i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 18 december 2008. i would like to wish you all, ladies and gentlemen, a happy new year - a happy 2009 which will hopefully bring us further on the road to european unity. may we succeed in promoting peace in the world. i can now make a statement on this.
i am not going to go into detail. the conference of presidents has asked me to make a statement on the events in the middle east. the debate will take place on wednesday afternoon, in the presence of the president of the foreign ministers' council, mr schwarzenberg, the czech foreign minister. i'm bringing this up because it wasn't clear. we have made a great effort and have found a great willingness on his part - although he has to travel to south africa on the same day - to be with us, albeit for a limited time. i think this is a good opportunity to thank the czech presidency very warmly for this. i am not going to go into detail. as we gather here for a plenary session at the beginning of this new year, people are dying again in the middle east. i cannot help but feel - and i think most of us do - that when i look at the television images, a bitter memory of "déjà vu" comes to mind. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my deep regret at the escalation of the conflict between israel and hamas in gaza. i want to make it very clear that it is not acceptable that the suffering of the population continues in such a way that violence continues and that now united nations personnel are being targeted. how far must the spiral of violence continue before insight and reason prevail? there must be an immediate end to the violence on both sides. it is totally unacceptable and must be strongly criticised that hamas is firing rockets at israeli cities. and we must not forget that it was hamas that ended the ceasefire. but the response must not ignore the proportionality of the means. all people in the middle east have equal dignity. the inalienable right of a state to protect itself does not justify acts of violence which primarily affect the civilian population. the people of gaza need help urgently. the dignity of a palestinian is the same as that of an israeli or a european or an american - all people on this earth are equal. we must not allow the humanitarian situation to deteriorate. we must be prepared, as political leaders, to make a determined contribution to finding a lasting solution to the spiral of violence, beyond the short-term situation. the reduction of security to purely military aspects is, in my view, doomed to failure. there can therefore be no purely military solution to the middle east problem. we must finally reach a political solution. this means, first and foremost, learning from the failure of the previous approach. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i have been in contact over the last few days by telephone with the israeli president, mr peres, with the prime minister of the palestinian authority, mr salam fayad, with the president of the knesset, mrs dalia itzik, and of course with the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, mr javier solana, who has been in the region for a very long time. i have also been in contact with the vice-presidents of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, because i am currently chairing the euro-mediterranean assembly, namely the president of the jordanian parliament, abdel hadi al-majali, the president of the italian chamber of deputies, gianfranco fini, and the president of the moroccan parliament, mustapha mansouri. in all these discussions i have always made it clear that the european parliament fully supports the demands which the council of ministers has made for the european union and which were confirmed by the united nations security council resolution of 8 january. it is sad that this legally binding security council resolution, which the americans abstained from, thus making the resolution possible, is being ignored by both sides in the conflict, israel and hamas. there must be an immediate and permanent ceasefire. this ceasefire must be achieved with the mediation of egypt and the involvement of all actors. immediate unhindered access for humanitarian aid must be ensured and the united nations work and relief agency (unrwa) must be enabled to continue its humanitarian activities without hindrance. and i would add, not just for three hours a day! if the humanitarian organizations and the united nations have to stop their work because the belligerents do not respect their neutrality, we have reached a low point in international law and humanity that we cannot accept. the third requirement is the intensification of the peace process. the only viable basis for lasting peace is and remains a two-state solution with israel and palestine as sovereign states within secure borders. the european union, together with the members of the quartet, the moderate arab partners and all parties to the conflict under the auspices of the united nations, must bring about a rapid resumption of peace negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must now ask ourselves what method we have used to date in the so-called peace process. despite the known difficult environment and the scarcely tangible progress, it was possible to assume until a few weeks ago that we were in a negotiating logic. the international community, and above all the european union, has supported these negotiations with a strong commitment and has helped financially to create the conditions for the establishment of a palestinian state. but was this commitment politically strong enough? that is a question we must ask ourselves. we are now back to the logic of escalation. understandably, in times of crisis management, people tend to think short-term. we need an immediate ceasefire and a complete withdrawal of israeli forces, as called for by the un security council. the experience of the past decades has taught us that peace in the middle east cannot come from the region alone. but it will not be possible without reconciliation between the warring parties. the international community must therefore be prepared to promote peace in the middle east more than ever before, so that the bitter events of the past few decades do not remain bitter experiences for decades to come. international troops can and must help to secure a ceasefire. we must therefore make every effort to ensure that the egyptian-french plan to set up an international mechanism to secure the borders of gaza is a real success, and of course the smuggling of arms and rockets into the gaza area must be stopped as a matter of priority. the european union had already indicated its readiness to engage in this way in its action strategy paper at the beginning of the annapolis process. but let me emphasize one thing in particular: the deployment of european and international security forces must not guarantee the silencing of arms in the short term. it must have a clear political objective, namely to build the confidence needed to conclude the peace talks by guaranteeing security for israelis and palestinians alike. this means that with a possible use of troops, which only makes sense with a robust mandate, the political influence on all sides is increased to reach a peaceful solution. we need more than the repeated commitment to peace, which we have so often expressed as a goal in the past. what we need is the willingness not just to seek peace but to make it happen before the decades of hatred escalate further and cause a conflagration. in conclusion, i would like to recall that 2008 was the european year of intercultural dialogue. i would remind you of how much we, as the european parliament, have worked to make this year a year of hope and to put political emphasis on the fact that the clash of cultures is not a law of nature. the global reaction to the war in gaza shows how quickly efforts at intercultural dialogue can be derailed when overtaken by the reality of the images we see in the news every day. worse still, this reality plays into the hands of extremists and fundamentalists whose aim is not peace but to drive the spiral of confrontation. violence creates violence. this insight cannot be repeated often enough. only dialogue and negotiation can provide a way out of the crisis. both are not ends in themselves, but must be courageously pursued with the aim that the people of israel and palestine can live in real security, in peace and with respect for their dignity. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 8 january 2009 in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday:as mrs andrikienė cannot be present this evening to present her report on the development of the un human rights council and the role of the eu, this report will be voted on without debate on wednesday as planned. tuesday: no change. wednesday:the green group has asked for the debate on the situation in gaza to be closed by tabling motions for resolutions. i call mr cohn-bendit to speak on the grounds of the motion.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the decision of the conference of presidents is a very wise one. we have heard a statement today by the president of parliament which, if i understood it correctly, was supported by all sides of the house. that is an important basis and an important statement by parliament. we shall receive a great deal of information in the coming days: from meetings held by the committee on foreign affairs and the delegations, from the communications we receive from the council presidency and the commission. we are therefore not in a position to produce a resolution today which will really reflect in detail the state of affairs as it stood on thursday. i spent two days last week on the border with gaza and i have seen a great deal of suffering on both sides. i believe that a ceasefire alone is not enough. the ceasefire must be linked to the fact that in the future arms smuggling into gaza will no longer be possible. the details of the negotiations with egypt today are particularly important. we should not destroy that by a resolution which may be emotionally motivated. i therefore support the decision of the conference of presidents.
(parliament adopted the resolution) the deadlines are as follows: motions for resolutions tonight, 8 p.m., amendments and joint motions for resolutions wednesday, 10 p.m. thursday: no change in the number of votes.
i would ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position. you can continue this later. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council.
the commission has certainly taken note of this and will take it into account. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
you will of course receive an answer.
the difficulty of all this is evident from the time you have taken to speak. you have exceeded the speaking time by 50 per cent. the debate is on wednesday afternoon.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have today the result of many discussions and negotiations, some of which were very emotional, and we shall be able to vote on it tomorrow. we didn't make it easy. the negotiations with the council and the commission were a struggle to find the right solutions. we have found that science does not always provide clear evidence to show the only right way. further scientific monitoring will be necessary to evaluate the impact of this new legislation. first of all, therefore, i would like to thank all those who contributed to this good result with their constructive proposals, my colleagues in this parliament, the european commission, the french presidency of the council - sorry that the czech presidency of the council is not here tonight - but also thank the staff. the directive on the sustainable use of plant protection products, which is now in force, is a major step towards greater common ground in european environmental and consumer protection. sustainability as the guiding principle of our european agriculture guarantees healthy food and a healthy environment. for the first time, the handling of plant protection products is harmonised at european level. the principle of "as much as necessary, as little as possible" requires a comprehensive, sound knowledge. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. they must be used in the right way to work properly: at the right time, in the right medication, in the right dose. this includes considering whether chemical plant protection is necessary or whether mechanical measures are more appropriate. the choice of the best technology and proven planting equipment protects the environment and the user and contributes to the success of the farm by producing good harvests. member states shall set out in their national action plans measures to reduce the use of plant protection products. the reduction of risk is the ultimate objective. the application of the general principles of integrated pest management will be made mandatory throughout the european union from 2014. the implementation of the water framework directive is a top priority. member states shall establish buffer zones for bodies of water which must be adapted to the soil and geographical conditions. the use of plant protection products in the municipal area and in protected areas shall be minimised or, where appropriate, eliminated. there are rules for the inspection of equipment and regular maintenance intervals are established. risk reduction includes the provision of sound training and education to professional users in the field of pesticide use. when selling plant protection products, private users who are not specifically trained and who may cause damage by improper use in private gardens must be instructed and informed by a well-trained seller about the use and the risks. the directive brings together the different rules that have been in place in the member states at a high level. the measures envisaged are in the interests of the environment, consumers and users. the same conditions throughout the european union guarantee the same safety standards and production conditions. we agree that substances which have been shown to be harmful to health should not be authorized. but a ban must be based on scientific knowledge and not on political dogma. and you have to look at exposure, because with pesticides, like with a lot of things in life, the dose makes the poison. one headache pill is a blessing, but if we take 20, it's dangerous, life-threatening. we have reached a good compromise. it reconciles environmental and economic policy, and i hope that tomorrow we will be able to make our demands clearer in a clear vote. i would like to make a technical point: there is an error in article 14 (4). reference is made to the internet portal referred to in article 4 (3); but there is no paragraph 3 in article 4. we should set that right.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the agreement is a milestone, a milestone for european health protection, consumer protection, but also for the environment and the economy. first of all, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. i would also like to thank the staff involved, the commission, you, mrs vassiliou and mr dimas, and the french presidency of the council, and also thank the colleagues who have not been intimidated by the figures which are totally exaggerated by industry. we have adopted 200 amendments in the european parliament at first reading and have tried to improve the common position decisively by agreeing to this. with the clear cut-off criteria, we end an unscientific, endless number game, the hocus-pocus of limitation. no one can quantify the risk. that is why security can only be achieved with a clear prohibition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the cut-off for pbt substances is a successful environmental protection measure. i am particularly pleased that we have succeeded in establishing the first clear criteria for endocrine substances and i trust the commission's responsibility to follow up with the other criteria over the next four years. i am particularly pleased that the european parliament has succeeded in ensuring that bee protection is included as an admission criterion for the first time. leading scientists in france and germany have estimated the economic value of pollinators at 150 billion euros a year, and the damage of up to 310 billion euros if we lost bees as pollinators. i therefore ask that the amendments which have been tabled be rejected tomorrow. you would water down that compromise. this is a compromise which the council has already approved. it has been customary not to try to attack a common compromise again. but i'm also glad that we've been able to work together to improve immuno- and neurotoxicity. because in a europe that claims to be a knowledge society, we cannot afford to have the development of the child's brain permanently impaired, especially by these neurotoxic substances. we are also very clear in our support of harmonization, but without restricting the rights of the member states, and we leave them flexibility in the procedures for authorization. the triple legal basis also shows the high value we attach to health, and we have made the exceptions to the ban very restrictive, for example by linking them to a substitution plan, so that the exception does not become the rule here, but the opposite. i am also glad that we have succeeded in enshrining animal welfare in this regulation and that we have been able to establish more transparency, although i would have expected more courage from the commission. i hope we can gain more access to the application protocols and make the transition to the electronic field pass. it is not only a milestone for environmental and consumer protection in europe, i think it is also a great moment for europe. it is therefore a great moment for europe, because this decision to abandon the use of highly dangerous pesticides is the first and only one in the world, and we can thus put the european union on the fast track to breakthrough health protection and make europe a world leader. this regulation also adds value for citizens who know that the european union has stood above all on the side of consumers and health and has not bowed to industry. it is also a win-win for industry, which will have incentives to innovate and produce better and safer products in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i was going to speak on mrs klaas's report, but i now take the opportunity to reply to the honourable member. you should read the agreement. what you have just said is that we have tabled the amendment so that the endocrine substances will not be on the market for another four years. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. please look at this again. perhaps you can withdraw your amendment tomorrow because it runs counter to what you have just said. what the pesticide industry wants is for us to not set standards here. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal. that is the question and nothing else. we have taken all the measures we can to protect agriculture wherever it is. the danish example is particularly striking: in the course of twenty years, without any loss to agriculture, it has been possible to halve the use of pesticides, to double the quality of water and to halve the quantities of pesticide residues. i would like to thank mrs klaß for her work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we hope, however, that this will encourage member states to enter into competition with each other to see who is most prepared to take plant protection and sustainable management seriously. and of course we would have liked to have had more rights for the inhabitants of the agricultural areas adjacent to it. i hope that the landmark court decision of the uk supreme court, which clearly empowers and supports citizens in their right to get this information, can also be used to give more citizens across europe similar access in their member states. i also hope that we have already made a small step towards greater transparency.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we shall be voting tomorrow on new regulations on plant protection, a subject which is arousing a great deal of emotion in the population. this was also reflected in the discussions in parliament. we all want fresh, healthy food from the region at affordable prices without dangerous residues of pesticides. the result achieved in the trilogue creates the conditions for this. the new plant protection regulation is a major step forward in the protection of consumers and health. however, in the definition of the exclusion criteria, scientific criteria were again given preference over political dogmas. the result of the trilogue is a huge step forward compared with the result of our parliament's first reading. the commission will no longer be concerned with nearly 80% of all active substances, but only those which pose a risk to human health or the environment, and this on a scientific basis. this will ensure that there are enough plant protection products available in the future to ensure sustainable farming. but the substances that are really dangerous are also being banned. the commission has already proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. in these zones, member states must then, in principle, mutually recognise their licences. the new plant protection product regulation brings the long-awaited and justified harmonisation also to the field of plant protection products. we have a uniformly high level of protection without jeopardizing sustainable agricultural production within europe. we are now getting a real single market, a level playing field and a major advance in health care. this is a great success for consumers and farmers. thank you, thank you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. plant protection products have been and remain essential tools of the agricultural economy. farmers need a minimum choice of plant protection products, because it is about protecting the native cultural landscape, high-quality food and the conservation of resources. we have too often discussed chemicals on a very irrational level. but to get reasonable results, we must think and act rationally. the effects of parliament's original position would have been fatal: a broad ban on pesticides, thus lowering agricultural yields and ultimately increasing food prices. i am therefore glad that a compromise has been reached in the trilogue negotiations which is still acceptable. it is welcome that we have retained the three-zone system, albeit with considerable exceptions for the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not a one-way street. in addition to acceptable compromises, we should not go ahead with a definitive definition of endocrine disrupting substances, but actually give the european commission four years to come up with a scientifically sound definition. otherwise we are overreaching the precautionary principle here. i regret that we are not allowing an impact assessment on the agreement that has just been reached.
please!
member of the commission. - the madam president, i would like to thank all those who have spoken in today's debate for their very constructive contributions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full, and that the member states are able to take part in the implementation of the community's financial instruments. the national action plans will also require member states to monitor the use of pesticides that have caused particular problems at times and to set targets for reducing the use of some of them. this is a major step forward which, in addition to protecting the health of european citizens and the environment, will bring economic benefits due to reduced costs to national health systems, and another benefit will be the reduced use of pesticides resulting from this legislation. in addition to the national action plans, the proposed compromise package contains a number of other important aspects. the precautionary principle must be respected. in the context of integrated pest management, other non-chemical plant protection methods shall be given priority. the protection of areas and persons passing through is strengthened. in particular, national action plans may include provisions on the information of persons who may be exposed to moving spray clouds, and areas to be sprayed by air should not be adjacent to populated areas. all distributors of pesticides, not just those selling to professional users, will ensure that some of their staff have a specific certificate of competence, which will of course be mutually recognisable, to provide information on pesticides and to be available to customers for advice. only certain categories of small distributors will be exempted from this obligation. as regards the air spray ban, a compromise solution was found to deal with the requests for exemption. the exemption will follow a two-step procedure. first, the preparation of a general aerial spraying plan, which will be subject to explicit approval by the authorities, and then the submission of specific aerial spraying applications, where appropriate, which will be subject to the conditions for approval of the general plan. in conclusion, i would like to add that the commission is satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations and is therefore able to accept the proposed compromise amendments in full.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you all for your very fruitful participation in this very interesting debate. the commission has attached particular importance to this file and i have been personally committed to the highest level of public health which it seeks to achieve. there have been long and difficult discussions during the trialogue which the rapporteur has steered with great dedication and skill, and i thank her for that. the commission supported the common position and can now support the proposal as it emerges from the second reading. all the innovative aspects of the proposal have been retained, in particular the approval criteria, which will ensure that dangerous substances which pose a high risk to public health are eliminated or substituted by safer alternatives, improved mutual recognition, and the substitution of some products by safer alternatives. let me reply, however, to some of the comments that have been made here. according to the commission’s estimate, only 4% of the substances currently on the market would disappear because they are endocrine disruptors and only 2% because they are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to production. the total number of active substances which are currently on the market and which possibly would not be approved under the new regulation is expected to be less than 25 substances. this evaluation has been confirmed by a report from the swedish chemical agency and is also in line with the revised impact assessment from the uk pesticides safety directorate. moreover, i would like to point out that the new criteria will apply to substances already approved only upon renewal of their approval, and for most of them the renewal date is 2016. the industry will therefore have ample time to develop other safer substances. i would also like to make reference to some comments made about imported food. let me remind you that, as from 2008, we have the regulation on maximum residue levels which is fully applicable. if an active substance is not approved for use in plant reduction products in the eu, the maximum residue level for this substance is set at the level of detection. this mrl is valid for eu production, but also for imported food and feed. there are, however, several reasons why an active substance could not be approved in the eu, and the possible risk to consumers is only one of them. others can be linked to environmental issues or the protection of workers, which fall under the sovereignty of third countries where the pesticide is used. in these circumstances the use of the pesticide could not be acceptable for us, but the treated crops would not necessarily pose a risk to eu consumers. the third country which wants to export commodities treated with such substances to the eu may therefore ask for an import tolerance as long as it can submit data proving that there is no risk to human health from the consumption of these commodities and that these data are favourably evaluated by efsa and formally adopted in eu legislation. this is the position regarding imported goods. coming back to the directive which we are hopefully about to adopt, the commission considers the final compromise to be properly balanced, to achieve the objectives of health and environmental production, as well as to ensure the availability of pesticides to farmers. we now look forward to the formalisation of the second-reading agreement. this is certainly a very good way for the european parliament and the council to start a new year, and good for our citizens as it benefits their health. it is also, we believe, beneficial to our farmers as it ensures their own production through specific measures, such as the promotion of safer products. what was achieved is important. it was achieved by all of us together and serves as an excellent example of how interinstitutional cooperation can directly benefit our citizens.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today, with the help of state-of-the-art analytics, we can detect a piece of sugar cube in lake constance. but we also have to ask ourselves how we deal with this new knowledge, what we do with it. we now need objective risk assessments that strike a balance between legitimate health and environmental needs and legitimate economic and food security concerns, including in a global context. the questions - and i am sure that the honourable members have asked them - have not, in my view, been adequately answered by the commission. it's not enough to say that four substances are dropping or that two substances are dropping, and that there are only 25 substances. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we need to evaluate. the commission must now evaluate the impact of this new legislation in depth so that we know what the ultimate impact will be. we must continue to monitor this, because scientific knowledge is constantly evolving. the compromise reached will lead to a reorientation of european plant protection policy. it brings more pan-european action together and calls for targeted action by member states to guarantee the sustainable use of plant protection products. i am grateful to the rapporteur for her support. we have managed to find a good compromise from different starting points. i wish for the new year more positive thinking. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i too would like to thank you for the lively debate. i can only say once again: i am sticking to it, it is a milestone for environmental and consumer protection, and above all it is a great moment for europe. because europe is being put on the fast track. europe is showing that it is leading the world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to comply with the commitments it has made in the past. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the ban on these highly dangerous substances makes them illegal in europe. that is to say, if we have imports - let us take fruit and vegetables - then those imports must of course comply with european legislation, namely the residue regulation. if the residue test finds substances pesticides that have been banned in europe, the product is illegal. this means that bananas from costa rica, which are treated with carcinogens and which are then banned in our country, are also illegal in the european union. so this is very clearly clarified by including the mrl regulation. so there is no reason to continue to create a climate of panic and fear! i can only point out once again - thankfully the commissioner has already pointed this out - that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the first study by the psd said that 80% of pesticides are disappearing from the market. in the meantime, this number has been considerably reduced. unfortunately, you did not say a word about this correction of the psd study. so please stop this fear-mongering and mood-making! let us really celebrate this success, which we hope we are all achieving here for the benefit of the citizens of europe, for the environment, for health protection. (the president cut the speaker off)
rapporteur. − madam president, i and the commissioner both explained the situation very clearly. if you do not listen – or perhaps you do not want to hear that we have solved the problem because it does not fit in with your campaign against this regulation – then i am at a loss! but i will state again that the problem is solved. in the european union you cannot market a substance that is not allowed to be marketed in the european union. full stop.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the continuing delay and your answer, madam commissioner, are unacceptable. because time is of the essence. urban transport plays a central role in the context of climate change. it is responsible for about 70% of all greenhouse gases in cities. only with a different transport policy will the eu be able to achieve its own climate objectives. the greatest potential lies in cities, where 90% of car journeys are less than six kilometres - distances that are ideal for switching to rail, bus, bicycle and walking. i hope the commission has taken advantage of the delay to reflect on how the eu can effectively help the states and cities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we greens want the eu co-financing to be allocated in an environmentally friendly way. so far, 60% of eu funds in the transport sector are used for road projects, only 20% for public transport and rail. we want at least 40% for rail, as parliament has decided in my report on the first railway package. secondly, we want to grant eu funds only if cities can present a sustainable mobility plan. and thirdly, we want to increase road safety by introducing a general speed limit of 30 km/h with the possibility for cities to designate higher speeds for certain roads. this is not only good for the climate, it also reduces the number of accidents, because every year 40 000 people die on europe's roads.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the barroso commission had announced that one of its major policy objectives was to abolish european overregulation. the proposals you have just made give the impression that you are over-regulating. the hearing of the ppe group last week made it clear that there are serious concerns about the extent to which you are now interfering with the competences of the member states. what is on the table now has the smell of over-regulation, and we cannot call that good. it is true that we must find a balance between the development possibilities of public and private broadcasting. but it also means - especially in the digital age - that public service broadcasting, which stands for quality, for cultural diversity, for cultural and social context, must have opportunities for development in the digital age. we are also asking for this in the context of the lisbon strategy. but if you don't allow public broadcasting to do that, then you're turning it into a dinosaur. he won't be able to develop well. when we think about our economic and financial crisis, we all understood that markets need to be regulated. social and environmental regulation, that is not a position against markets, but for fair markets and that is regulated markets. this is also true for the relationship in which private and public law can develop in the future if we want to succeed in the digital world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. public service broadcasting is more than an economic factor. i was in brussels last week for the epp hearing. the importance of information and diversity in european culture and education was recognized. if 22 member states are against revision or tightening because we have different frameworks and different markets, then it is wrong to want a large-scale administration, a cumbersome examination procedure such as this compulsory ex-ante test or a european governance with a voluminous bureaucratic design. there are already control bodies for public broadcasting: the broadcasting councils. we monitor the adaptation to technological change, we monitor the measures to ensure fair competition. i am one of them, as a representative of the european union at the hessian broadcasting corporation. our independence is guaranteed by law. we are again, and quite rightly, controlled by the public. that's how effective media policy works.
in writing. with this report, we are sending a clear signal for the eu to be closer to its citizens and are proposing concrete steps to make this goal a reality. we call on all eu institutions to make dialogue with civil society an important cross-cutting issue in their political work. people only support the eu if they are informed about policy plans and activities and can participate in decisions, for example by consulting. we have seen the negative consequences of deliberately disseminated misinformation on european integration in the rejection of the lisbon treaty in ireland. we must prevent this in future by means of an offensive information and dialogue policy. this is particularly true of the council and the governments of the member states, which should do more to improve information about the eu. access to the documents of all eu institutions must be facilitated and improved so that every citizen can get an idea of their work. our aim is to build a strong european civil society as a basic prerequisite for the development of a european public space. we therefore call for the necessary framework conditions to be created, in other words, a statute for european associations and thus the necessary infrastructure for active citizens at european level.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. before i come to my report, i would like to say once again that we have not acted correctly in our decision to debate own-initiative reports. when i see how the debates are going without dialogue, without controversy, without conflict , i do not feel that this is a parliamentary debate, and i hope that we will soon change that after the european elections. i would like to thank the members who are not here. we have worked very well together in the preparation of the report. i would also like to thank the commission and the secretariat of the committee. we have also gained a lot of new insights during the debate in committee. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection deliberately put the debate on implementation on the agenda relatively early, because the deadline for implementation by the member states was mid-to-late 2007, which is not very much time for a directive which represents an enormous, important part of the harmonisation. however, some member states have not managed to implement the directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it cannot therefore be assumed that they lack knowledge of european law. three member states have not yet implemented, four have implemented inadequately and insufficiently, and three member states have received communications from the commission which may lead to proceedings before the ecj. so that's a whole series of cases of poor implementation. we also found that in our hearing, but also that two countries have implemented with a lot of commitment and creativity, namely the uk and austria. so there is such a thing. the benefits of the internal market should also be in the interest of the member states. the aim of these directives should be to clarify consumer rights and to facilitate crossborder trade, to introduce reliable and fair rules and, of course, to increase legal certainty. the protection of citizens and consumers against fraudulent practices was a very important point for us as members. this applies not only to consumers but also to small businesses and traders. the commissioner said that the commission had already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive was implemented. we are also familiar with many examples, such as harassing advertising, misleading and aggressive business practices. we all know about the address book fraud, which is a widespread nuisance throughout europe. we know about lottery scams and much more. i would also like to thank the commission for its very consistent introduction of the new system of sweeps, of searches, in the case of airlines and advertising of ringtones. we hope that she will continue to work on it. we expect it to network more closely with the national bodies and, above all, to ensure that the blacklists are not hollowed out and that the sanctions are indeed dissuasive - a very important point for us meps. in conclusion, i would say that successful implementation requires cooperation between the member states and between national and european parliamentarians, and in the spirit of the lisbon treaty, which has just been mentioned, i would like to call for greater control by national parliamentarians over their national governments. these two laws would be a good place to start.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in july 2008, the european commission presented its proposal for a revision of the existing directive on undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits), laying the foundations for what we are discussing today. it was a very demanding timetable that we had to follow if we were to ensure that we could actually succeed in this parliamentary term in revising this ucits directive, which has been in existence in its original form since 1985. the objective of this reform was clearly to ensure that the competitiveness of the european fund industry is increased, that the fund industry is enabled to reduce its costs, to develop and exploit economies of scale, to ensure that every fund provider has effective access to all markets in the european union and that all this is done without reducing investor protection. on the contrary, we wanted to increase investor protection at the same time. we have therefore had a very demanding programme and i must say that it is indeed very commendable that, in cooperation with all the institutions involved, we have been able to complete this project in such a short time. investment funds offer retail investors the opportunity to invest small amounts of capital in a diversified portfolio that is professionally managed. in the past, european ucits have already proved to be a great success story. in addition to being sold and offered in europe, collective investment undertakings are also exported to a significant extent to regions outside the european union - in particular to south america and asia - where they enjoy a high reputation. the commission has already adapted the ucits directive twice in the past and has been very cautious in its approach to the revision. it has carried out a consultation process, produced a green paper and a white paper and held intensive exchanges with all market participants. in total, the commission has proposed six measures to help achieve the objectives of this review, as mentioned at the outset. these include, firstly, the introduction of a management company passport; secondly, the facilitation of cross-border fund mergers to ensure that the number of funds offered in the european union is reduced and thus the imbalance we see between europe and, above all, the usa can be overcome; thirdly, the possibility of so-called master-feeder structures, i.e. the possibility for one fund to invest in another master fund and have the investments managed through that master fund; fourthly, the development of a short, i.e. only two-page information document containing the most important information for the small investor, the so-called key investor information; fifthly, the facilitation of the notification procedure, the so-called notification, to ensure that when a fund is de facto authorised in another country, it is not necessary to ask for authorisation and to conclude a new cooperation agreement. the financial crisis has also caused the fund industry to lose its edge. there have been a number of outflows and in this context it is crucial that we reach a decision as soon as possible to ensure that the credibility of the funds is strengthened and that the confidence of retail investors in this investment instrument is not lost. i would like to make two final remarks: firstly, the commission has set up a group headed by jacques de la rosière to deal with the question of supervision in europe. i hope that the conclusions drawn and the proposals developed there will eventually be taken up by the commission and incorporated here. secondly, we are currently seeing, particularly in crossborder fund mergers, that there are differences in the tax treatment of crossborder and national mergers. we also call on the commission to ensure that there is equality of treatment and not discrimination.
member of the commission. − mr president, once again i express my appreciation and admiration for the efficient handling of this file by parliament. it is a result of a remarkably quick consensus. as has already been mentioned, this is not yet the end of the story – much still needs to be done at level 2. member states will also have the task of transposing this new set of rules – level 1 and level 2 – altogether before the summer of 2011. arrangements for cooperation between national supervisors will have to be put in place. these are key to the good functioning of the management company passport. i can assure you that the commission will play its role in order to facilitate this progress and to put these badly needed changes to work in the eu fund industry.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i agree with the commissioner that we are not, in fact, at the end of the road. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because we find that markets change at a galloping rate, and if we are always lagging behind, we will not achieve our objectives or only partially. the debate today has shown that we have broad cross-party support for what has been negotiated here as a compromise. i accept that astrid lulling has a slightly different view of things here. i am quite confident that the future will show that their concern that the financial centre of luxembourg could be damaged as one of the central investment fund centres in europe will not be confirmed, but that on the contrary this new ucits directive also offers opportunities for this financial centre. pervenche berès is quite right: the point is to finally create a real internal market for the investment fund industry. this sector is an example of the fact that we are talking about the single market, but in many cases we do not have it yet. this is crucial. it is clear that this will lead to a very new and very demanding cooperation between the supervisory bodies. but we're gonna have to deal with this anyway. the supervisory bodies must also cooperate much more closely, in a more trusting and constructive manner than in the past in other areas. if the ucits directive exerts a gentle pressure to make this happen, all i can say is all the better. the level 2 measures the commissioner has mentioned are numerous and must be tackled in a short time. that's true, but we all have a stake in making this happen. but that's not all. the industry itself has to do some housework. the commission and we in parliament have deliberately refrained from discussing the issue of fund processing at all, because we rely on the industry to keep its word and to deal with this issue on its own without legislative pressure. she's been working on it for quite some time, and we still don't have anything concrete on the table. i hope that will be the case soon, otherwise we shall be forced to take action again in the foreseeable future. finally, i would like to thank not only the commission but also the council for its cooperation and active support, as well as all the representatives of the other parties, in particular pervenche berès, donata gottardi, jean-paul gauzès and astrid lulling, who has shown herself today to be a very controversial representative of their interests, but who was quite ready to support them where we could find compromises. thank you very much.
the next item is the formal sitting and the debate on the 'ten years of the euro'. (film contribution) the european council in brussels in december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, expressed its concern at the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east, and called on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is resolved. on 1 january 2009, our currency, the euro, turned ten years old. we are celebrating today in the european parliament one of the most important historic decisions ever taken by the european union. the creation of the euro was a logical development in an economically increasingly cohesive european union, to strengthen the common market and to simplify trade within the internal market. but when the currencies of 11 sovereign nations were replaced by a single currency ten years ago, there was much scepticism about the success of the planned single currency. it took courage and determination to put it into practice. ten years on, we can see that not only is the euro as trusted as the currencies previously used in the eurozone countries, but it has also undoubtedly brought numerous benefits to the people and businesses of the european union. the eurozone has become a rock of macroeconomic stability. given the weight of the eurozone economy and the fact that most of its trade is internal, the eurozone is proving to be far better equipped than previously were the member states with their national currencies to withstand external economic shocks. in the last months of the global financial crisis, the euro has proved to be a crucial factor of stability: the single currency has saved us from the worst consequences of the most significant financial crisis since the 1930s. without the european central bank and the european system of central banks as stabilizing factors, the situation in the european union would have been much worse last autumn. let us look at ireland, a country that was particularly hard hit by the financial crisis. membership of the monetary union has saved ireland from an even greater crisis. the european council in madrid in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european union's economic and monetary union. it means being part of a 'union with a common purpose'. like members of a family, all members of the eurozone talk together and decide on the best course of action for the benefit of each and all. but the creation of the euro was not just a decision with economic and financial implications. it has sent a very clear signal that the european union is capable of making far-reaching choices to build a common prosperous future. today, the single currency is regarded by many citizens in the euro area as one of the most positive outcomes of european unification. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is the only way for the euro to remain a factor of stability in the future and a factor of stability in the face of the turbulence in the world. today, well over half the member states of the european union have adopted the euro. a few days ago we welcomed slovakia as the 16th member of the eurozone. i am confident that we will be even more members in the celebrations of the next round of birthdays of the euro! the aim must be that one day all the member states of the european union will be part of our common currency on the basis of the stability criteria. i am convinced that such a gradual enlargement would contribute to the strengthening of the eurozone as a whole and would also be an expression of a common peaceful european future, especially for the young people in the european union. today we have with us the former president of france, valery giscard d'estaing. we welcome him. he is one of the architects of our common currency, along with former german chancellor helmut schmidt, former luxembourg prime minister pierre werner and others. i would like to welcome valery giscard d'estaing. (applause from the centre) i agree with helmut kohl, who, with françois mitterrand and jacques delors and others - we just saw jacques santer in the film - helped to finally introduce the euro, when he said in 1998: "a currency is, of course, a means of payment. but a currency is also much more than a means of payment. it has something to do with a piece of cultural identity and it's a measure of political stability. the commission shall: and if you imagine what it means that here in the european union, with all the intelligence, creativity and color of this continent, with all its difficulties, that millions of people have a common currency, that's a great thing. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my sincere thanks to all the architects and pioneers of the euro, and of course in particular to the european central bank, with its current president, jean-claude trichet, and its predecessor, willem duisenberg, who died much too soon, for their historic achievement. the value of the european central bank cannot be overestimated. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we met him last night, and he's also attending a colloquium. the european parliament and its committee responsible, the economic and monetary committee, led by its then chairman, karl von wogau, and his successor, christa randzio-plath, have also contributed as the driving force behind this historic project over the years leading up to the creation of the single currency, starting with the monetary serpent. the same applies to the economic and monetary committee today, led by mr pervenche berès, to whom we owe the inspiration for this celebration today. since the creation of the euro ten years ago, the european central bank and the eurogroup have been increasingly in touch with the european parliament. i would like to thank the presidents of the two institutions, prime minister jean-claude juncker, in his capacity as president of the eurogroup, and president of the european central bank, jean-claude trichet, for the good cooperation with the european parliament. on the occasion of its tenth birthday, we wish our common currency, the euro, many more successful years for a good future for our european continent.
president of the european central bank. - mr president, mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour and pleasure for me to take part in this ceremony celebrating one of europe's major achievements, the euro. jean monnet, the founding father of europe, once said: "when an idea corresponds to the needs of the time, it ceases to belong to the men who invented it and is stronger than those who are in charge of it", and he added, "there are no premature ideas, there are opportune moments that you must know how to wait for". for decades, the idea of a single european currency had been a mere idea shared by a few. others, many more, felt that it could not be realized or was doomed to failure. today, the single currency is a reality for 329 million of our fellow citizens in europe. the creation of the euro will one day be seen as a decisive step on the long road to an ever closer union among the peoples of europe. i cannot help thinking of our founding fathers, whom we saw a moment ago, visionaries to whom we owe the european union, robert schuman, walter hallstein, alcide de gasperi, pierre werner, sicco mansholt, paul-henri spaak. i am thinking also of the statesmen, heads of state and government who were determined, convinced and courageous europeans and who are represented today by president valéry giscard d'estaing. without them, there would be no euro. since the introduction of the euro, our citizens have enjoyed a level of price stability that only a few euro area countries had achieved before. this price stability benefits all european citizens, protects incomes and savings, helps to reduce financing costs, encourages investment, job creation and prosperity in the medium and long term. the single currency is a dynamic factor for the european economy. it has improved price transparency, strengthened trade and promoted economic and financial integration. the last months have witnessed another wave of the euro. the financial crisis shows that in turbulent times it is better to be on a large and safe ship than in a small boat. would we have been able to act so rapidly, decisively and coherently in europe without the single currency? would we have been able to save many individual national currencies from the consequences of the financial crisis? we can be proud of the reactions of europe's parliaments, governments and central banks. together we have shown that europe is capable of making decisions even under the most difficult circumstances. (beifall) i know. we owe the historic success of the euro, not only to the determination and perseverance of visionary leaders - and i mention them - we owe it also to the effective interplay between european institutions. the european parliament played a crucial role at the pioneering stage. parliament was the first institution in europe to make proposals for a single currency, back in 1962. in the past 10 years, since the establishment of the ecb, our institutions have maintained a very close and fruitful dialogue. this dialogue has involved over 50 hearings of the members of the executive board of the ecb before this parliament and the committees mentioned by the president. the dialogue between parliament and the ecb is very important in terms of accountability, allowing the ecb to explain its decisions and actions to the general public through their elected representatives. during its first years of existence, the euro had to face three major trials: the establishment of a sound and credible central bank, the creation of a stable new currency and inspiring confidence. these challenges were successfully overcome and the euro is firmly established today. this is a time for celebration and, as i said, i am very moved. but this is no time for complacency. current challenges are pressing and new challenges will arise. the continued success of emu depends on how these challenges are addressed. i would like to mention three of them. firstly, the financial crisis. the crisis has revealed fundamental weaknesses in the global financial system. we are playing a very active part in the global efforts to address these weaknesses and redesign the regulatory and institutional framework. secondly, monetary union. the solidity of the single currency rests on two pillars: a monetary policy geared towards price stability and a set of sound economic policies which are very much in defence of the eurogroup, mr prime minister. the particular challenges on the economic front include the firm and credible implementation of the stability and growth pact, constant efforts to make our economies more productive and dynamic, and the avoidance of major competitive divergences within the euro area. thirdly, the enlargement. when we started out 10 years ago, we were 11 countries. we are now 16 countries. this says a lot about our historic endeavor. handling enlargement in the best possible way is a very inspiring and demanding challenge for all of us, particularly for the executive board and the governing council of the ecb. the euro is an historic achievement. what matters most today is our responsibility for the future. new challenges are arising. if these challenges are faced with the utmost lucidity and audacity, they can generate the powerful ideas which jean monnet referred to and which have advanced us so far on the path of stability and prosperity in europe.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the republic, mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, over the last fifty years europe has often demonstrated its ability to formulate great ambitions and also to develop the spirit and determination necessary to implement, in a consistent manner, the ambitions it cherishes. the european union itself is the best example of this, as is the internal market, as is enlargement, that is to say, the reunion between european geography and european history, as is the economic and monetary union, whose tenth anniversary we are celebrating today. the road to economic and monetary union and the introduction of our single currency was a long one, and the genesis of economic and monetary union, with the initial impetus given by the werner report as early as 1970, proves this. the long genesis of the monetary snake, the european monetary system, the creation of the ecu in 1979, the delors plan of 1989, the maastricht treaty of 1992, as well as the danish no and the french yes, which were called small at the time, not to mention the crisis of the european monetary system in 1993. this whole journey has not been without difficulties and bumps. many at the time were the critics of the single currency, both in political and academic circles, not to mention an impressive number of central bankers, who believed that economic and monetary union could not or should not be achieved and that, if it were to be achieved anyway, the single currency would, in the end, be weak and without any future. it is important to me to take the opportunity of the tenth anniversary of this landmark event in european integration to pay tribute, in my turn, to those men who created the euro, such as pierre werner, helmut kohl, françois mitterrand, jacques delors, valéry giscard d'estaing and others. i would like to congratulate them once again on their vision, their determination and their unwavering commitment to europe. the men i mentioned and many others who followed them could not have imagined the rapid success of their political project. since 1 january this year, 16 member states have been participating in economic and monetary union and the euro is the currency of almost 330 million european citizens. the euro has thus become the most tangible sign of european integration. the euro is a tangible sign of stability, recognised throughout the world. it protects its citizens from the worst consequences of the economic crisis. after ten years, it is clear that the euro is an undeniable success. but anniversaries are only worth celebrating if they are bridges to the future, because it is also clear that, despite the collective indulgence in self-congratulation, the real tests for the cohesion and coherence of the euro area are still ahead of us. 2009 will be an extremely difficult year for the euro area economies and for european citizens, and there will be many challenges to be faced, both internally and externally. internally, euro area governments will need to act together to contain the effects of the economic crisis and to invest in the structural foundations of the economy to build a bridge to the post-crisis period. exceptional situations call for exceptional measures. we must not lose sight of the fact that the protective screen that the euro has erected around our economies did not fall from the sky. euro area economies are better protected against adverse economic developments because membership of the euro area is a mark of quality certifying to its members a real capacity to implement prudent macroeconomic policies and policies geared towards sustainable growth and prosperity for its citizens. the protection afforded by the euro is therefore directly linked to our credibility, which is based on the ability to implement these policies there. this credibility is the foundation of the benefits of economic and monetary union and we will need to preserve it if we are to continue to enjoy the full benefits of the single currency. on the external front, we will have to draw political lessons from the international financial and economic crisis. there is a direct causal link between the current crisis, which originated in the united states, and the persistence of major global imbalances. the lack of adequate transparency, accountability and integrity in the financial sector was then a catalyst for the crisis. the restoration of stability to the global financial and real economy implies a thorough reform of the financial system, but also the elimination of the important imbalances in the mix between aggregate consumption and aggregate saving. this rebalancing requires the active collaboration of the major economies in america, asia and europe. however, despite significant progress, the international representation of the euro is still often too fragmented and national interests too often trump the common interest, preventing the euro area from fully assuming the political responsibility corresponding to its economic weight and from realising all the economic benefits of economic and monetary union. economic and monetary union is an economic project, but it is first and foremost a political project. we must therefore use the second decade of the euro to complete economic and monetary union by strengthening its political bodies at both internal and external levels.
member of the commission. - mr president of parliament, mr prime minister, mr president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten years after its launch, i am sure that i agree with the vast majority of this house in saying that as a european i am proud of the success of the euro. and i want to congratulate parliament on this initiative to commemorate the tenth anniversary of our single currency here today, in this chamber of the european parliament in strasbourg. the euro and economic and monetary union are indeed a clear success. the euro has brought many benefits to all its members over the past ten years and continues to do so in the midst of a deep economic and financial crisis. in the short space of a decade the euro has earned a well-deserved reputation for strength and stability. the euro is the second largest currency in the world and, thanks to its role in the international economy, is already comparable in some respects to the dollar as an instrument of trade and means of payment in international finance. but above all, the euro is part of the daily lives of almost 330 million people in 16 countries of the european union. they all carry, we carry in our pockets, this symbol of a shared european identity, because the euro is not only a currency but also a central element of our european project, which reminds us in a concrete way of the benefits derived from the integration process that began more than half a century ago. the euro provides us with low inflation and low interest rates, supported by a stability-oriented macroeconomic framework. the euro provides a clear boost to trade and investment between its member states. and the euro has facilitated the creation of 16 million jobs over the past ten years in the euro area - triple the figure for the previous decade. the euro has fostered financial integration and the development of the single market, it has protected euro area members against external shocks and it has been and remains a pole of stability not only for the european economy but for the world economy. the crisis is certainly a touchstone for the euro. but those who think that economic and monetary union is not prepared to deal with the consequences of this crisis are completely wrong. on the contrary, if the single currency did not exist, the adverse effects of the crisis would be much greater. many member states are now reportedly facing high volatility in their exchange rates and are even suffering, possibly, speculative attacks against their currencies. the spreads on their public debt securities would be much higher than they are now, their margins for combating the crisis by means of fiscal stimulus would be lower. the stability and growth pact, reformed in 2005, has encouraged governments to clean up their public accounts, achieving in 2007 the lowest level of budget deficit in the last 25 years, which now makes it possible to face the crisis in better conditions. the european central bank's behaviour throughout this crisis has only reinforced the solid reputation it had already earned in the early years of economic and monetary union. by taking the necessary steps with determination, by taking the lead in cooperation with the other central banks of the industrialised countries, the ecb has guided us through this period and has made a substantial contribution to preventing a major financial collapse. the economic situation is not what we would have wished for this anniversary, but events are highlighting the advantages of economic and monetary union more than ever. for those who are not yet part of it, the euro area is an increasingly attractive option, as we saw last week in bratislava when we welcomed slovakia as the new '16th' member of the euro family. the european commission and this parliament must continue to work together with the member states, the eurogroup, the european central bank and also with the international community to put our economies on the path to a sustainable recovery of growth. in this context, the recommendations made by the commission in the report we presented a few months ago on the first ten years of economic and monetary union, which was recently discussed in this house, are as valid today as they were last spring, if not more so. the deepening of budgetary surveillance, its extension to other macroeconomic aspects, the link between macroeconomic policies and structural reforms, the external projection of the euro and the improvement of the governance of economic and monetary union are, and must remain, the axes on which a second decade is based, at least as successful as the first for the euro. mr president, i would like to conclude by paying tribute to the vision and ambition of the founding fathers of the euro, whose imagination and determined action have bequeathed us a currency of which all europeans can be proud. we must safeguard the foundations of this success. the crisis has opened a new chapter for the world economy, in which economic and monetary union must continue to play a relevant role in the service of the common interests and ambitions of all europeans.
former president of the french republic. - mr president of the european parliament, mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament. all those who have worked on the birth of the european currency are very grateful to you, mr president, and to you, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, for the very welcome initiative you have taken to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the birth of the euro. i am one of those who think it is better to avoid more commemorations, but this is justified because it is the greatest contribution to european integration since the european parliament was elected by universal suffrage in 1979. it has been a long journey and perhaps this warm and friendly meeting does not give the full picture. i would like to pay tribute to all those who have traced this path and followed it. its origins can be traced back to the report of your predecessor, pierre werner, prime minister of luxembourg, in 1970. but it was the monetary crisis of the following years and the fluctuation of currencies that triggered the movement. as long as currencies were fixed, the monetary system did not disrupt our attempt at a common market. as soon as they floated, the problem was solved. after unsuccessful attempts to create a monetary snake, the strong franco-german impulse of the years 1975-1980 led to the decision in bremen, in the north of germany, to create the european monetary system and to introduce the ecu, the precursor of the euro. this approach has been accompanied and supported by our partners in the benelux and italy. after a period of semi-dormancy between 1980 and 1988, progress was resumed when the council set up the committee chaired by jacques delors, which led to the signing of the maastricht treaty. we should like to congratulate the pioneers who have worked on this road - you did so earlier, mr president - my friend, chancellor helmut schmidt and his secretary of state lahnstein; the governor of the bank of france, who was then bernard clappier, co-author of the robert schuman declaration in 1950; mr lamfalussy, who brought his great expertise, almost unique, to the work of the committee on european monetary union which we had set up with helmut schmidt to relaunch the project; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to all of them, today, we must say a big thank you. what can we say about the euro on this tenth anniversary, which is being celebrated in a time of crisis? what are our birthday toasts? firstly, the success of the euro has exceeded the expectations not only of all its opponents, of course, but also of all its promoters. i don't want to go into details, but you gave me five minutes. in my conversations with the leading monetary experts in the years 1995-2000, they were all sceptical about the possibility of introducing and succeeding with the euro. in 10 years the euro has become the second most important currency in the world and, as mentioned earlier, one of the most respected. its good management has made it a shield against the crisis and a foundation for growth without inflation. without the euro, continental europe would be shaken by a monetary storm that would worsen the economic crisis. we expect monetary policy to try to contain, within the limits of the power of money, the depressing effect of the crisis and to prepare for the return, which is not yet being addressed, to growth without inflation when the heavy public deficits and debt generated by the crisis have to be balanced. we have confidence in the leadership and staff of the european central bank, who have shown their expertise since the beginning of the crisis and whose determination and independence we respect. two final remarks. but let us beware of giving the euro a global dimension which would flatter our vanity but increase our risks. the euro is the currency of the european continent and must express its particular culture of reason and stability in concert with the other world currencies. finally, i do not think that public opinion should be kept waiting too long for the banking regulation of the euro area to be put in order. it seems to me that the european central bank could be called upon, in accordance with article 106 (5) of the maastricht treaty, to conduct this adjustment and to supervise its application. what is needed is a strong impetus, expertise and a timetable for decisions which the central bank could draw up and which the council of ministers of the euro area, chaired by you, mr president juncker, could then adopt and implement. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the symbol of integration which the success of the euro is must give us the courage to go further in building the ever more united europe which the treaties propose and which we are struggling to put into place. the inevitability of failure is contrasted with the dynamics of success. success today has a beautiful name, it is called the euro. (applause) i would like to thank
members of the economic and monetary affairs advisory committee. - mr president, i have to say something. ten years of the euro is indeed a cause for celebration. if anyone had said ten years ago that the euro was developing as splendidly as it has, they would have been ridiculed. many people worked on this success, and i remember many skeptical voices -- premature birth and not viable project was talked about -- and today we know that it was a vision that many people worked on. the speakers who have spoken have reminded us of all those who contributed to the milestones, the european monetary system, which was an agreement between central banks to set central rates, the delors report which envisaged the introduction of monetary union in three stages, the maastricht treaty - just two years after the fall of the wall - the transitional periods - and many contributed to the fact that the euro has become such a successful project today. parliament - mrs berès has already said this as chairman of the committee - has actively participated in many reports, discussions, opinions and proposals during this period, particularly from 1994, when the maastricht treaty was implemented, until 2002, when cash was introduced, and i would like to thank in particular the two committee chairmen during this period, karl von wogau and christa randzio-plath, who also represented parliament externally and provided the necessary parliamentary support for this project, which was originally created by the governments. we are still trying to achieve the same representation today under the presidency of mrs berès. the report by mrs berès, which we adopted by a large majority on 18 november, describes the successes, the challenges, the risks and the problems, and i would like to add a few points to what mrs berès has said. the euro is a great success and a unique project: a central monetary policy under the guidance of the european central bank and a decentralised budgetary and financial policy. it is important that the link between these two levels of responsibility in the stability and growth pact be maintained in future, also in times of crisis. without this stability and growth pact, without greater coordination of budgetary and financial policies, the euro will continue to face risks that we can avoid. i would like to ask the member states of the euro zone in particular, but also the european union as a whole, to take this discipline, this coordinated cooperation, more seriously than they have in the past on one or another issue. the euro has brought down inflation considerably. it has created confidence and stability and has become the second reserve currency in a period when no one else had the confidence to do so. the euro has increased the pressure for structural reform in the member states and has thus become a fitness programme for companies and for states in times of globalisation. the institutions of the eurozone - as several of my predecessors have pointed out - the ecofin council, the euro group, many other institutions, together with the commission and the european central bank, created the necessary conditions because they were already functioning, because they were there, because they acted independently to respond quickly, reliably and correctly to the economic crisis. we have seen the euro as the lever for creating a european financial market. the political conclusion of these joint achievements is that countries with a common currency and a common internal market have reached a unique stage of integration that ensures peace and prosperity. but the euro is not necessarily a self-sufficient future. there are a number of specific suggestions and demands that risks should be taken seriously: the drifting of economies, which poses a considerable risk to wage developments and budget deficits, should not be ignored on the occasion of an anniversary. a completely different aspect is the different development of interest rates on government bonds. we are now seeing the interest rate differential, which has certainly narrowed, widening again, so that new problems may arise for individual euro-zone member states. i would like to remind you that there should be no special discount, particularly when the eurozone is enlarged, and that all the countries that join the eurozone must and can fulfil these conditions of the maastricht treaty. the euro has reached the citizens. he's earned the trust of the world. it has passed the first test and is a unique contribution to the lasting integration of our peoples in europe. we can all be proud of that. thank you, sir. (applause from the right)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am very sorry that relatively few colleagues are attending this ceremony today, because it is indeed something of an historic event. we have already heard from the various speakers how great was the scepticism at the beginning of the introduction of the euro. the belief that we could not manage the logistical tasks of introducing billions of banknotes and coins on our own, and that it was indeed possible to combine a common monetary policy with a fiscal policy that was still separate in the individual member states, was not only seen as a great challenge but as simply unrealizable. well, the facts speak a different language. the european monetary union is a fact. the euro has been in existence for ten years. we have what seems to be a small political miracle, and once again the words of walter hallstein, the first president of the commission, are being fulfilled: 'in european affairs, those who do not believe in miracles are not realists.' the doubts of the citizens, which certainly existed in many member states at the beginning, who believed that the euro was an enormous cost, have now disappeared. today the euro is accepted, even enthusiastically by many citizens. it has become something of a visible european identification tool. it is one of the few symbols we have today, along with the anthem and the flag. it can be said that in the first years of the european central bank's existence europe and the european economy were sailing in relatively calm waters and that therefore it was not so difficult for the european central bank to pursue a policy of stability. but at least we have to note that the average inflation rate in the first ten years of the euro is around 2%, practically on the target set by the european central bank, whereas in the fifty years of the existence of the d-mark, which has always been a model of stability, we had an average inflation of 3%, so we can speak of a good performance by the european central bank. but their true strength, their true quality, they show now, in a moment of crisis. it plays a very important role here. it is independent, efficient, self-confident, and it acts decisively and quickly. it has become a model for some central banks in europe in countries not yet in the euro area, but also outside europe. it shows the fed in the united states very clearly that it can make a successful policy, not because it is independent, but precisely because it is politically independent and not bound by the instructions of the various governments. we know that at the moment, after the banking sector has been bailed out in the individual member states, the member states are developing various economic recovery programmes to cushion the negative effects of the financial crisis on the real economy. this will present new challenges for the european central bank, because there is a risk that the different approaches will lead to distortions of competition and that the convergence we have already achieved between some of the members of the euro area will be lost and we will have increasingly divergent developments. this is where the countersteering comes in. that is why it is so crucial and important that the stability and growth pact is not abandoned, but that we ensure that it remains in force. this is why it is so important that the necessary structural reforms, which the commission and the ecb have repeatedly called for in the past, are indeed pursued in the individual member states. the european central bank will have a new task in the next few years. the crisis has taught us that we need something like a european financial market supervision. the european central bank can play a major role in this. it has in principle indicated its willingness to introduce something like a central european supervisory system, analogous to the european system of central banks. the international role of the euro must be further strengthened. the eurozone should be able to speak with one voice and to have a central, unified voice in international organisations such as the imf and the oecd. one thing remains: a common currency without a common fiscal policy is and will remain a risky undertaking. this is not a petition. the eu also faces major challenges. we have high unemployment, which is unfortunately on the rise again, we have demographic change, we have pressure to migrate, we have increasing poverty among certain groups and increased competition as a result of globalisation. the eurozone can only meet these challenges if the economic policies of the member states are more closely interlinked. the appointment of a president of the eurozone was a first step in that direction, but only a first step. more must follow.
president of latvia. - mr president, distinguished members, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the president of the european parliament for his kind words of introduction and for the invitation to address the elected representatives of the european nations. i'm honored to have this opportunity. it is a great pleasure for me to address the european parliament in my native latvian, especially since latvian has also been the official language of communication of the european union for the past five years. i am speaking to you today as the first term of office of the latvian elected representatives in the european parliament draws to a close. thank you for the honor of doing your duty. dear members, 2009 is a very important year for latvia today marks the fifth anniversary of latvia's accession to the european union and nato. after the restoration of latvia's independence in 1991, participation in these international organisations became a strategic objective for latvia. latvia has made clear its willingness to participate in european and transatlantic economic and security structures. the expansion of the european family of democracies in the first decade of the 21st century marked the most dynamic change in europe since the creation of the european union. this was a major change. the european institutions have been joined by countries that have long been violently isolated from them, despite the fact that these countries historically shared the values that have formed the basis of the european union. last november 18, latvia celebrated the 90th anniversary of its proclamation as a country. this anniversary is very important for our nation, it once again confirmed our unwavering desire to live in an independent, free and democratic country. the act of proclamation of the republic of latvia in 1918 proclaimed: "[...] all citizens, regardless of their nationality, are invited to help, because latvia will guarantee the rights of all people, it will be a democratic and just state, in which there will be no place for oppression and injustice. i'm very proud of that. thirty years before the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights, the republic of latvia showed its commitment to its fundamental values and principles. latvia has always felt a sense of belonging to europe and its values, even when latvia and other central and eastern european countries were long associated with a country where many values were viewed through a particular ideological prism. there was peace between the eastern bloc countries, but it was a prison-yard peace. this was achieved by the presence of tanks, repression and threats. the inhumanity of totalitarian ideology was brought to your attention, members of parliament, and to the attention of europe as a whole last year by the film 'the story of the podomyu' by the latvian director edwin šnoras. we have shared a history, but we have shared different destinies. you need to look to the past to understand each other better and to look together to the future, and i would like to thank the european parliament for the declaration it adopted on 22 september last year on the proclamation of 23 august as european day of remembrance for the victims of stalinism and nazism. this declaration reminds all european citizens of the tragic events in the history of latvia and all of europe. today i want to look at a lot of recent history. this year marks the fifth anniversary of latvia's membership of the european union and nato. what has this period been like for latvia? what are the benefits to our country? what has our country achieved and what challenges lie ahead? first, the post-participation process in europe has helped to consolidate democracy in our society and has facilitated the development of democratic institutions. by joining the european union, latvia has demonstrated its commitment to its future, a future based on the european identity and our common values of freedom and democracy, responsibility, rule of law and human rights, equality and tolerance, prosperity. secondly, the accession to the european union has significantly improved the investment climate in latvia. the 'european currency', as the european union's structural funds are known in the vernacular, has made a significant contribution to the development of latvia's economy. third, we can enjoy the benefits of free movement. it is so common and natural to travel freely within the schengen area, and it is so natural to study, work and gain experience in other eu member states. fourth, the free movement of goods and services has opened up new business opportunities. every entrepreneur and consumer can operate in a free environment without borders and customs duties. this is particularly important for us in a country with a small internal market. fifth, and this is the most important, latvia's voice is heard in europe and europe's voice is heard in the world. we can be proud to have such a unique mechanism of cooperation at our disposal. it allows us all to work together actively to find solutions to global challenges, climate and demographic change, energy security, migration and financial crises, all on a global scale. latvia now has new political and economic instruments at its disposal, but it should be noted that the state's responsibility for the future of europe as a whole has also increased significantly, it is a responsibility towards all european citizens. looking back on successes should also be critical and acknowledging mistakes made. after joining the european union, the latvian government had a sense of accomplishment, the goal had been achieved. we didn't realize that we were at the beginning of the process, not the end. the european union offers a wealth of opportunities, but each country and each society must seize them. we have not used all the possibilities in latvia, we have not always implemented cohesion policy wisely and we have not always used the financial possibilities provided. our national institutions have had to learn to live in the european union. we have not been sufficiently determined to introduce the euro, which is one of the biggest mistakes we have made in the process of euro integration, and this is particularly evident in the current financial crisis. but even the most ardent eurosceptic must admit that latvia's membership of the european union has a positive balance. would anyone in latvia want to return to europe, where there are customs barriers between countries? no, you won't! would anyone want to stand in line at the border to enter a neighboring country? no, you won't! does anyone want to go back to restrictions on labour mobility, education and experience? no, you won't! even skeptics quickly become accustomed to good things, becoming simply skeptical. ladies and gentlemen, the deterioration of the financial system and the economy in recent months has irrevocably changed the role and role of national governments in economic processes. until now, financial markets have been able to develop very freely. we were convinced that market laws would be a sufficiently effective driver of economic development. we believed that the market would keep things in place. it happens. markets regulate themselves. but in the context of this global crisis, we see that our financial systems and our economies are suffering, and, most importantly, that our citizens, the people, are suffering. events at the end of last year have demonstrated the need for more active involvement of national governments in economic processes. the current approach of steering economically has been irresponsible. unfortunately, we woke up too late. i wish i could see the obstacle ahead of me - the financial meltdown - but i can't avoid it. this situation requires a comprehensive approach at national, european and global levels. coordinated action at the global level is needed to restore economic growth. this will only be possible by creating a new architecture and mechanisms for the financial system. a strict system of supervision will be required, while not restricting initiative and market processes. finding that balance will be the most difficult challenge. at european level, we have a significant advantage in coordinating our activities, in taking common action and in finding a sustainable solution. we are pleased with the progress made by the european commission in developing an action plan for economic recovery. it's a vital step out of the mess we're in right now. i'm going to be delaying national solutions for a while. the global financial crisis has also affected latvia. the commission has also received comments from the latvian authorities, which have submitted comments on the restructuring plan. the latvian authorities have also provided information on the implementation of the restructuring plan. it is a difficult task, but we can only overcome the crisis if we see a safe way out of it, without confusing short-term solutions with a long-term vision of economic development. at the end of last year, six positions and opposition parties represented in the latvian parliament agreed on a common position to support the economic stabilisation plan developed by the latvian government. this agreement provides for special attention to be paid to the monitoring of the use of the loan granted to latvia. the plan sets out the medium-term priorities of the latvian economy: export support, promotion of free and fair competition, substantial reduction of the current account deficit in the balance of payments and introduction of the euro in 2012. latvia's accession to the euro area has become one of the country's most important strategic objectives. it is essential that latvia is not left alone in this situation. it is not just international financial organisations that are helping us to get through these difficult times, but also the institutions of the european union and the european countries. latvia is grateful for this expression of solidarity. ladies and gentlemen! each enlargement has not only added new countries to the european union, but also placed new emphases on its agenda, including foreign policy. latvia's accession to the european union took place at a time when the european neighbourhood policy, its objectives, principles and implementing instruments were being defined. since then, the european union's external action towards its eastern neighbours has increased in particular. this has been achieved thanks to the interest and experience of the new member states. latvia has always seen the wider dimension of neighbourhood policy. latvia will continue to play an active role in the definition and implementation of this policy. this policy is not limited to the european union's relations with certain countries those with which it shares a land or sea border. in the context of this policy, the place and role of the european union in the world must be discussed. latvia, together with a number of like-minded countries, has actively promoted closer european union involvement in the eastern neighbourhood region. a new policy initiative, the 'eastern partnership', has emerged to transform the common european neighbourhood policy and adapt it to the specificities of the region, making the process more active, bold and ambitious. latvia welcomes the proposals prepared by the european commission. the eastern partnership in practice must strengthen political and economic relations between the european union and the countries of the region, as well as strengthen cooperation between the countries of the region. the eastern partnership should be developed with a view to respecting the principle of differentiation, individual assessment and treatment of each partner. each of these countries has its own development path. there are countries that want to see themselves in the european union, and there are countries that have other goals. our policy will only succeed if we are able to work with all the countries in the region, understandingly helping where needed. positive signals for broadening and deepening cooperation were also received during my visits to the countries of central asia last october, when i visited kazakhstan, uzbekistan and turkmenistan. latvia is and will remain an active supporter and implementer of the european neighbourhood policy. each european country has its own historical experience and its own opportunities to work on our common project for the benefit of the european union. latvia's special contribution to the eastern dimension is the mutual trust and expertise that our bilateral relations have built up over a period of common history. latvia is obliged to take advantage of this special situation. in the next decade, it may be lost. in a few decades, latvia will be seen in the east as just one of the countries of the european union, not the gateway to europe. latvia has a strong political commitment to the eu and its member states, and has a strong commitment to the eu's external relations. it's a win-win. we also get to hear the neighbours' views on the future relationship with the european union. i am convinced that it is in europe's interest to inaugurate the eastern partnership during the czech presidency. ladies and gentlemen, in the first days of the czech presidency, the question of energy security has become a new topic. the financial and economic crisis has a cyclical nature. energy security and sustainable energy sources are on the european and global political agenda at all times. it's becoming more and more relevant. energy security has a strong external dimension. this means that we cannot look at this question in isolation from the situation in the world. this is also borne out by recent events in ukraine and the conflict in georgia. in the recent past, the member states of the european union have considered energy as a national issue rather than an eu issue. the energy developments of recent years, the interruption of energy supplies, the decline in energy resources and the fluctuation of prices have contributed to a common understanding among the member states of the european union of the need for a common energy policy. at the intersection of energy and policy, the key is to ensure a regular, sufficient, economic and sustainable supply of environmentally friendly energy. it is recognised that the european union's contribution in this area has been mixed. in some areas, such as the development of an environmentally friendly energy economy, we have set ambitious targets at european level that need to be met. in other areas, we are only at the beginning of the diversification of energy sources and the integration of energy markets at european level. recent events the russian gas supply disruption have highlighted the need for a swifter solution at pan-european level. it is our collective responsibility to use this shared understanding to create a truly integrated and diversified european energy market. we must not let our resolve fade with this spring snow. energy security can only be successfully addressed through active dialogue with transit and supply countries. the european union has the foreign policy instruments to deal with this issue. it is our responsibility to use them. another area where serious work is needed is the integration of the baltic energy market with the energy markets of scandinavia and central europe. the integration of the baltic region is uneven. trade and transport are developing rapidly in the region. the energy market is stagnating. the european commission has done some commendable work in this direction. the initiative to strengthen energy security and solidarity also includes the development of a baltic energy market interconnection plan. this will allow the baltic states to be gradually integrated into the single european energy market. i highly value sweden's involvement in the strategic discussions on the baltic sea region. sweden will have the opportunity to update it during the next six months of its european presidency. i am convinced that a strong european union is made up of strong regions from the mediterranean to the baltic. ladies and gentlemen! the european union's original objective - the safety and well-being of europe's citizens - has not changed. the environment in which we have to do this has changed. the world economy is much more interconnected than it was half a century ago. at the same time, new powerful economic players have emerged in the world. only by acting consistently, with foresight and, above all, in a united way, can the european union hope to remain in this global competition. only together can we deliver on the promises of security and prosperity to our citizens. only then can we achieve the goal for which the people of our countries have gone to the polls to support our membership of the european union. the european parliament has already shown in the past that it has a broad vision for the future of the european union. in particular, this applies to a fair and balanced approach to the union's enlargement policy. europe's dynamic growth process has enabled it to compete in the world. this growth is europe's potential and must be harnessed if the union is to continue to be an economic partner of equal value to the fast-growing economies of asia and latin america for decades to come. it is you, the democratically elected representatives of the european nations, who bear the greatest responsibility for this process. nor can the role of the european parliament in bringing the european project closer to the people and in increasing democratic legitimacy be overestimated. the role of the european parliament will be further strengthened. it's about uniting our diversity and our diversity. it is important to continue to work towards the completion of the european union. this is a task for all europeans to do together. this is our common responsibility towards europe. it is essential to avoid the fragmentation of the european union. member states must seek solutions and avoid the european project moving at different speeds. the agreement reached by the european council a month ago on the way forward for the lisbon treaty is welcome. the lisbon treaty is a legal prerequisite for the european union to continue to function fully and to strengthen its role on the international stage. only by putting the principles of the lisbon treaty into practice will we be able to realise the full positive potential of a new, united europe. the effectiveness of the lisbon treaty in practice depends on the political will and ability of member states and institutions to be united in achieving european objectives. ladies and gentlemen! until 2004, latvia's objective was to join the european union. since then, we have been framing latvia's goals in the context of european goals. we can no longer see ourselves and our world as separate from europe. latvia's objectives can only be defined and achieved if they are consistent with a common european vision for the future. european objectives, on the other hand, are achievable if they are consistent with the vision of each member state. the european union is built and must be strengthened on the basis of common values. only public debate can bring out the values we all share. only together can we agree on values that will go alongside those already laid down in the foundations of the european union. defining european values and stimulating debate on them is the task of all politicians, and in particular of european leaders. look to the future! how do i see the european union and latvia in the longer term? what about 2015? the post-crisis world economy will be a confluence of several centers of economic power. one of them will be the european union. europe will have the will and the ability to be united, because only unity will enable us to achieve our objectives. even more the european union will remain open to all europeans who share its values. this unity in diversity will be the key to europe's growing role in the world. the european union will have enlarged, but it will not have lost its capacity to act effectively. the european union will be able to ensure its own security and also the stability of its neighbours. education and culture will be a bridge between the different experiences of the member states of the european union and will help to restore europe's leading role in the world of science and culture. there will be no more old and new, big and small european countries. in europe, countries will be judged on their achievements, not on geographical and geopolitical criteria. europe will be united by strong regions that, while defending their own interests, will work closely with others, thus creating a network of prosperity and development across europe. each country will contribute to development in accordance with its own capabilities and specific knowledge. what will be latvia's role in the european union in 2015? that will be the time when latvia has emerged from the crisis. the latvian capital riga will be one of the flourishing centres of the baltic economic region. the latvian economy will be more balanced, competitive and structurally transformed. in 2015, latvia will be entrusted with european and global issues as the eu presidency for the first time in the history of an independent state. our contribution to europe will be a special relationship with the eastern partnership countries. latvia and our region will form a bridge to the east, just as the mediterranean countries will connect the two shores of this sea. our vision of european openness and our experience of integration will be the impetus for european openness. ladies and gentlemen! 2015 is not far away - only six years. "there will be those who will change", said the latvian poet rainis a century ago. those words are still relevant today. i am convinced that europe will change significantly and become stronger in its economy, its prosperity, its cooperation with each other. it will strengthen your value system. europeans will be proud to live in europe and at the same time belong to their own nation. unity in diversity, development, preservation of values and the responsibility of each citizen for his or her country and for the european family as a whole - this is the future of europe. ladies and gentlemen, europe's development and prosperity are the measure of our success. the evaluation of our work. it's our responsibility. i invite you, members of the european parliament, to promote awareness among europeans of our common goals and how they will affect the lives of every european in their own homes. the support of european citizens for the european idea is the greatest guarantee of europe's future. thank you, members of the european parliament, for your work during this turbulent time! i wish you success in your future work and in the next elections to the european parliament!
mr president, on behalf of the european parliament, i should like to thank you for your speech, for your european courage and for your european determination. we are of course glad to hear that you have paid tribute to the european parliament - and rightly so. i remember very well that in the accession negotiations in the second half of the 1990s, latvia, lithuania and slovakia were initially excluded. it was then the european parliament that asked the governments to include latvia, lithuania and slovakia in the negotiations. this enabled latvia, lithuania and slovakia to join the european union on 1 may 2004. you have raised the question of energy, and i will give you a short answer. we have a very responsible commissioner, a compatriot of yours, andris piebalgs, who has shown himself to be an excellent man in the gas dispute with russia and ukraine, but essentially with russia, last week and now. i would like to thank mr piebalgs very warmly for his work in the presence of his president. (applause from the centre) mr president, my final remark is that you have spoken of learning and latvia learning. i'm sure that's right. but those who have been part of the european community, the european union, from the beginning, also learn from you, from your historical experience. if we are willing to listen to each other and to learn from each other, then this is an enrichment for all of us. and on the basis of our common values, we will be strong, democratic and free. thank you very much, mr president zatlers, we are delighted to have you with us today. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
in writing. − strengthening economic relations with the western balkans is of great importance for both the eu and the western balkans. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. given that the future of the western balkan countries lies in the eu, their economic and political rapprochement with the eu is very important. to link these countries to the eu in the long term, the development of their market economies and regional cooperation must be promoted. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. it is in the eu's interest to work towards political stability, legal certainty and thus a good framework for foreign investment in these countries. the belder report emphasizes that the degree of economic relations depends on the individual progress of each country. the eu should also aim to diversify the economies of the western balkan countries. all these important aspects are reflected in the report. i am convinced that a positive development of economic relations between the eu and the western balkans will be a win-win for all countries of the european continent and i look forward to the practical implementation of our proposals.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i'm not in favor of fingerprinting even small children, even the smallest babies. children should be exempted from the obligation to include biometric fingerprints in passports. it is therefore right to make exceptions for children in this respect. there is no firm evidence yet on the use of biometric fingerprints in children under 12 years of age. what is not clear, in particular, is how reliable the fingerprints of adolescents actually are. so if you just use this data, it could do the exact opposite of what you're supposed to do, which is to say, less security instead of more. therefore, it is disproportionate to collect and use data whose reliability cannot be guaranteed beyond doubt. the compromise now reached with the council reflects these concerns and, thanks to the persistence of parliament and the good work of the rapporteur, sets the age limit at 12 for a transitional period of four years. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: unfortunately, the compromise also provides for exceptions for those member states which already permit fingerprints to be taken from children under 12 years of age by law in their countries. it is therefore all the more important that the compromise now reached explicitly states that the european legal act on security features and biometric data in passports and travel documents can in no case be used as a basis for invoking the establishment of corresponding databases at national level with these data.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. thousands of children are trafficked each year, and many more are abducted. a recent study shows that unaccompanied minors are the most frequent victims of such crimes. we therefore welcome the fact that the european commission is now taking children into account in its amendment of the old regulation. when we demand that children of a certain age have their biometric data in their passports, it is not because we are collecting - i really do not share this information - but because it is a better way to protect our children. but this protection can only be guaranteed if each child receives a separate passport with his biometric data and if the guardians are also registered in it. however, as with any collection of data, it is of particular importance to my group that the highest possible security is guaranteed in the collection, storage and further processing of biometric data of all citizens. it must always be possible to trace who can access which data at which time. the council regulations and decisions in force at this point provide for extremely high levels of protection and control mechanisms against data misuse. i have to say that i have a basic trust in my government agencies, unlike some private companies, which, in part, because of scandalous security holes, can pass personal data unprotected to third parties and still collect decent money for it. this is why it is so important that public authorities use the trust principle and work closely with data protection authorities. this also means that the european commission - unlike in the present case - fulfils its legal obligation to consult the european data protection supervisor. i would like to congratulate my friend carlos for the excellent work he has done in this parliament. thank you.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is also aware of the problems of the environment. we shall vote tomorrow on the report by my colleague, mr marco cappato, on public access to documents. the commission has already made it clear that it is not possible to give the public access to documents which are being discussed and decided. it is not the case that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the facts. this is certainly open to interpretation and not entirely justified in this case. the debate on whether or not to broadcast group meetings in principle is certainly something to talk about. the question is whether the right will then be granted, for example, to hold such a meeting in camera at the request of the majority of the group members, because there are certainly sensitive issues - we all know this from our own meetings - which must be clarified amongst ourselves before going public. i think it's normal to do your dirty laundry at home and not out on the street. moreover, this example shows that political parties - not in this case factions of parties - always have a certain interest in publicity: when it is useful to them. otherwise, it is unlikely that the broadcasting of party meetings would be carried on such a large scale. interestingly, no one complains about the fact that political parties' conventions, which can be quite heated, can be broadcast in full. i think i can say that marco cappato has done a good job here, although, as we are used to, there may be some suggestions for improvement from other groups. in some cases, they're actually so good that you should think about them. however, compared with the other two institutions, parliament can still be described as a pioneer in terms of transparency. i would not necessarily put my emphasis on that. we are more open than any national parliament, both in terms of access to documents and in terms of transparency of meetings and the work of members of the european parliament. this does not mean that there is no need for improvement in other institutions, especially the council, which is unfortunately not here at the moment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is much more important, however, that access be given to documents produced, for example, in the context of the comitology procedure. a particular example was the regulation on liquids in hand luggage, where the annex was not visible to citizens, but also to parliamentarians. the transparency requirement has been introduced in most member states of the european union for a reason: to give the public the opportunity to understand political action, to be able to take responsibility and then, if necessary, to be able to make a different decision in elections. thank you for your time, mr. president. good luck with that, marco. i'll be with you at the votes tomorrow, and i think we'll get this done.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there are currently 13 eu missions around the world, helping to create peace and stability. nine missions have already been completed. many of these operations involve the use of armed forces, often including police forces, of our member states in difficult environments. at the same time, we all know that there are many more hotbeds of crisis, that the demand for a european contribution to international politics will grow rather than shrink, and we also know, unfortunately, that we europeans are often not able to carry out our missions as we should, with the best equipment, interoperable, strategically available. we must achieve this, because we owe it to our soldiers and police officers in the world. but we are far from that. one of the reasons is our fragmented arms market. our 27 member states are financing 89 different, sometimes even double, research programmes. the u.s. has just 29. there is far too little cooperation between member states in product development. the so-called historical suppliers are preferred to the non-historical, but perhaps better. we want to change that. the european arms market is worth some eur 91 billion in goods and services purchased annually. of these, only 13% are procured on average throughout europe. the sad conclusion is germany, with only about 2%. the bottom line is that the internal market for defence products is not working. some important innovations in this high-tech industry cannot be exploited, our armed forces are not getting the best equipment, and taxpayers' money is being wasted, while high-tech armaments are becoming more and more expensive, while defence budgets remain the same or even shrink. in this situation, it's clear what's at stake. it is not about more arms spending, but about spending the money we have wisely. that's what this is about. we owe it to our taxpayers. that is why this parliament, in a report in 2005, called on the commission to present a directive for this sector. it has done so, in agreement with both parliament and the council. it was important for us, and for me as rapporteur, that president sarkozy, in his speech on the priorities of the french presidency, specifically mentioned the european arms market. it was clear that parliament, the council and the commission would be in agreement on this. the agreement at first reading is the result of this common political will. we hope that tomorrow we will be able to lay the foundations for a new european legal framework which will ensure a genuine opening up of the market and greater transparency and competition in the award of contracts. we must also look at this directive in its context. in december we already successfully adopted the directive on the movement of military equipment within the community. the directive we are debating today is the second important building block of the european arms package. the two directives operate independently in theory, but in practice they are interdependent. that's why it's so important to finish our work on the armament package tomorrow. it will not bring about an overnight revolution in the market, that is clear, but it is an important step forward and it can make a decisive contribution to european security and defence policy. i would like to thank my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs charlotte cederschiöld, barbara weiler and gisela kallenbach, for their fair, sometimes critical but always constructive cooperation. i would also like to thank the council and the commission. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. we all owe it to our citizens to work together to make constructive policy for europe. i hope that we will be able to pay off this debt for our area of responsibility tomorrow by adopting this package. we should be having this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg. thank you. thank you.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. at the turn of the year, there were some notable headlines: "the world is arming itself", "the arms business is booming", "the arms industry is unrivalled in cost", and other corruption cases in germany and other european union countries. we social democrats are quite clear: we reject this kind of arms race, arms race and laissez-faire attitude towards corruption. we agree with the national members on this point. the objectives of this package of legislation, these two directives transfer and granting directive that we are discussing today, will ensure that it is not just about competitiveness, but that it also stops the waste of taxpayers' money in arms production and that corruption is prevented. these are the reasons why the social democrats will support the result. there will be a european legal framework for the procurement of goods and services in the field of defence and security, there will be more cooperation between member states, so no unnecessary overlaps, no dragging of member states by the arms companies, there will be more competition overall and fewer exceptions under article 296. it was important for us members - and i think for all the groups - that we introduced the appeal directive, that is to say the directive of mr fruteau, here. it was not so obvious in the council. it was important to us that there would be sanctions for corruption, including exclusion from contracts. i think this is a new thing for this previously spoiled industry. but it was also important for us that the results were sustainable for all 27 member states. even if only six or seven countries produce their own products and a few participate in trade, it is important to get 27 countries behind us. that worked. i'm not sure everything's gonna work out the way we think it's gonna. we have therefore included the fact that parliament wants to retain control. we want to be informed, not just automatically by the commission, but we want to be informed about the results and the implementation of these directives, of this package. if we are to have a stronger european single market in the future, if we are to have european competences, as mr sarkozy has planned, then the european parliament, as the elected institution in europe, must also be involved in real control, as we have in national parliaments, but not yet here in the european parliament. but that is the task of the future. we in germany, for example, are a burnt child with armaments production and increased prices. we have the eurofighter - an overpriced, one of the most expensive projects - and i am sure that every member state has had similar experiences. i don't want to end with a thank you. the cooperation was quite good, the results are above all meaningful. but i 'll be honest with you . the parliamentary procedure was unbearable. compromise with the council and the commission at first reading is simply not parliamentary work. for these reasons, this procedure must in future be an absolute exception. this procedure was not actually necessary in the case of this package of legislation. we should stick to that and abolish this kind of non-parliamentary procedure immediately after the elections.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i thank the rapporteur for his good cooperation, because, despite all the justified criticisms of the procedure at first reading, this cooperation was the precondition for parliament's voice to be heard clearly at the trilogue. we are deciding today on a compromise for a commercial product whose market has so far been limited to a few member states. it was a very interesting experience for me that the purists of the doctrine of the internal market and competition suddenly pulled out all the stops in order to continue to use national decision-making and foreclosure mechanisms. it didn't work, and that's a good thing. why would you do that? because more competition in defence trade will hopefully mean a move away from price dictation in the future and there is a chance that the public money used for this will be used more efficiently and reduced. the same is true for reducing corruption. we owe it to the citizens. it is also clear that clear tendering conditions are now in place, which will lead to more transparency in the procurement process and will finally give smes a real chance of entering the market. the commission has also reduced all conceivable loopholes to avoid tendering and any planned deviations must be agreed with the commission in advance. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. and last but not least, for the first time, there is also the possibility of appeal. i could have imagined that we would have europeanised it even more, reduced the thresholds and thereby increased transparency. but this is a big step in the right direction, and i look forward to seeing it through.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not this directive is part of the defence package, the context of which is, i quote, 'the strategy for a stronger and more competitive european defence industry'. the first guideline is the free market, as with so much else, including for armaments, for weapons, and weapons are there to kill and to wage war. the aim of the directive is to create greater efficiency and competitiveness in the eu's defence industry. mr swoboda spoke plainly in the last debate. he said that better starting conditions were needed for the european arms industry in the face of competition, particularly from the united states. in 2005, for the first time, the eu countries together became the world's number one arms exporter. 70% of these exports are made by the big four: france, germany, the united kingdom and italy. the main importing countries are countries in the middle east. our concern should not be to make the armaments industry more efficient, but to disarm it, and there is no directive on this, unlike the one on the efficiency of the armaments industry. it is very clear what is at stake here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to thank the rapporteur on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, the chairman of the subcommittee on security and defence and the draftsman of the opinion on the lambsdorff report, my friend karl von wogau. we are not discussing here today the export of arms to countries outside the european internal market, but we are discussing exclusively how to make the sale and trade of arms in the european internal market, in the 27 member states of the european union, more cost-effective and effective. i am very pleased that parliament has adopted a united position on this, because it will finally enable citizens to make substantial savings and thus to pay a kind of peace dividend in a market of some 70 billion euros a year. this work and - it is a little disappointing that the council is so sparsely represented today - this decision is extremely welcome in the light of an extremely difficult discussion between member states in the past. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. i am all the more saddened that so few colleagues want to be present at this decision. this morning we celebrated the 10th anniversary of the euro as the european currency. i hope that in a few years we will look back on this day because it is a milestone in the european cooperation of the member states in the field of defence and in the field of foreign and security policy, because in future the principle will apply: what we demand in our own member state will also apply indiscriminately in all the other member states. this is a major advance of confidence which the member states are now prepared to give. i thank you very much for that. i would also like to thank the commission, which has worked very hard on this directive, which has overcome the resistance in the member states, which has tried to help parliament constructively to find a way through the thick of the contract law. the positive points have already been raised, including the improvements in the law of contract that are being made here, and i do not want to repeat that. with the second part of the package to create this genuine european internal market for defence products, we are really reaching another important milestone. this also strengthens the european union's capacity to react autonomously to international crises, a task to which mr von wogau's colleague in the subcommittee on security and cooperation has devoted particular attention. if, as has recently been described, an autonomous european union mission in africa is possible, led by an irish general with a polish deputy and troops from 15 different member states, then this shows the path the european union has taken in building a europe of defence. we must continue along this path. thank you, thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to point out once again that we are talking about a package solution - the resolution in december and this debate today. it is only when you put the two together - the regulation on the movement of arms within the community and now the procurement directive - that it becomes a shoe. i have drawn up the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. we had a key political objective that, with the harmonization of the european arms industry and the liberalization within the eu, stronger controls on exports outside the eu should be imposed at the same time. if you're going to call the headlines negative, you should call the headlines good. the council, at its last meeting at the end of last year under the french presidency, decided to legalise the code of conduct. that is good, that is what this parliament has always called for. i would therefore like to point out once again that this harmonization, which we consider to be the right one - and not only this harmonization, but also the establishment of a sanction mechanism in the event of infringement of these directives - is now also subject to the control of the national states and the member states. we will not only be harmonizing, we will be following this process with great interest.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the participants in the debate. it is clear that the present text is a compromise and as such cannot take on board all the suggestions made with the attention of improving it. at the same time, however, parliament has many reasons to be satisfied. firstly, it was parliament that asked the commission in its resolution of 17 november 2005 in the green paper on defence procurement to prepare this directive. hence, it is to a large extent parliament’s proposal. secondly, and even more importantly, the current text has benefited enormously from your input during the process. a huge number of amendments from the committee on internal market and consumer protection report have been integrated, in particular with regard to the scope, the provisions on remedies, and transparency. the commission can accept all these amendments and therefore supports the text. we are convinced that this directive will make a difference and contribute to a real european defence market. let us face it, only five years ago, the idea of building this market with community instruments was pure science fiction to most people, but today it is about to become a reality. we should not miss this opportunity.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to ask my colleague geoffrey van orden to think that the only person who supports him here is the german far left. and i call on mr plowger from the left: looking at the law makes finding justice easier. it is not about exports at all, it is about the european single market. otherwise, what mrs weiler said is correct. she said, "these products are unbeatable". yeah, well, if there's no competition, they're expensive. we hope to introduce more competition in the european single market. this does not make these products cheap, but it does make them cheaper. this is a great opportunity, an opportunity for industry to open up new markets, an opportunity for smes to enter these markets too. but it's also - and this is very important - an opportunity for transparency and thus for civil society to better follow how this market is structured, what's happening, and for many non-governmental organizations. i would like to thank my colleagues nickolay mladenov and jacques toubon for pointing out the unusual work on this project. it is essentially a project of the second pillar, the strengthening of the european security and defence policy, with an instrument of the first pillar, namely an internal market directive. it is not the case that the european parliament has to be the only one to have the power to decide on the future of the union. we must expand these opportunities. it will be an opportunity for political europe. it will be an opportunity for the europe of the common foreign and security policy, an opportunity for the europe of values and peace. this is an opportunity we must seize!
i have to say, madam president, i am making a request under rule 145 of the rules of procedure. when you are addressed personally, you have the opportunity to respond briefly. who is the extremist here is pretty quick to show up when you look at what's going on. it is about the market extremism that exists in this area. i said that a more efficient arms industry within the european union would of course also have an impact on arms exports. there's no denying that. the european union is the only institution which is capable of doing this.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to note the arguments that have been raised, because they have underlined the importance of the convention under discussion from various points of view, as well as the importance, from various points of view and in very profound arguments, of the daily life of fishermen, which, as i mentioned in my opening speech, is about 30 million people. ladies and gentlemen, i think the formal process of this proposal is clear, and i think our next political effort must be to get it ratified as soon as possible, because the deadline set in the commission's proposal is the latest deadline and any shortening of it would be good in my view. so let me once again thank the rapporteur, mrs ilda figueiredo, for the work she has done and thank all the members for the support they have shown for this proposal.
the next item is a statement by the council on the presentation of the programme of action of the czech presidency. i should like to welcome the president of the european council, mr mirek topolánek, to the european parliament. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. (applause from the centre) i would also like to extend a warm welcome to the president of the european commission, mr josé manuel durão barroso. i am not going to go into detail. we all know that a presidency is a particular challenge, and i know from prime minister topolánek that he is very moved, intellectually as well as emotionally, that with his political experience in the years of communism he is now presenting his report on the european union as a representative, as a representative of the european union. after slovenia, this is the second presidency of countries which joined the european union on 1 may 2004. i can say, on behalf of all of you, ladies and gentlemen, that we fully support the czech presidency and we want to do everything we can to ensure that the czech presidency of the european union succeeds in these difficult times. on this basis, mr president of the european council, mr topolánek, i would ask you to address the european parliament. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. (applause from the centre)
the president-in-office of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking to you for the first time as president of the european council. the czech republic has taken over the leadership of the union from france, which i consider more than symbolic. france played a significant role in the birth of the modern czech state. the french court was the home of our greatest king, charles iv, emperor of the roman empire, who, after the example of the sorbonne in paris, founded the university of prague, one of the great institutions of european learning. we are therefore bound to france both for the fulfilment of our national aspirations and for the promotion of universal european values. just as it was not easy to establish a university in the czech republic that could be compared to the sorbonne, it is not easy to take over the presidency of the council of the eu after france. i see only one way to honor this task. it is no accident that i have chosen as an example of our connection with france and at the same time with european values a medieval monarch. charles iv could not defend the narrow czech positions in his politics and, on the contrary, had to integrate and represent the whole diverse empire. the european union is in a sense a continuation of medieval universalism. at least in that it puts a common moral code and a common legal basis above local power interests. there is talk of a second european union: bureaucratic, power-technological and spiritless. but i believe in the first europe, a europe of freedom, rights, ideas and rules. in this universe of values, where the law is elevated above the person, the size of the country doesn't matter. what matters is the ability to serve a common purpose. the role of the presidency is not to promote its interests or to make decisions. her role is to moderate and inspire debate. so i am not standing before you today as the prime minister of the czech republic, but as the president of the european council. the views i will be representing on this soil for the next six months will not be my own, nor will they be the views of the czech government. it will be a consensus of 27 countries embodied in the european council conclusions. i can't imagine being able to act any differently here. of course, as directly elected members of the european parliament, you have the right to ask me anything, and if you are interested, i will always be happy to give you my opinion or explain the czech position. but i don't think it's that important. the european council, which is also conceived as such in the necessarily complex system of checks and balances of european democracy, is the cradle of national interests. but its primary mission is to find a common intersection, a compromise acceptable to all. and i will always defend it here consistently, decisively and correctly. we czechs are said to be dissatisfied with something. that we are among the kverulants that others should fear, that we are a nation of hussites and exalted nationalists. i fundamentally disagree with this type of criticism. like our first president, t.g. masaryk, i am convinced that the 'czech question' is in fact a european question, that it has always developed within a pan-european context, in accordance with common european values and in conjunction with developments in other countries. as masaryk wrote a century ago in the second edition of his czech question: "our literary and linguistic national revival has coincided with the current revival and new development of all european nations. this suggests that our rebirth was not as isolated and miraculous as is commonly claimed, but that it is not entirely outside the pan-european development. i believe that these words are still relevant today, when the european union as a whole and individual countries are looking for a new face of europe. a face that reflects the traditional values of europe and that looks boldly into the third millennium. a face that, in the spirit of the eu motto 'in varietate concordia', will be an expression of unity and diversity at the same time. as in the 19th century, the czechs are entering this debate as a young and small member. but, as then, we also consider ourselves to be an ancient part of the great family of proud european nations. it is precisely in the next six months that we will be able to fully demonstrate our position on european integration. the czech presidency is a year that is significant for a number of reasons. this year marks the fifth anniversary of the eu's largest ever enlargement in 2004, which was both the symbolic and practical culmination of the process of successfully reuniting a previously divided continent. and this year, europe celebrates 20 years since the fall of the iron curtain, which enabled the countries of the former soviet bloc to return to freedom and democracy. e year 2009 will also mark 30 years since the first direct elections to the european parliament, which you represent. in the triangle of eu institutions, it is parliament that we consider to be the source of direct political legitimacy. the european parliament is the only directly elected eu institution and its powers have been increased over the decades with repeated calls to reduce the so-called democratic deficit. finally, this year marks the 60th anniversary of the establishment of the north atlantic alliance, the most important defence alliance in the transatlantic area. the alliance is the embodiment of the security layer of the euro-atlantic bond, which affirms the validity of our european civilisational values on both sides of the ocean. however, 2009 is not only a milestone year, but also a year of important and challenging challenges. we must continue to address institutional issues. the eu's international role is being tested not only by the still-unsolved conflict in georgia, but also by the new escalation of tensions in the middle east. finally, we are once again reminded of the question of energy security. as was the case with the french presidency, we are faced with new developments in addition to the planned tasks. with more surprises never ruled out. the long-term agenda of the union and the emergence of current problems cannot be influenced by the presidency. what it can and must do is to influence the choice of the president's priorities, which, as is customary, i intend to present here today. our primary concern was that these priorities should not only represent the czech view but reflect both the continuity of developments in the eu and the attitudes and ideas of individual member states and political currents. we wanted a broad and consensual assignment, not a confrontational or one-sided one. and while it's impossible for everyone to be 100% satisfied with these priorities, i believe that each of you can choose something in our program that you identify with. at the same time, i make no secret of the fact that the czech presidency, like any other member state, is an opportunity to highlight areas in which we can bring something to europe thanks to our specific know-how. which ones are they? as a country dependent on imported gas and oil and a former eastern bloc state, we understand very well the importance of energy security as a condition not only of economic prosperity but also of a free and independent foreign policy. as a new member or a member with a totalitarian experience, we value our membership of the community and consider it our moral duty to strengthen cooperation with those left behind. just as france has put its know-how to use in the mediterranean, we want to convince the union of the importance of the eastern partnership. the third contribution that i want to make here is our experience with the banking sector crisis that we went through in the late 1990s. we can then contribute our recipes and experts to the current debate. thanks to the stabilization of financial institutions, we are now one of the very few countries that have not yet had to pump taxpayers' money into bailing out banks hit by the financial crisis. our presidency priorities reflect czech know-how, respect the continuity of eu development and finally respond well to current challenges. as you probably know, the motto of our presidency is 'europe without barriers'. i'm adding a subtitle for europe without rules. this vision takes on new significance in the current political and economic turmoil. we believe that only a europe that fully exploits its economic, human and cultural potential can survive economically and politically in global competition, which is doubly important in times of crisis. there are a number of internal barriers to the full development of europe's potential, which we should seek to remove. i am thinking, for example, of the latest obstacles to the full exercise of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu for all member states. unnecessary administrative burden for the entrepreneur. or the lack of interconnection of energy networks, which prevents the improvement of energy security and the deepening of the internal energy market. on the other hand, a europe without barriers cannot be a europe without rules and borders. the removal of internal barriers must go hand in hand with protection against illegal activities that threaten the security and interests of europeans. in particular, in the area of intellectual property protection or illegal migration. only this clear definition of the mantinels will enable us to play a more active role in breaking down external barriers, for example in international trade, and thus to better exploit the potential and comparative advantages of european countries. the czech republic will pursue these overarching objectives during the six months of its presidency, implementing three main programme areas, the three czech e: 1. economy, 2. energy and 3. the european union in the world. with a little exaggeration, it can be said that these 3 e's transformed into 2 g's at the beginning of the year gaz and gaza. if e is the energy in physics, then g is the symbol for gravitational acceleration. and 2g, that's a pretty decent overload for an untrained organism. i'm telling you, i could talk about priorities and tasks for hours. more than words, however, the results of the czech presidency so far are important. today is january 14th, which means we've been leading the eu for two weeks. in that time, we've managed to set up a political solution to the complicated russian gas problem and negotiate a deal between the two parties. we also led a european delegation to the middle east conflict area, which held a series of difficult negotiations with all actors and achieved initial successes in opening the humanitarian corridor to gaza. all this at a time when there was a critical situation at home around the reconstruction of the government and when we were exposed to attacks by the opposition, which irresponsibly torpedoes the czech presidency of the eu and takes the country's foreign commitments hostage in an internal political struggle. i think that the results we have achieved are more than a good answer to the doubting voices that the czech republic, for objective and subjective reasons, cannot manage the eu leadership. now, let's go into the areas in detail. first e: economics the czech presidency will focus on the proper implementation of the conclusions of the g20 summit declaration of november 2008 and the european council conclusions of december 2008. the key to success, according to these conclusions, is to avoid over-regulation and protectionism, i.e. to respect eu primary law, to respect the rules once they are in place. the eu must not close itself off from the world, but instead seek to make the world trade as open as possible and to make the most of it. at this point i would like to quote the words of my friend joseph daul of the epp_ed: 'the current economic crisis is not the defeat of capitalism but rather the result of political errors and the lack of rules for controlling financial markets.' the revision of the capital adequacy directive for investment firms and credit institutions, the negotiation of the insurance regulatory directive, the regulation on the activities of credit rating agencies and the directive on electronic money institutions will be priority agendas. the presidency will also seek to review the euro payments regulation and, last but not least, to ensure the timely and proper implementation of the economic and financial affairs council roadmaps adopted in response to the financial market crisis. at the same time, however, it is essential to analyse thoroughly the possibilities offered by the legislation currently in force and to make full use of them. only an economically strong and influential eu can address important issues of global politics, security, trade or the environment. the presidency must therefore devote itself to the implementation of the european economic recovery plan. we will emphasise its integration into the framework of the lisbon strategy: after short-term instruments to strengthen the economy, it will be time for instruments for medium and long-term structural reforms. the common agricultural policy is an example of this important structural reform. the key is to establish a level playing field for all eu member states in the payment of direct payments, both in terms of the amount of payments and the system for their payment (removal of historical disparities, taking into account the diversity of agriculture in each member state). we want to take this dimension into account in the debate on the future of the cap after 2013. in the long term, strengthening the eu's competitiveness is the best protection against the crushing effects of future crises. as i have already mentioned, this is about fully upholding and applying the four fundamental freedoms on which the union is founded. i would add the fifth freedom, the free movement of knowledge, which is a return to that medieval universalism. an important factor for improving competitiveness is the improvement of the quality of regulation, including the reduction of regulatory burdens, facilitating business, especially for smes. we're profiling this area a lot. in the area of foreign trade, the presidency will focus on reviving the wto debate. here we attach great importance to the successful completion of the doha development agenda (dda). the dda represents an effort to achieve transparent trade liberalisation at the multilateral level with long-term benefits. if the dda negotiations were to be interrupted, the presidency will seek to initiate reflection on multilateral trade instruments and will encourage greater intensity of negotiations on other wto agendas. and we must not forget about investing in education, research, development and innovation, improving the regulatory environment and reducing the administrative burden. and here i will quote the chairman of the social democratic group, martin schulz: 'europe cannot compete successfully with other regions of the world because of low wages and social standards, but because of technological innovation, higher quality of work, and the competence and knowledge of people.' i fully subscribe to that idea. second e: energy the second priority, like the first, is in the context of current developments. i'd just say more urgent and stronger. the global crisis may weaken europe in the short term. but the impending energy shortage would destroy not only europe's economy, but also our freedom and security, both immediately and in the long term. the czech presidency will continue its efforts to ensure a secure, competitive and sustainable energy for europe. in the field of energy security, we would like to focus on three dimensions of this issue: firstly, the completion of the second strategic energy review, which includes an analysis of the medium-term energy demand and supply in the eu and, on this basis, the identification of appropriate infrastructure projects. secondly, to complete the directive on the maintenance of minimum stocks of oil and petroleum products, where we support the increase of the mandatory minimum stocks from 90 to 120 days, and thirdly, to review the trans-european energy networks (tens-e), where the green paper on european energy networks is also part of the energy security legislation package adopted by the ec in november 2008. the reinforcement of infrastructure in the territory of the member states, including existing cross-border interconnections and the implementation of new interconnections of energy networks, is equally important. we hope for the support of the european parliament in all related legislative acts. naturally, we will also seek to diversify supply and transport routes. it is clear that, for example, the nabucco pipeline is a top priority, as is support for new pipelines. we must also seek to diversify the energy mix, including nuclear rehabilitation and investment in new technologies. the agreement we brokered to establish a monitoring mechanism for the transit of russian gas is a demonstration of the ability to achieve energy security in practice. the aim was to restore basic trust between the russian federation and ukraine and to bring elementary transparency to this issue. we've managed to get both countries to sign off on a single text, which could allow for deliveries to the european union. the eu must now take decisions and measures to avoid a repeat of the crisis with repercussions for member countries in the future. there is a need to increase transparency in the gas business, there is a need to diversify supply routes and suppliers. the eu's energy mix needs to be diversified. the development of safe nuclear energy needs to be seriously considered. infrastructure needs to be built up within the eu as a matter of urgency to connect member states efficiently, which is a prerequisite for an efficient gas market. in the area of the internal market and infrastructure, it is necessary to pursue effective coordination between transmission system operators, to complete the internal market in electricity and gas and to ensure the completion of the missing parts of the transmission and transport infrastructure. as regards the legislative priorities in this area, we want to conclude the third package for the internal energy market, i.e. to complete the revision of the two directives and the two regulations on electricity and gas, which aim to complete the liberalisation of the electricity and gas markets. we also aim to implement the regulation and establish an agency for regulatory cooperation. another area is energy efficiency, which the swedish presidency intends to tackle in greater depth, thus making the trio of france, the czech republic and sweden tackle the energy issue in a truly comprehensive and all-round way. although this priority is called energy, it is inextricably linked to climate policy. in this area, the presidency will seek to reach a globally acceptable agreement on the post-2012 reduction commitments, i.e. primarily to bring the us, india, china on board and pave the way for a broad international consensus at the end of 2009 in copenhagen. it should also reflect the current developments in the world economy. in the context of the coming economic recession and supply crisis, it will be particularly important to align environmental, competitiveness and safety requirements. the beginning of the year reminded us that the eu's priorities in the world have to deal with unforeseen pressing challenges. the new escalation of tensions between israel and hamas requires not only an active approach by the eu itself, but also coordination with major global and regional players. it is a further confirmation that peace cannot be achieved unless palestine begins to function as a fully-fledged state, capable of guaranteeing law and order and security to its neighbours in its territory. in addition to current diplomatic activities, the european union must therefore continue its efforts to build palestinian infrastructure, train security forces and strengthen the authority of the palestinian authority. the czech presidency will seek to use its good relations with both the palestinians and israel to resolve the conflict. but it is clear that without mutual trust, there can be no lasting peace in the middle east. i have already mentioned the eastern partnership here. the georgian crisis has shown how important it is for the eu to have a strategy in this area. the deepening of the eastern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy by strengthening cooperation with the countries of the region (primarily ukraine), as well as with the countries of the caucasus and caspian regions, is of great importance not only morally but also practically. this cooperation will allow us to diversify our foreign trade and supply of energy resources. as regards transatlantic relations, it is clear that without strengthening and developing them, the eu cannot effectively play its role as a strong global player, any more than the united states can play its role alone today. we can only succeed together in the long run. the czech presidency will therefore place emphasis on intensive dialogue with the new us administration in key areas of the economy, climate and energy, as well as cooperation with third countries (pakistan, afghanistan, russia, middle east). the position of the member states in the negotiations on the new partnership agreement with russia will also be crucial to the eu's standing in the world. the events of recent years and especially of recent months raise a number of questions and underline the need for a unified eu approach. it is based on an understanding of russia and a common analysis, which is why we will encourage cooperation between russia experts across the european union. the czech presidency will also continue negotiations on enlargement to include the western balkan countries and turkey. the western balkans must not be dragged into our economic problems and the current international crises. in the case of croatia, the presidency will do everything in its power to ensure that the union is enlarged as soon as possible. the positive example of croatia is a necessary precondition for maintaining the european perspective of other western balkan countries. we will certainly do our utmost to advance them through the stabilisation and association process. the czech presidency is also ready to continue developing the southern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy and improving relations with partner countries in the framework of this project. these include the strengthening of eu-israel relations and the middle east peace process in general, and the current dramatic developments in this area should not deter us. on the contrary, they emphasize the need to pursue a peaceful solution. the european priority in the world is, last but not least, the area of internal security. the nature of the current security threats is increasingly out of its reach. building an area of freedom, security and justice is a common eu interest that touches the lives of all our citizens. in this context, the presidency will seek to further progress in schengen cooperation, police and customs cooperation and cooperation between member states in civil and criminal matters. we are aware that the end of our presidency will be marked by the elections to the european parliament, a more tense political atmosphere and the need to delay the legislative process for selected legislative acts so that they do not fall under the table. we are also about to start discussions on a new european commission. he will also continue the debate with ireland on the fate of the lisbon treaty during the czech presidency. i believe that these talks must be conducted with sensitivity and with respect for the sovereignty of the irish people. moreover, if a referendum on the lisbon treaty were held in the czech republic, it would also not have passed. we must find a solution that the irish people can accept. which will no doubt help us in our domestic policy debate. i said at the beginning that the czech question is also a european question. perhaps no other nation has devoted as much space, effort and time to the debate about its own identity as the czechs. we know well from our own history what the european union is going through, as it searches for its own identity and the meaning of its existence. as the presidency, we therefore offer the community a two-decade experience of finding our own historical role, our own place in the family of european nations. the czech republic's relationship with europe was well-defined by the critic and philosopher františek václav krejčí more than seventy years ago: 'we do not mean the heart of europe in the czech republic in the geographical sense, but in the cultural and intellectual sense. we are in the very heart of the continent, where the influences of all its sides converge, and we feel surrounded by all the peoples of europe, if not directly, then at least thanks to the imaginative power of cultural creations. we call ourselves the crossroads of the currents of the mind, and that is why we are called to mediate, especially to mediate between the west and the east. i think these words are also inspiring at the beginning of 2009, when the czech republic has the task of moderating the debate in the european union for six months. thank you for your attention.
mr president of the european council! we thank you for your very constructive and comprehensive report and wish you all the best for your presidency.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you are the last presidency of the council in this european parliamentary term. the first presidency of this term was the dutch presidency, led by mr balkenende. no one remembers what he said here or what we said back. that is why what we are discussing and achieving over the next five to six months is the basic prerequisite for a high turnout in the european elections. if people see that we, the presidency, parliament and the commission, are able to work together in a crisis situation to solve the tasks that lie ahead of us, then i am sure that this will create a positive, constructive atmosphere in the run-up to the european elections. that is why we social democrats in this parliament have an interest in the success of your presidency. i had some doubts at the beginning of your presidency. mr schwarzenberg says that israel is exercising its right of self-defence and is taking sides unilaterally at a time when we really need the european union as a mediator. that's corrected, that's good. you yourself say that we are not acting as a mediator in the gas dispute. that's been corrected in the meantime. you did good. there were difficulties at first, but they are now under control, and that is good. if what was uncertainty at the beginning actually leads to - and i would like to stress that mr barroso is right - the results of your activities being positive, then you have the full support of our group. the same applies to the speech you made here this morning, which we all listened to and noted with great goodwill and also with a sense of confidence for the coming months. i want to make a point of what you said. you quoted my friend joseph doyle, who said here, "he's a smart man, but he was wrong". "the financial crisis was not a defeat of capitalism. it is not really a defeat of capitalism, it is still there unfortunately. but it's a defeat for the capitalists who have been telling us for years that we don't need rules, that the market regulates itself, that it regulates everything by itself. they have been defeated, and if you, who have so far supported a policy which was more along the lines of those who said we do not need rules, declare here this morning that we need a europe of rules, then all i can say to you is that yes, we need more rules in the regulation of the financial market crisis, in dealing with it, and, mr topolánek, welcome to the club of regulators in europe, then you have also learned your lesson. (applause from the right) mr president, we are at a crucial juncture in international politics. the european union cannot allow itself to be divided into its individual parts if it wishes to play the global role described by the president of the commission, for example in the question of energy security or the conflict in gaza. then we need the union of 27 as a strong economic and political bloc. because only if we don't let ourselves be divided, will we be strong. the strength of the others is that they can always speculate that europeans speak different languages. schwarzenberg says israel is defending itself, louis michel says israel is violating international law. the european union is not a negotiating body. if the russians or the ukrainians know that half of europe is on their side and the other half on the other side, then we are not strong. but we are strong only if we have a strong contractual basis. the treaty of lisbon is a strong contractual basis. if, under your presidency, your government, which is sufficiently punished by the president you have, ratifies the treaty, that will be a strong signal for a strong europe. (applause from the centre) václav klaus is in prague castle. we'll hear from him in february. then he comes to brussels. the council of ministers has already decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the whole of the european union. charles iv built the golden road from prague to nuremberg. in his day, this was a tremendous act that was to unite peoples and nations. charles iv, before becoming german emperor with his seat in prague, was a duke of luxembourg. so those times at prague castle were really european. let's hope that soon there'll be another one sitting in prague castle who's as european as you. (applause from the centre)
the council has already taken a decision on this. six months of sarkozy's behind the european union with drama, dynamism and declarations. and now, mr president, you take over with a sense of humour that may take some getting used to. i hope that you will be a constructive and productive council president, because the eu has enormous tasks ahead of it. you yourself have spoken about the war between israel and hamas, about the economic crisis, and of course also about internal issues, the treaty of lisbon. but let me take one aspect of your speech: energy security. you have stressed the fundamental importance. i agree with you: energy is the staple of modern society. our way of life, our economy, our future development depends on it. we cannot depend on energy supplies. we need a good mix of different energy sources to be independent. i therefore hope that your open and frank approach will be able to encourage the european partners to have a new debate on nuclear energy and, above all, to encourage the german government to withdraw from nuclear energy. it is a requirement of security for our continent. there's a lot to do. this is your chance to take europe forward. i thank you and look forward to a good cooperation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am particularly pleased that the czech republic will hold the presidency of the council for the next six months. i went into political exile in germany more than 40 years ago after the occupation of czechoslovakia, and it is still a miracle to me that we can now build democracy and respect human rights in freedom in the czech republic and central europe. the current political, economic and environmental developments would present a major challenge for any council presidency. but i think she'll be fine with this one. i wish not only the czech republic but also ourselves the best for this presidency. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. perhaps you, mr topolánek, did not expect such a friendly and benevolent welcome in the european parliament. but the czech presidency of the council is an event with a touch of history. in my political life there have been two outstanding events, the restoration of german unity and the european reunification after two bloody european civil wars in the last century. the fact that the czech republic is now holding the presidency of the european parliament is an expression of the incredible historical change we are witnessing and for which we can be grateful. i assure you of the support of the epp-ed group, without reservation, without scepticism. you have rightly started the book with charles iv, who was not only one of the first architects of a transeuropean transport network, but also the founder of one of the oldest and most important european universities and thus the exponent of a european universalism which perhaps shapes us europeans at least as much as the treaties we have concluded. we are in favour of this, despite the eurosceptic sentiments we have heard from your country. we in the epp are europeans with a strong sense of purpose - there is no doubt about that - but that is precisely why we are able to identify european shortcomings and help to correct them. the lisbon treaty is an excellent instrument for correcting european shortcomings. i therefore express the hope that you, as president of the council, will contribute to the entry into force of this treaty and that your country will ratify it as soon as possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. 'europe without barriers' is a good motto because it hits at the heart of the european idea of bringing people together. i also hope that the barriers will disappear in the minds of some who still have political, if not ideological, reservations about the european union and who therefore block themselves from the further development of the eu as envisaged in the lisbon treaty. there is still much work to be done in your country. the reform treaty must come. how can you make energy policy without the basis provided for in the lisbon treaty? i can't do that. this can be seen in many other policy areas. it is absolutely unacceptable to link ratification to other domestic problems. this is unacceptable, because it is a common treaty and not a matter of internal political disputes opposition to the government or vice versa. europe is a community of values. human rights and the rule of law are at the forefront. there are also deficits in your country. i would like to take this opportunity to mention the case of dr yekta uzunoglu, who has been fighting for justice and compensation for 14 years. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the former yugoslavia, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the former yugoslavia. president sarkozy said at the end of the french presidency that the six months had changed him. i hope that you and others in the czech republic can still change through this experience.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate the czech presidency on its inauguration. this is the first presidency of the council from a former warsaw pact country and therefore also, as mr nassauer rightly said, of symbolic importance. the question of the gas negotiations, the question of the activities of president schwarzenberg in the middle east and many other examples show that the czech presidency of the council is well prepared for the work that awaits it. i would therefore like to stress the importance of what has been expressed as a strategic concept in the context of energy security. this example in particular shows that there are many areas where it is no longer possible for the nation state alone to look after the interests of its citizens, but that this can only be done with a common european claim. but, mr president-in-office, we will not have responsibility for energy and energy security until the treaty of lisbon. what we are doing now is coordinating and not binding. many of the things we must tackle as challenges are only possible through the possibilities of action offered by the treaty of lisbon, through the possibilities of increased democratisation, namely the strengthening of the rights of the european parliament and the strengthening of the rights of the national parliaments. i therefore suspect that the german translation was not correct when i heard in the german translation that you said that the treaty of nice might be better than the treaty of lisbon. you should be able to correct the german version. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. thank you very much.
in writing. - abstained on the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2252/2004 on standards for security features and biometric data in passports and travel documents issued by the member states. the report proposes to limit biometric surveillance of eu citizens by exempting children under 12 from the obligation to provide biometric data. this exception is very welcome. however, i am opposed to biometric authentication systems on principle. they lead to increased police state surveillance of citizens. security is not achieved that way. since the report accepts this monitoring in principle, i could not agree with it. a refusal would have meant that i rejected the improvement you mentioned. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - i voted against the catania report. i am surprised that the services of the house have allowed the report in its present form at all. it is a lasting violation of the principle of subsidiarity. the content of almost everything is to be criticized. the national states must not be deprived of their powers or allow them to be deprived of their powers when it comes to fundamental rights. here, attempts have been made to suppress minority rights which are not feasible at national level, at the expense of the majority. a positive attitude towards abortion is unthinkable to me. the real issue, human rights and their implementation over the last four years, is not being addressed.
in writing. - i rejected the report. the demands made in it go far beyond what i understand by transparency. i also think that the publication of attendance and voting records of colleagues without extensive additional explanatory possibilities is dangerous. i have a high profile, so i'm not suspicious. the aim is to ensure that the protection of personal data of members of parliament is also guaranteed. in europe, public meetings of the council and the commission would be a way of achieving greater transparency before members are forced to undress to the last shirt. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the negotiations.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in the middle east/gaza. it is a particular pleasure to welcome the president of the council, mr schwarzenberg, who is due to travel to south africa today. the previous presidencies then made it so that the foreign ministers were represented. we are particularly grateful to you, mr schwarzenberg, for coming here today. welcome to the club. we are of course also pleased that the commissioner responsible, mrs benita ferrero-waldner, is here, as she almost always is, and she is very familiar with the problems of the middle east conflict and, like foreign minister schwarzenberg, has also been to the region. commissioner, you are also welcome.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. debates of the kind we have today are very difficult for all of us. they are difficult because israel is a friendly country, because many of us - i can say this for myself in a special way - feel connected to this country in a deep friendship. this makes it all the more important to talk openly with friends about controversial issues. this conflict has so far claimed 1,000 lives in 17 days. this is a bloody conflict, and women and children are the most affected. we have a united nations resolution that would be a basis for declaring and negotiating a ceasefire now. it is quite clear that the conflict can only be resolved on the basis of international law, and that respect for international law and international humanitarian law must be a matter of course for a democratic state governed by the rule of law. it's a shame we have to discuss this. so the call for the guns to be silenced now is all we can do to deal with the humanitarian crisis. this is not something we say in our resolution, but something which is vital to ending death, hunger and misery immediately and immediately. there is clearly the right of self-defence of the state of israel. there is a right of this state to defend itself against people whose goal is the destruction of this state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. in my view - and i think that is the view of most of my colleagues in this house - the funds are not proportionate. we must tell our friends in israel, regardless of their political orientation, that we know that hamas is not a peace movement. we know that hamas is run by people who do not share our basic values, and of course any rocket fired at israel is an attack that this state has the right to defend itself against. but it is still a mistake to refuse to talk. if dialogue is the basic condition for peaceful development, then the refusal of dialogue is the perpetuation of armed struggle, of armed conflict. so there is a need for a fundamental correction. we'll have to talk to hamas. if israel cannot do this directly - i understand that israeli politicians say we cannot talk to them, although there are a lot of citizens in the country who believe it should be done - if mps and members of the government say they don't want to do this, then there are plenty of international mediation opportunities. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is a fundamental mistake to believe that there will be a military solution to this conflict in the middle east in the end. i think that is a fundamental mistake on both sides. there will be no solution through terrorist actions and there will be no solution through conventional military strikes. the only solution is dialogue between the parties to the conflict, including international mediation. we need a ceasefire now. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to prevent the spread of the disease. that would be a way of achieving a ceasefire and improvement. when i was a young lad and i went into politics, i was told that you don't talk to terrorists. the main terrorist at that time was yasser arafat. a few years later, i saw pictures on tv that this terrorist leader was awarded the nobel peace prize together with israeli politicians. what was possible then may be possible in the future. the question is therefore whether we can get to the point where the mechanisms available lead to the necessary dialogue. if our resolution, which i would like to thank on behalf of my group to all those who have worked on it, including those from the other group, is supported by all the groups in this house, i think that is a good sign, that it can contribute to improving the atmosphere, then we have made a small contribution to ending a dying that is unbearable for everyone. (applause from the left)
thank you very much, luisa morgantini. i would like to express my respect to you for having been in gaza on your own initiative, along with other colleagues, in those days!
i'm sure mr schulz will be pleased that you mentioned him in connection with the holy father.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i'd like to describe my starting point. we have a hamas that is against a two-state solution, that rejects the right of the state of israel to exist, that has brutally seized power against its own people, that fires rockets at civilians and uses civilians as well as schools and mosques as shields. how can we respond proportionately to the use of civilians as shields to protect our own civilians? therefore, the concept of comparison and proportionality is not applicable in such a situation. there is no proportionality in war, but every war and every death is too much, and you cannot make such a calculation. that seems to me the sensible starting point. we must not, therefore, make such unilateral accusations, but try to bring about a ceasefire and help to bring it about. i think that both president schwarzenberg and his delegation and commissioner ferrero-waldner, with the help of other national delegations, have done more here than anyone else. i have not seen the americans, i have hardly seen the un, i have not seen other members of the quartet, and i would like to thank you for that. we must see that this ceasefire involves two things: the israeli attack must be stopped and at the same time new missiles from korea and iran, which can reach tel aviv, must be prevented from falling into the hands of hamas. for this reason, it is necessary not only to ensure that the shooting stops, but also to ensure that this 15 km border is controlled in such a way that no more missiles can be brought in, through international agreements, including the quartet and the arab league, with the core country of egypt. at the same time, an end to the israeli aggression must be achieved. let me make one final remark: this is only the first small step. if israel wants to deal with moderate palestinians in the future - and this means a two-state solution - then after this is over, we must finally ensure that the moderate palestinians around president abbas have successes and can present successes to their own people. this means an end to resettlement policies and many others, because if the moderates cannot show their people success, the radicals will win. this must be the starting point of a new israeli policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on sunday, january 11th, we visited the border town of rafah in the gaza strip, which is completely sealed off. this means that the civilian population has no chance of escaping the daily bombing of the israeli army. unless you have seen it with your own eyes, you cannot imagine the suffering of the people of gaza and the urgent need for a swift, peaceful and final solution to the conflict. we have all been deeply affected by the enormous suffering and destruction of the palestinian people. i therefore urge you again and again: the israeli bombing must stop immediately. the rocket fire from hamas to israel must also be stopped immediately and the smuggling of arms from egypt to gaza must be stopped. the commission is also proposing to open the borders immediately to allow existing aid supplies to enter the area to provide for the civilian population. at the border, we also saw that doctors were ready to go into gaza to provide help, but because the borders were closed, they could not do so. i therefore ask you once again to open the borders so that aid can be delivered.
i am not going to go into detail. i really must insist that we keep to the speaking time. i have never interrupted the speaker, even when the time for speaking was up, but mr schwarzenberg has already given us more of his time than we could have expected. he has until 5:20 at the latest, i'm told. please focus on the time you have entered. philippe morillon is setting an example as a general.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first, we need an immediate and permanent ceasefire on both sides. there is a broad consensus on this in the house. but even then, we as the eu and the international community cannot leave the fate of the people of gaza to hamas and israel alone. hamas is not acting in the interest of the people of gaza, because hamas knew full well that israel would respond to continuous rocket attacks. and not just during election campaigns! over the past year, polls in gaza have shown a decline in political support for hamas in favor of fatah. it is part of the hamas calculation that the large number of palestinian casualties will increase political support for hamas in a cynical way, out of solidarity among the victims. israel, on the other hand, has its eyes almost exclusively on the interests of its own citizens. international criticism is therefore directed primarily at the scale of the israeli military operation and the large number of civilian casualties it has caused. the european union must not simply negotiate another ceasefire and finance the repair of infrastructure. i can already see the letter of amendment from the commissioner: it is certainly already in the draft and will then be sent to the committee on budgets. it is not enough to watch the egyptians block the tunnel system for arms smuggling on the border with gaza. i call for the entire middle east quartet, including a strong arab presence, to join forces in and around gaza with a robust mandate to keep the peace in the interests of the people of gaza, israel and egypt. the peace process itself must be advanced rapidly. otherwise, i fear, we will see incidents like those in gaza at ever shorter intervals. neither the palestinians nor the israelis deserve this!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to say first of all that the czech presidency of the council has had a very difficult start and that in the context of this renewed gas crisis you could not have made up any better in these weeks for the lack of clarification in the past years on european energy policy. we are all being told that this oft-quoted word 'external energy policy' stands for something that does not exist in europe as a common strategy. beyond this dispute over russian gas, the europeans must jointly decide what kind of relationship they want to have with russia in the future. the gas is only one issue, the trade in raw materials is only one issue, but the fundamental relationship of the european union with the largest eastern neighbour on our continent must be clarified. at the same time, it is necessary to clarify how the european union intends to deal in future with the countries which are still stuck between a rock and a hard place, somewhere between russia and the european union. i think that what has happened in ukraine was foreseeable for us. that not only gazprom and the russian state are mixing politics and economic interests, but that this is also happening in ukraine, is not a surprise to those who know ukraine. the worst thing that is threatening ukraine at the moment is that what has been achieved for ukraine in terms of rapprochement and prestige in the european union could now be lost because of the interests of some political actors. the criticism of this conflict must be directed at least as much at naftogaz, rosukrenergo, the responsible men and women in the leadership and the ukrainian government as at the russian officials. this is far more than a trade conflict, and i think the czechs have done us a good turn for the last few days. i hope that the plans the commissioner has put forward will be successful. i would like to congratulate the commission on its clear position on the inappropriate attempt to re-connect the high-risk bohunice reactor. that would not help us, but would mean another breach of the treaty, but now within the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is a dramatic situation, we know that. it's irresponsible what russia and ukraine are doing. we have already - and this must be said - reproached the commission for acting relatively late. it is also true that commissioner piebalgs has dealt with this matter in an excellent way in the last few days. the expert group was a great idea, and i think it is right to thank him for what has happened in the last few days. but it's also a time to ask, why do we always react so quickly to these kinds of events? how many times has russia been singled out on this issue? it's not the first time. we have seen the gas tap turned on for several years now, and we must therefore ask ourselves: have we, as the european parliament and as the european institutions, really taken sufficient care of the question of security of supply? we have done that, or have we not dealt with other issues first? i think mr swoboda has rightly asked the question. we have been very concerned about whether and to whom and under what conditions we will sell and privatise the networks. we have spent weeks, months, worrying about how we are going to respond to the climate issue, and we have not given enough thought to the fact that there is also a very important third political project, which is the security of supply. what have we done to ensure that europe has a better energy mix, that we are less dependent? what have we done to make coal power plants a part of this? we have even discredited coal plants with our climate policy, and we have increased our dependence on gas. what have we done to protect nuclear energy more effectively? far too little, far too timid. what have we done to get other permitted pipelines in order? what have we done in the area of lng? what has happened in the field of energy policy? it is the highest railway that we care about and that is the effect of these days in energy policy to care about the issue of security of supply. that is obviously the central question.
president-in-office of the council. − i know that my friend milan horáček is a man who has been committed for a long time to observing the human rights situation in russia, and i want to thank him for doing that because this is exactly what this body, this organisation, should do. regarding the question on that particular issue, i would like to assure him that the council fully shares the concerns about developments as regards the rule of law and democracy in russia. the council is of the view that our partnership with russia must be based on respect for international law, democratic principles and human rights. therefore, the council will continue to press russia to implement fully the obligation it has signed up to as a member of the council of europe, and of course the osce, and also in the framework of the pca – the partnership and cooperation agreement with the eu. the cases quoted by you and your colleagues are of great concern and the council will continue to follow developments closely. the council raises its concerns with russia on a regular basis as part of the political dialogue, in particular in the twice-yearly human rights consultation introduced in march 2005. russia’s actions in this and other areas will be taken into account in the negotiations on a new agreement with russia – that is very important – and also in other aspects of eu-russia relations. achieving robust provisions on human rights in the new pca currently being negotiated is also one of the eu priorities as set out in the negotiation directive which was approved by the council last year. the strategic partnership with russia, which some are talking about, must be built on shared values; otherwise it would have no sense. the eu needs the new agreement, but so does russia. it is crucial that the negotiations, as well as the text of the agreement itself, mirror values which are dear to us, such as the rule of law. personally, i can promise that i would like to stress that the unity of the eu is absolutely decisive for achieving results here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a problem with the fact that in the past we have received repeated answers from the council that relations with russia are a priority, but in the specific cases of khodorkovsky, lebedev and mrs bachmina, there is no progress at all.
mr minister, i appreciate you as an experienced human rights activist, and i also have a high regard for czech creativity. so my questions are: can you help us find new ways to bring the issue of the yukos prisoners closer to a solution, after years of talking about a solution, so to develop a certain actionism? and how can the question of human rights be put a little more at the centre of the negotiations with russia than has been the case so far?
president-in-office of the council. − i think that, having a czech presidency, you cannot expect us to stay silent. i was not silent when we were discussing energy security and i was not silent in the past when we were discussing the khodorkovsky case and other cases. you probably know that we will have a troika meeting in february where the presidency will be represented by the foreign minister, karel schwarzenberg. certainly, in those cases to which you refer, we will consider the steps, but of course whether there are results or not is totally in russian hands. we can simply create a certain environment to keep up the pressure, but it is up to russia to respond.
president-in-office of the council. − i thank you for this particular question, because i come from a country which is a great friend of free trade. it is the bedrock of our economy – about 80% of our gdp is somehow produced by the activity which relates to this trade. so you can be sure that our presidency is keen that the union remains fully committed to reaching a balanced, ambitious and comprehensive agreement in the wto doha development round. we will be working hard on that. regarding the question of my presidency’s ambitions in relation to world trade liberalisation, the presidency has clearly defined its main priority on this subject in the context of the council’s 18-month programme for the french, czech and swedish presidencies, as well as in its own work programme, which was published last week and was also introduced here to some extent by the prime minister today. according to this programme, trade policy remains a very important tool for addressing the opportunities and challenges of globalisation and fostering economic growth, jobs and prosperity for all citizens in europe. efforts will be sustained to promote an open, market-oriented and rule-based world trading system for the benefit of all. trade policies should also contribute to the union’s environmental and climate objective, in particular by encouraging the expansion of trade in environmental goods and services. the union continues to stay fully committed to reaching a balanced, ambitious and comprehensive agreement in the wto doha round. moreover, my country has set three priority areas for its presidency of the council. one of these priorities will be the european union in the world. in this context my country will highlight the importance of trade policy as a means of driving forward external competitiveness, economic growth and the creation of new jobs following the eu’s new trade policy strategy called global europe, as well as under the revised strategy for growth and jobs. parallel to the multilateral system, the czech republic will back the commission’s efforts to negotiate trade agreements with promising partners or regions – such as korea, india, asean, mercosur and the andean community countries and central america, and potentially china as well – and to negotiate free trade agreements with the eu’s closest neighbours, for example ukraine, or to start such negotiations once the prerequisite conditions have been met, as in russia. the presidency will present its programme on the trade area to the committee on international trade on 20 january 2009. regarding food security in the eu, the presidency is of the opinion that protectionism will not help to secure food supply in europe or worldwide. therefore, the presidency supports the liberalisation of world trade within the framework of dda and discussions on cap reform with a view to making european agriculture more competitive. that means dismantling export refunds. these elements, such as transparent liberalisation of world trade and competitive agriculture, are the base for enhancing food security as well. food security in the eu has much to do with the international trade in food products that makes them available at competitive prices and sets the right incentives for those member states where they can be produced most effectively. food security nowadays lies not only in the local production of food, but in a country’s ability to finance the import of food through exports of other goods. in this sense, an open, multilateral trading system with a diversity of countries supplying food products may be a better guarantee for stable and secure supplies.
president-in-office of the council. − i can give you a short answer – yes! if there is free trade in agriculture, there is no hunger in the world.
mr president, it is always said that agricultural policy is only for 3% of farmers. but there's 100% food. for example, i'm a pretty good eater, and i want to be very clear: i do believe that food security is existential. we are now seeing the problems of energy dependence. that is why i am in favour of free world trade, but we must be able to feed ourselves from our own soil. that is why we must preserve our agricultural structures. we cannot leave this to the market.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the horn of africa has recently returned to the eu's spotlight. the eu's combat mission atalanta has been based here since christmas. the eu is making the mistake of fighting this mission, like nato, the usa, russia and others, with military means, with warships, to fight problems superficially. bernard kouchner was very much looking forward to the opportunity to take part in a naval operation off somalia, ten years after saint-malo. the real causes are the unfair distribution of resources, for example by overfishing, including by fishing trawlers from the european union. in somalia, for example, the west is supporting a government that does not really exist with all its resources. the ethiopian occupation forces have now withdrawn from somalia, and more than 16 000 people have been killed since the ethiopian troops entered. the way in which these countries in the horn of africa are treated is illustrated by the case of djibouti. all sorts of western countries have military bases there, but at the same time there is an authoritarian regime on the ground. the people of the region must be helped - not with warships that only protect the trade routes of the west, but with humanitarian aid, for example.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. somalia is a failed state with all the terrible consequences that this has. you have done a very good job of what needs to be done here, as my friend ana gomes has made very clear. piracy is only part of this problem, but it is an important part of this problem because piracy is very deeply rooted in this region. secondly, it is also a question of protecting the european union's sea lanes. this is in the self-interest of the european union and its citizens. that is why we have the esdp operation atalanta, which is the first sea operation under the esdp. the operational command is in the uk, which is also new, and the leader is a british vice admiral, admiral jones. the first is to protect food aid and ensure that it can actually reach somalia, the second is to fight piracy and act accordingly. we had a call with the operations team in northwood. it became clear that there are also some things that are missing, such as tankers, reconnaissance aircraft - there is a very large territory to be monitored - helicopters, manned and unmanned reconnaissance aircraft. we all have a shared interest in making this operation atalanta a success. this is necessary, on the one hand, to protect our sea lanes, but also to make a contribution - even if it is only a small one - to the problem of the failed state of somalia.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the president of the czech republic, alexandra vondry. the belarusian government has sent out signals of openness by allowing the opposition movement for the freedom of alexander milinkievitch and releasing political prisoners. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we want belarus to find its place in europe. we have been waiting for this for a long time and are ready to resume relations, but only under clear conditions. this is above all respect for human rights. this applies not only to freedom of the press and freedom of expression but to the whole of political, social and private life of each individual. the fraud in the elections and the attacks on the opposition are not forgotten, and we are following developments very closely. in october we decided to suspend the entry ban on president lukashenko. it is necessary that the belarusian side also allows european delegations to enter in order to allow debates with opposition members. our experience teaches us that every dictatorship will end.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, srebrenica, as we all know, was a horrible crime. the massacre of more than 8 000 bosniaks in and around srebrenica marks one of the darkest historical moments of bosnia and herzegovina, of the former yugoslavia and also of europe as a whole. it is without a doubt the worst atrocity in europe since the second world war. looking back, much more could have been done, and earlier. srebrenica was a collective failure of the international community, the eu included. that is a great shame and we deeply regret this fact. it is our moral, human and political obligation that a srebrenica never happens again. marking the 10th anniversary of the srebrenica massacre, the council expressed its renewed condemnation of the crimes committed and extended it s compassion for the victims and their families. the council, recalling the un security council resolutions 1503 and 1534, underlined that full and unrestricted cooperation with the icty remain an essential requirement for continuing progress towards the eu. the transfer to the hague of the remaining fugitive indictees who continue to elude international justice would be a fitting tribute to the victims of srebrenica as well as a major stride towards permanent peace, stability and reconciliation. therefore, the council remains determined that the perpetrators of crimes in srebrenica and in bosnia and herzegovina in general, as well as elsewhere in the region of the western balkans, must be brought to justice. at the same time, throughout history european integration has proved helpful to heal wounds and injustice of the past, so we need to concentrate on the future as well. the eu as the integrating factor brought peace, stability, trust and prosperity to europe in the second half of the last century. helping the western balkans on the path towards the eu therefore belongs to the priorities of the czech presidency in the domain of external relations. reconciliation is vital for integration and reconciliation is difficult if justice is not served fully. after 13 years it is time to bring the shameful srebrenica episode to a closure. karadžić’s arrest has proved that there is no impunity for such monstrous crimes as those against humanity. still, ratko mladić needs to be brought to the hague so that the families of the srebrenica victims can be helped to deal with the past and embrace their future. the eu will keep doing everything in its power to make this happen. but also a lot more needs to be done so that srebrenica turns from a sad historical memory to a place where life does offer prospects. the international community’s engagement does not take place in a vacuum: it is actively combined with the local actions on the state level, as well as by both entities. a lot of good endeavours have been carried out. srebrenica’s future can be best secured through economic development and job creation to improve economic and social conditions of the population of the srebrinica region. the republika srpska authorities, as well as the bosnia and herzegovina council of ministers and the federation, provided funding and investment for the srebrenica region. the allocated assets were aimed for srebrenica recovery including construction, reconstruction, infrastructure development, business promotion, improvement of public services, projects with sustainable return and education. all those local efforts were underpinned also with the donor conference for srebrenica organised just over a year ago, in november 2007. this might be a good occasion for an appeal to provide more new investment for this city and its region. it is of the utmost importance that srebrenica is never forgotten and that a joint effort continues. we all in the eu, the international community and the local authorities pursue working constructively together to improve living conditions in the srebrenica area. only the prospect of a better life can help to reduce the political tension, creating a space for dialogue and consequently allowing the still grieving victims’ relatives to move on. that would be the best possible tribute to the victims of srebrenica.
member of the commission. − mr president, in july 1995, close to 8 000 men and boys were murdered and disappeared in srebrenica. the highest courts of international law have called this massacre by its proper name: genocide. while continuing our pursuit of justice against the perpetrators, i think it is right that we should remember the victims and express our compassion for their families. i therefore join you today in supporting this initiative to recognise 11 july as the day of the commemoration of the srebrenica genocide. srebrenica stands as a symbol of horror and inconsolable grief. remembrance is as painful as it is necessary. it is necessary because we cannot, and we must not, forget. it is necessary to counter the selective remembrance of those who remain in denial, until this day, about what really took place. recognition of what happened in july 1995 is fundamental to reconciliation within bosnia and herzegovina and in the regional process. proclaiming 11 july as the european commemorative day for the victims of srebrenica should therefore be a further step towards reconciliation within bosnia and herzegovina and the region. i think it would be an opportunity to send a message, not just of respect and memory, but also of hope for the future – a future within the european union, built on reconciliation, allowing wounds to heal over time. but recognition alone is not sufficient. justice is equally essential. i think it is important that all perpetrators of those atrocities be brought to justice, be prosecuted and pay for the crimes that they have committed. it is therefore unacceptable after so many years that general ratko mladić remains at large. the commission fully supports the work of the international criminal tribunal for yugoslavia, the icty. we welcome bosnia and herzegovina’s cooperation with the icty and its handling of cases transferred by the tribunal to local jurisdiction. we, as the commission, use every opportunity to encourage the authorities to continue their efforts and ensure that all crimes are duly prosecuted. in addition to the justice of the courts, we can offer a second form of justice for the victims, and that is a better future for their loved ones who survived. this is at the heart of our eu’s efforts in the western balkans. we want the countries of the region to move towards a common european future. we want to see a prosperous bosnia and herzegovina within a stable, regional context where borders matter less and trust among neighbours is restored. we know this will be a long journey but, if the history of the european union and its enlargement tells us anything, then it is that this journey is worthwhile for all concerned. we cannot travel the road to the european union for bosnia and herzegovina. it will itself have to meet the conditions and overcome its internal challenges by its own means, but we can help. we will help and we want this country to succeed as the triumph of the survivors over those who had other designs.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. no more war, no more concentration camps and no more genocide! after the horrors of world war ii, no one in europe could imagine that this could happen again. but it could happen: in the mid-1990s, six years after the fall of the berlin wall, in the middle of the peaceful convergence of western and central europe, it happened in bosnia and herzegovina. the mistakes made by the international community - through long years of looking the other way, of dealing almost carelessly with the minions there, of shaking hands amicably with criminals such as ratko mladić - have encouraged him and his accomplices to believe that they would get away with it if they followed years of ethnic expulsion, ethnic cleansing and mass murder. to this day, ratko mladić has not been brought to justice. who's hiding him? who's helping him and putting more guilt on himself and him? many other perpetrators are also still at large, some of them still living in bosnia and herzegovina and meeting the survivors of the victims. we must therefore insist that not only the war crimes tribunal in the hague but also the local war crimes tribunals in bosnia and herzegovina themselves can function properly. the day of remembrance we have started is to shake things up, to set a sign against oblivion, to show the bereaved that we grieve with them. perhaps this day can serve to raise awareness of this terrible guilt even among those who still do not believe that it happened, as evidenced by the video footage itself. then the foundation for a necessary reconciliation could be laid. without the recognition of direct and indirect responsibility for this massacre, there can be no peace. we owe that to the victims and survivors, and the conviction of the perpetrators.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the resolution contains very clear and critical words towards the un, including the european institutions. the inadequate decision-making mechanisms in the field of foreign and security policy were not adequate to prevent the terrible crimes in srebrenica. the lack of a unified voice is still a shortcoming in the area of european neighbourhood policy, as was shown once again in today's debate on the gaza conflict. the massacre in srebrenica must never be forgotten. we therefore welcome and support the initiative to establish 11 june as a day of remembrance for the victims of this genocide. at the same time, however, there must be reconciliation on both sides. this can only happen by a consistent processing of what has happened. it is therefore totally unacceptable that the perpetrators and accused of this crime are still at large. i believe that not only mladić, but also the other guilty parties must be brought to justice.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are discussing a subject again, where you will quickly notice that on the one hand there are strong emotions, but on the other hand there are also very concrete realities. i would like to thank our chairman of the committee on agriculture, neil parish, for this request. the question was important, but not to convey emotion, but to ask very specifically: what happened, commissioner? how can the things that have developed be proved? do you have any proof? what proof do you have? what are your numbers? you gave me some numbers. i am convinced that there are many more differences between member states than just the fact that one state has reported and the other state has not. how is it implemented? how are the long hauls controlled? how are they controlled in the individual member states? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, what additional training in transportation does a trained farmer need to have? how does he do that? who does he have to do that to? where does he have to prove that to get the certificate? again, the farmer is trained and deals with animals. in contrast, we have the transporter, who hires a driver who may never have dealt with animals in his life. these are two things that cannot be equated. we've pretty much equated them. the second thing that causes big problems is that if a farmer is transporting his own calf, he can do this up to 50 kilometres. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so, he can transport his own animal 30 miles, but if he takes his neighbor's, he's in trouble. we must also think about this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not distorted. a farmer may transport a horse for hobby purposes without any problem, without this regulation being applicable. if he transports it to the market, the regulation applies and he must comply with the conditions. these are questions which we should be answering and discussing in the future debates.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to thank neil parish for the question and the commission for its reply. europe is envied in the world for many things: our fashion, our lifestyle, our social security systems, and increasingly we are also envied for our diet. we europeans do well to put the emphasis on the healthiest diet possible, the mediterranean diet. to clarify the definition, the mediterranean diet is based on a dietary pattern that is typical of the island of crete, large parts of greece, and southern italy. that's where the term comes from. the commissioner has already said that the main ingredient is olive oil. this is another reason, mr špidla, for the whole commission to protect this european product even better. the mediterranean diet continues to include high-fiber bread, large amounts of vegetables and fruit, so we welcome the commission's school fruit programme, moderate amounts of fish and dairy products, but also wine. it's scientifically proven -- and this is a finding from the british medical journal, september 2008 -- that the mediterranean diet helps reduce cardiovascular disease. the modern epidemic in europe, namely to stop type 2 diabetes, to reduce cancer, and to mitigate the effects of alzheimer's and parkinson's. a visit to cemeteries on the island of crete will show you that. when you see how old people get there and my father is from crete, you will realize that. we must therefore do everything we can to ensure that the mediterranean diet is also adopted in europe and beyond, and the inclusion of the mediterranean diet on the world heritage list is an important step. i thank the commission for its efforts. but we also have to see that if china and india adopt the american diet, which they are increasingly doing, then it has a threefold negative impact. first, the health of the world's population is getting worse. secondly, there will be more mass livestock farming with all the negative effects on the environment, and thirdly, there will be methane production, because most of the meat will be beef. cattle produce methane, and that's bad for the world's climate. that's why it's so important to take this step. thank you again, neil parish.
i thank you very much, mr wurtz, for this information. if that is the case, the vote we are about to take is all the more urgent.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for giving me the floor. i would ask you and the other members to allow me to make two comments, firstly on the resolution before us and then a personal comment on a member of this house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we are all very impressed this morning before we vote by what francis wurtz has just reported. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the new treaty on european union. in this case, an appeal must be made in particular to israel to respect the institutions of the international community, because otherwise the maintenance of the humanitarian infrastructure is not guaranteed, which is certainly not in accordance with international law. but on the other hand, we decided to support this resolution because, after a long debate last night, we believe that it is important and right to adopt it at this time and that the signals we are sending, including the signals that the european parliament is sending as an institution, are necessary. but one thing is certain: the development of violence, which is no longer even possible outside schools and kindergartens, is a development that cannot be regretted but must be condemned in the strongest terms. that is not what is in the resolution, but we want to say that because we believe that we are expressing the sentiments of many colleagues, including those from other groups, we want to say that. let me say something today to a colleague who has made great contributions to peace in the world and in the european union throughout his political career. this is the last plenary session today in which my colleague michel rocard will be participating. for us socialists, but i think for all of us... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
thank you very much, mr. schulz. since i was unable to attend yesterday's reception because the president of the european council, the prime minister of the czech republic, mr mirek topolánek, was here, i should like to say to mr rocard: mr michel rocard, i would like to express my highest esteem and friendship to you and wish you good luck and success in all that you are about to do. i hope we shall see each other often and i thank you for your great contribution to european unity. thank you very much, michel rocard! (applause from the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to propose, in consultation with the other groups, the following amendment: to replace 'a special responsibility' with 'an important role', so that it would read: 'which implies an important role for egypt'.
i would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that i will now attempt, in my capacity as president of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, to obtain a resolution from the bureau of that parliamentary assembly similar to the one you have just adopted here in the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we all agreed to add item 3. the third point concerns the role of the international court of justice in the hague. we would like to add the following sentence:reiterates in that regard that increased attention needs to be paid to war crime trials at domestic level;
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank the czech foreign minister and president of the council, prince schwarzenberg, and the foreign affairs commissioner, mrs ferrero-waldner, for their presence in our debate yesterday and my colleagues for the almost unanimous vote today. the eu is in fact much more closed than is claimed. if we maintain this unity, we can also achieve something in the middle east. that is why we must continue along this line. the elements are clear: yes to israel's right to exist, no to war and bloodshed, no to hamas's rocket fire, no to hamas's terrorist system, and above all - which is very important - we need negotiations on the contentious issues, including the settler problem, which is at the heart of the whole, alongside the unacceptable terrorism of hamas. that means the basic elements are on the table. it is therefore our task as the eu to move things forward with energy and determination, rather than becoming again a fragmented debate club, as we have unfortunately been in recent years on the question of middle east policy.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the resolution on the situation in gaza. it is essential that the european parliament should express its views on the crisis. the european parliament has a duty to condemn this humanitarian disaster, which it claims to be a moral leader in respecting human rights. the ep cannot remain silent any longer. that is why i voted for this resolution. the ep could have sent a stronger signal. the resolution remains too weak on some points. it is important that we call for a lasting ceasefire and condemn the suffering of the civilian population. but it is also our duty to identify concrete solutions to end the war and to call on the eu to promote them in the framework of the quartet. the eu must be even more committed to the united states, which is paralysed by the change of presidency. a pause in the negotiations on an upgrade in relations with israel is appropriate because of such a disproportionate military action. unfortunately, we do not mention any of this in the resolution. if israel does not want to negotiate directly with hamas, it is also the eu's job to make sure that others do. the military offensive is costing too many lives. lip service is not enough in a humanitarian crisis of this magnitude.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i have my office in munich on a street where many christian armenians from iran live. they are members of one of the oldest christian communities in the world and are also patriotic persians. this shows that iran, or persia, has a long tradition of tolerance, of religious tolerance, but also of tolerance towards the many peoples that make up this great empire. it is absolutely un-iranian and un-persian to rule as intolerantly as this mullah regime does. it goes against the noblest and best traditions of one of the oldest states on earth. we are therefore acting in the interests of the iranian people and their future by denouncing these abuses more clearly than before. mrs. shirin ebadi, who did this at great risk and for which she won the nobel peace prize, does this again and again for all ethnic groups, for all religious communities. we cannot tolerate her being persecuted in such a terrible and pathetic way. she needs our solidarity. i therefore appeal to the czech presidency of the council to apply its good human rights policy also in this matter.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 15 january 2009.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 29 january 2009 in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: mrs roure has withdrawn her request for a summary of her report (a6-0024/2009) on minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers in the member states. the report will therefore be put to the vote on thursday. thursday: the uen group proposes that the sub-item 'situation in the philippines' be replaced by a new sub-item 'brazil's refusal to extradite cesare battisti'.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
meanwhile, our new and former colleague, martin kastler, has arrived. he tells me he was stuck in traffic. to avoid a delay, there are two options: either to start a little earlier or to improve the transeuropean networks.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur, anne laperrouze, for her very good cooperation. i would also like to thank the staff in the secretariats for their really important contribution. the second review of the energy strategy is timely in the light of the recent gas crisis. the security of supply and solidarity between member states must be central to european energy policy. i am convinced that the call for greater diversification of gas corridors contained in this report would bring a clear improvement. the commission must also submit a proposal before the end of the year to revise the 2004 gas directive to include binding and effective national and eu emergency plans. but it is of fundamental importance to us social democrats in the european parliament that the eu member states pay special attention to the most vulnerable consumers in society, those who suffer from energy poverty, even in normal times. there is still a lack of national strategies to tackle the problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the report stresses the particular importance of energy saving and energy efficiency. the most effective and cost-effective way to improve security of supply is clearly to increase energy efficiency and save energy. at the same time, we need to set ambitious and realistic targets for europe's energy future. i am glad that we are doing this, among other things, with the call for 60% renewable energy by 2050. it also stresses the particular importance of local initiatives for successful climate and energy policy. the covenant of mayors is a key player in this. it is also important to support concepts such as the idea of the covenant of iceland. the basic principle is that without investment in network infrastructure and further liberalisation of the internal market, our objectives will be difficult to achieve. we need a functioning internal energy market with fair competition, guaranteeing both free access to the grid and equal distribution of energy to all producers. the next few weeks will be crucial. we need the establishment and expansion of an intelligent electricity grid, as ict-supported combined-cycle power plants and decentralized energy production. this is the only way to ensure that energy is used efficiently where it is needed. we need a european supergrid that unlocks and connects the enormous potential in the north sea, the baltic and the mediterranean. the report does not support the call for the commission to draw up a specific roadmap for nuclear investment. that is why my group has tabled an amendment which clearly emphasizes the common interest in nuclear safety, but at the same time stresses that it must remain the sovereignty of the member states whether they invest in nuclear energy. i say, as a personal comment, we don't need this energy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i regret to say that, despite a very good working atmosphere in the strategic energy review, we have not achieved the corrections to the commission's proposal that i would have thought necessary. i think the title of the strategic energy review is very promising. but if you look at this review, you have to say: that is all very much yesterday! at the heart of this strategic energy planning - and unfortunately the laperrouze report does not correct this - is the old energy mix of coal and nuclear, and in fact it once again places extreme emphasis on the nuclear pillar. i really wonder, commissioner piebalgs, what has become of the plans you put forward at the beginning of this parliamentary term. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. none of this is regulated, and yet there is this commission push now per atom. the fact that finland is currently facing one of the largest bankruptcies in the history of the nuclear industry in western europe, that the sum in dispute between the finnish energy company and areva now amounts to 2.4 billion because of so many additional costs incurred in olkiluoto, you do not seem to be thinking about that at all. i wonder what this new surge of investment is doing in a sector which, despite decades of public funding - far more than in any other sector - is now producing this bankruptcy again. i'd like to know if you're really serious about all this, or if you've been played by others. i believe that this very coal-nuclear mix is the strategy that has led the european union's energy policy to a dead end. i have said enough about nuclear energy, but the wasteful use of fossil fuels - and this review does not really address this issue - has led us to climate catastrophe, and the essential corrections to this old strategy of yesterday are not included in this review. my group has clearly set out the priorities in the negotiations on mrs laperrouze's report - not nuclear, that goes without saying. but we have also tried to make a real difference in other areas. we wanted to make this efficiency target of saving 20% of primary energy finally binding. that's not what happened. we are waiting for a serious proposal to develop the supergrid, a network which must be able to absorb very large renewable energy production capacities in the north sea, on the coasts or in the south from the desert regions. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we also believe that it is a big mistake that the entire transport sector has been excluded from this strategic energy planning because we want to get away from dependence on oil, as you do. you leave that to other discussions. we believe that this question should be a central point in this strategic energy planning. diversification of gas supplies - that is good and beautiful, and we should do that too. but at the same time, everything must be done to ensure that gas is used efficiently. otherwise, diversification will not do us any good in the end. i was shocked last week to see that the european commission's recovery plan addresses all these strategic imbalances, the backward-looking of this strategic energy review. i would like to announce on behalf of my group that we will not support the laperrouze report or the strategic energy plan and will try to promote sustainability and rationality in the recovery plan.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank mrs laperrouze and commissioner piebalgs very warmly for the templates and documents. i don't always agree with every detail in detail. but the strategic direction is correct. it is right and necessary to focus more on the fact that security of supply is one of the key issues. perhaps we have been too preoccupied with other energy policy issues in the past year. i am very grateful that security of supply is again in the spotlight. secondly, i am also grateful that such a differentiated position is being put forward. like i said, you don't have to sign every item. but it is true that what is in this report is contrary to what mr turmes has just proposed. mr turmes, it is wrong to think that there is a simple answer, that there is only one answer to this huge, complicated problem. it is always the attempt of politics to give a quick, simple answer and to satisfy all the people. you can't do that! it's a hell of a lot harder, and that's why the answer is so many ways. we cannot make promises to people and pretend that we have a solution and hop-a-hop everything is fine. and besides, people will be bitterly disappointed one day when they find out that it doesn't work that way. differentiated means that there is not just one energy source, but that we will work with several for a long time. it's not morally right to give up a source of energy. i think it is irresponsible to ignore nuclear energy. it is part of it, and it is not the only solution, of course, but it is a contribution that needs to be seen. i also caution against relying too much on the gas. we've heard a lot about what that means for addiction. i also ask that we not lightly abandon coal - an energy source we have in our country and in several places in europe - and say: coal means co2, so it cannot be. that would be irresponsible. the differentiated answer is also required for the question of the different routes and paths. there is no one answer for a pipeline, as mr rübig has just said. it's wrong to bet on just one. we must open up different paths and possibilities. no one today can predict with certainty what will be 10, 20, or 30 years from now. in this respect, saying yes to intelligent solutions is the right way to go. because intelligence means being diverse, being open, taking in new things, not being fixed. the answer is technology. the answer is to invest in research and to be open to solutions that we may not even see today, and not to be recklessly closed off to any possibilities. that means yes to investment. it would be fatal - and it is a mistake in some energy policy decisions - to give too little space and too little support to those who have to invest the money, namely the companies. does anyone really think that we, the member states, the state or the community of states, will solve the problem of investment? no, the private sector will have to do that.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is about the impact of the economic partnership agreements on development. the word economic partnership agreement has eight syllables in german. it is a terrible word and it is certainly not something that will be discussed by many people in germany, although it will be one of the most important topics for the next few years. what's this all about? the cotonou treaty provided for the conclusion of economic partnership agreements between the european union and the acp states by the end of 2007. the background was that developing countries which were not and are acp states had complained to the wto that the european union was granting special advantages to the acp states. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of the caribbean. my report says that these agreements will form a new basis for development cooperation. it's about helping yourself. it is a question of linking trade and development, that is to say trade and development policy. of course there are frictions, and there have been frictions, particularly here in parliament, between our committee, the committee on regional development and the committee on international trade. the main issues were the compatibility of these agreements with the rules of the world trade organisation and, in particular, the question of parliamentary scrutiny. i had originally two paragraphs in my report - paragraphs 5 and 17 - which dealt with the question of parliamentary control. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. apart from the deletions, my draft report is identical to the first. it describes the opportunities and also the risks of the economic partnership agreements, but in particular it emphasises the potential of the positive impact of these agreements on the people in the countries. before i conclude, mr president, let me say one more thing: it is repeatedly pointed out by some members of this house that the people of the acp states have had too little time to conclude these agreements. that's not true, man. you had time from 2000 to 2007, you had another year until 2008, we still have time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is in the interest of the people of the acp states, and that is why i ask all the members of this house to vote in favour of my report on thursday, including those who originally intended to reject it. it is not a question of a controversy between the right and the left, but of helping the people of the acp states to build up their self-confidence and to make them equal partners in international trade in the foreseeable future.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is urgent that the commission should put forward this new proposal. we have also received specific questions and suggestions from the committee on women's rights and gender equality. it is necessary that we go beyond the daphne programme and also tackle legislative initiatives in the field of child pornography. this is of course also the responsibility of users, but states must act. i see that we would also have an important instrument, for example, with europol, and with a good network of experts and a special unit trained in the very specific issues and able to combat child pornography and child prostitution. the question of extraterritoriality should also be resolved; we need a common european approach here. we need more background information concrete studies on the situation of victims in the social environment, where often families themselves abuse and put children in the net. we must be very specific here. i hope that the commission is prepared to work closely with the women's committee too, and that we can then clarify these questions together.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts and initiative in this report. the protection of children in the use of the internet and the fight against child pornography are the most urgent issues we need to address. it is important to me to raise the level of protection of this framework decision on the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. the abuse of children through the internet can only be addressed as a joint effort at european level, especially since the internet knows no national borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first, the balance between child safety and data protection must be maintained. this should take into account not only the personal data of the child but also personal data relating to persons and content relevant for the purpose of that protection of children. the commission is also proposing to establish a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and to establish a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of children against sexual exploitation. only by tackling the root causes of the problem can we succeed in combating this abuse. we need to target those who provide this service, these services, these heinous crimes to others and profit from it. in addition to the criminalisation of offenders, which is the subject of mrs angelilli's report, there is also a need to raise awareness among children and to inform them of the risks of using the internet. the development of new technological methods and the establishment of the principle of privacy by design must be intensified. the exchange of information and experience between the various authorities in the member states must also be strengthened. the data protection authorities of the member states have an important intermediary role to play here, and only a comprehensive approach will be effective. i am not, however, in favour of making internet service providers an extension of law enforcement. much better are the agreements that internet service providers cooperate with law enforcement agencies on a voluntary basis, as they already do in practice. child pornography and all its excesses are nothing more and nothing less than a crime against humanity which we must combat with the greatest vigour. we must ensure that the member states cooperate with us and that we are united in this parliament. i therefore assume that we in the alde group can fully support the resolution contained in mrs angelillis' report.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, claudio fava, on this report and on the fact that an agreement has been reached in the trilogue. of course, more can be demanded and more can or could be achieved. but the fact that the european union has finally recognised that even illegal immigrants, when they are caught, must be given rights, that they must be protected against exploitative practices, is an important step forward. of course, you have to see this as part of a whole concept of migration, of immigration. that's not in dispute. but now i do not understand: if the greens - jean lambert is no longer here - or the leftists of the so-called communist side, like giusto catania, say that this does not work, that this is nothing, that this cannot help, then i would like to say that it does not help to promise people who live in these difficult situations a four-course menu, but not to give them their daily bread. it is cowardly, it is not helpful, and i have to ask myself what the greens really want if, when it comes to improvements for the people, they always vote against it in principle. we have seen this in many reports and actions here. it is also not forbidden that the national states finally establish proper controls, that fines are also imposed, that firms employing illegals are excluded from support measures and from national and eu funds. i would like to see the same harsh measures that the nation states sometimes take against illegal immigrants, including tax evaders and black workers. of course, we must also talk to our colleagues in the national parliaments, and ask them to demand the same rights as those granted to illegal immigrants. we also know, of course, that if someone is employed illegally because they can no longer survive in their country, they have no way of going to the police and saying that they are being exploited here, any more than a woman who has been raped, because they know that they can be deported. that is why we will very clearly support this report. it's a first step in the right direction.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think mr kreissl-dörfler is quite right in what he has said. i would like to thank mr fava for his report and for the excellent work he has done. the report makes clear that both sides must be equally held responsible for illegal employment, and thus also creates a legal balance. illegal employment must be sanctioned and prohibited in all member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the first priority is to protect these people from exploitation in their employment. the introduction of sanctions in the law is certainly a step. at the same time, however, the authorities must also be willing to increase controls and take action against infringements. the text is a compromise between the council and the european parliament and contains minimum standards. nevertheless, the possibility for member states to deviate from the guidelines upwards or downwards is not encouraging. we have taken the first step, let us walk the rest of the way together. i think i can say - at least for myself and for parts of my group, if not for the majority - that we can support this report in good conscience.
in writing. - i am against the report by angelika niebler on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america (a6-0006/2009). the content of the extended agreement differs from that of the previous agreement in that it includes the areas of 'space and security research'. since both the us and the eu explicitly plan the military use of outer space and define security primarily in military terms, it is expected that the cooperation agreement will also serve military purposes. cooperation in science and research is of the utmost importance. it must, however, be used for civilian purposes, and i reject its use for military purposes.
in writing. − the report by anna záborská clearly shows that for women the choice between non-work and employment is still a choice between two unequal alternatives. i am calling for better recognition and payment for the work of both sexes in the home, in child rearing and in caring for people in need of care. the home economy has earned a higher status than it currently enjoys. this commitment must be taken into account in the national social security and pension schemes. the call for 'solidarity between generations' is rightly made. we stand for social responsibility towards older people and do not allow entire groups to be excluded and discriminated against. the value of this integration work accounts for almost a third of the national income in germany. the contribution made by people over 50 years of age to our common good must also be recognised. the so-called 'young pensioners' are now falling into a deep hole because of their early, often forced, retirement. we need more jobs that are geared to older workers. their experience, detailed knowledge and willingness to adapt to new situations are good prerequisites for opportunities on the labour market.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the repatriation and resettlement of guantánamo prisoners and the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am certainly aware that the issue of guantánamo has been a subject of great concern to this parliament. i am also aware that this parliament, through the various resolutions adopted since 2002, has consistently expressed its opinion on that particular problem. i therefore believe that you have welcomed, as has the council, president obama’s decision to close guantánamo within a year. the presidency expressed this sentiment through a statement which was issued shortly after president obama signed the executive orders. the ministers unequivocally welcomed this decision at the last general and external affairs council meeting, as you probably know. president obama has also announced his decision to suspend military commission trials, to reaffirm the geneva convention, to end the secret detentions programme and to put a stop to enhanced interrogations. these welcome developments will enable us to strengthen even more transatlantic cooperation in the area of countering terrorism. the decision to close guantánamo is of course primarily the responsibility of the united states. nevertheless, given our shared interest in countering terrorism, and in upholding human rights and the rule of law, ministers at last week’s council discussed ways in which the member states might be able to offer practical assistance to the us and in particular whether they might accept former detainees. in his executive order to close guantánamo, president obama ordered a review of the status of all detainees. this is now under way. resettlement of detainees would concern those cleared for release in the light of this review. the question of whether member states might accept former detainees is a national decision. however, it was agreed last week that a common political response would be desirable and that the possibility of coordinated european action could be explored further. this subject raises a number of political, legal and security issues which need further study and consultation and which – and this is also very important – will require the involvement of the justice and home affairs ministers in the member states. this process has just begun, and the council will return to this issue once some of these issues have been further clarified. this is a subject of ongoing work and cops is discussing it today, for example. i fully understand the continuing interest in this parliament, as reflected in the draft resolution which has been tabled at this session, and which i have read. i would like to assure you that the presidency will pay great attention to this issue and will keep you fully informed of the outcome of further discussions in the council, as well as any other developments.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i naturally welcome the president-in-office of the council, mr vondra, and i am glad to be able to echo what he has just said, because it is obvious that the commission needs to work very closely with the presidency on this difficult problem. i would also like to express my particular sympathy for mrs benita ferrero-waldner, who was prevented from being here tonight at the last moment. so i'm going to speak for him and for myself. the commission has welcomed very favourably the initiatives taken by president obama since his inauguration. all the elements are now in place for a relaunch of us/european relations, and the commission will make a major effort to revitalise this partnership. the most striking example of the us change of course is its intention to address the human rights issues related to the treatment of suspected terrorists. we welcome, of course, president obama's readiness to close the guantanamo detention camp, to reach out to the islamic world and to confirm the commitment of the united states to the middle east peace process. we also noted with satisfaction other equally important aspects of the orders signed on 22 january, namely the closure of secret cia prisons, the absolute prohibition on the use of torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, and the suspension of trials before military courts. the european union has an active political dialogue with the united states, which obviously gives priority to the promotion of human rights throughout the world. we are also active partners of the united states in the fight against the terrorist threat, but always in accordance with our human rights obligations. the fact that guantanamo detainees have been held for years without trial has made it easy for terrorist groups to seek to radicalize and recruit new members. the european union has already expressed its opposition to guantánamo. the european parliament, your parliament, has repeatedly called for its closure. the fight against terrorism must always be conducted in accordance with international law. respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism is important not only as a matter of principle, but also to combat radicalisation worldwide. we believe that the rights of all prisoners under international law must be respected. except in the case of armed conflict, persons shall not be arbitrarily detained and shall have the right to a fair and regular trial. we have raised these issues in the political dialogue with the united states. the european parliament has played an important role in raising awareness of this issue. i would like to repeat what mr vondra said and add that the case of every detainee at guantánamo will have to be reviewed by the american authorities. a task force led by the attorney general and composed of the secretaries of state for defence and homeland security and senior officials has just begun work. president obama has announced that new diplomatic efforts will be made to find a solution to the guantánamo problem. at the last council of foreign ministers on 26 january, as mrs benita ferrero-waldner said, there was a brief exchange on guantánamo. several member states have expressed their wish to establish a common framework for a concerted approach by the european union, although, mr president-in-office of the council, it is for the member states to decide in the first instance on a case-by-case basis how to respond to possible requests from the united states. we have proposed, in close cooperation with the council secretariat, to undertake further reflection on these questions. we are examining questions concerning the possible reception of former prisoners by third countries. although the released prisoners should in principle return to their home countries, some of them, who may be released after examination, will not be able to return to their home countries for fear of persecution, torture or ill-treatment. we are prepared to look very carefully with the united states at what the european union can do to help them to resettle these people in safety. but these particular cases will raise some delicate and complex issues which need further examination. the principle is always the same. we must do everything possible to ensure that human rights are fully respected. we are in favour of a positive and constructive attitude towards the new american administration. at the same time, we must ensure, by all means, that the european union's approach is consistent with our human rights obligations and our own legislation. this will not be easy or quick. we will be faced with complex issues which will require coordination of action by the member states to achieve a coherent response by the european union. we shall do everything in our power to contribute to the discussion of the practical measures to be taken at community level. at this stage, the us request has not yet been formalised. as mrs benita ferrero-waldner has said and as she has repeatedly said, positive cooperation is necessary. we must work together with the member states to implement it. at the next jha council on 26 february we will call on the member states to take a concerted approach and we may even be able to use the precedent of the solution found in the reception of palestinians in europe following the events at the church of the nativity in 2002. the commission is of course prepared to assist member states which accept to take in former guantanamo detainees, but it is obviously for the member states concerned to define the status of former guantanamo detainees who are third country nationals and who might be transferred to their territory. we will work on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the individual situation, humanitarian considerations and security implications. the decision to host and the establishment of the status are ultimately the responsibility of each member state. however, this approach must be possible within the most coordinated framework possible. mr president, that is what i wanted to say, on behalf of myself and mrs benita ferrero-waldner. i wonder if i should now make the statement on the transport and illegal detention of prisoners across the european area. i shall therefore continue and make a rather short statement, but one which answers the many questions in parliament. the use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners. the commission's line from the beginning has been based on three ideas: firstly, the fight against terrorism must be carried out in full respect of fundamental rights; second, the truth, whatever it is, must be established; thirdly, and this is the most important thing, we must prevent a repetition of the same events in the future. the commission has repeatedly expressed its position that the so-called return and secret detention practices constitute a violation of fundamental rights guaranteed by the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the commission also stressed the need for the member states concerned to carry out thorough, independent and impartial investigations to establish the truth, whatever it may be. this is a positive obligation which stems from the european convention on human rights. it should be noted that investigations have been launched in a number of member states. as regards the allegations of secret detention in poland, the commission has written to the polish authorities on several occasions. as soon as i was given responsibility for the justice, freedom and security files, i myself wrote to the polish authorities on 28 may 2008 to stress the importance of genuine investigations. as a result of this letter, the deputy attorney general informed me in august 2008 that a criminal investigation had finally been opened and that he would inform me of the results. i consider this to be an important step forward. i have also been active in addressing romania on the issue of secret detention. in june 2008, the prime minister of romania sent me the report of the romanian senate committee of inquiry. following additional contacts, the romanian authorities decided to complete this initial investigation in order to examine the information reported in the second report of mr dick marty, who was himself chosen as rapporteur by the council of europe. this approach, which emphasizes the need for genuine investigations at national level, is the only way forward. the union and the commission have neither the powers nor the means to do this work of clarifying the truth for the member states. only the instruments and means of investigation available to the member states can shed light on the matter. the commission - and i am happy to make this commitment to you - hopes that these investigations will be completed, that they will make it possible, if necessary, to determine responsibility and, if necessary, to ensure compensation for the victims. apart from requests to member states to carry out investigations, one of the commission's practical contributions following the european parliament's resolution of 2 february 2007 was to clarify the definition of state aircraft and i myself, when i was commissioner for transport, presented a communication on civil and business aviation which helped to clarify matters. the evaluation of national anti-terrorism legislation was also requested by parliament. the commission sent a questionnaire to the member states on the effectiveness of counter-terrorism measures, on their relationship with fundamental rights, in order to get an overview of the current situation. the commission has received replies from the 27 member states and a document containing these replies will be made public during the first half of this year. now we really need to get all these answers out in the open. i have been a little long, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, but it is true that, although this is an area where the union's powers are limited, the commission has endeavoured to promote the emergence of the truth and respect for fundamental rights. i can only say one thing, and i do say it with a personal commitment, that i will of course continue to ensure that the truth is established, especially so that these unfortunate events do not happen again.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i was expecting two disconnected issues: guantánamo on the one hand and the secret detentions and renditions on the other. as we are all aware, during his first days in office president obama in fact made three decisions. the first one i have already told you about, i.e. guantánamo, but there were two other important ones as well. firstly, he ended the cia secret detention programme. he ordered that in future, all detainees held by the us must be registered with the icrc. with this decision, he addressed an issue which has been of concern to both the council and the european parliament. this is why the council has also warmly welcomed this decision. i am sure that it is equally warmly welcomed by this parliament. president obama also ended the use of ‘enhanced’ interrogation techniques by the cia. the us investigators can no longer rely on the legal opinions concerning torture and other interrogation techniques written since 9/11. this decision is important. the european union is committed to the absolute prohibition of torture and of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. as regards the third decision, president obama has also ordered a review of transfer or rendition policies to ensure they are in line with us obligations under international law. in future, policies must not – i quote – ‘result in the transfer of individuals to other nations to face torture or otherwise for the purpose, or with the effect, of undermining or circumventing the commitments or obligations of the us to ensure the humane treatment of individuals in its custody and control’. we believe that these decisions, taken together with the decision to close guantánamo, which i have already mentioned, will further strengthen cooperation with the us in countering terrorism. i think it can also restore a better climate in transatlantic relations and can respond to feelings which were articulated very strongly in this parliament, as well as among a substantial part of public opinion in europe. i think here we can all agree on one point from the outset: that the context of today’s discussion changed immeasurably. i am also aware that the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners has been a source of deep concern among many members of this parliament. you have been following these issues very closely, not least through the activities of the temporary committee. the position of this parliament was clearly expressed in your resolution of february 2007. i want to underline to you that the council has always reiterated its commitment to combating terrorism effectively, using all legal means available, because terrorism itself is a threat to a system of values based on the rule of law. the council has also stated repeatedly that the existence of secret detention facilities, where detained persons are kept in a legal vacuum, is not in conformity with international humanitarian and human rights law. that remains our view today and we are committed to it, but the change of context with the current developments in the us means that i would also like to focus primarily on the future. let us look forwards rather than backwards. the council very much welcomes the recent decision by the us president on this issue. the transatlantic community has been a community of shared values and must remain one if we are to be able to defend our interests in the global world. there is no doubt that human rights and support for the rule of law in the fight against terrorism belong to this shared heritage.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. should the european union take in prisoners from guantanamo? that is the question we have to ask ourselves today. the answer must depend on the considerations we make. some say the prisoners were tortured. that's one reason to take them in, a commandment of humanity. it is true, without question, that torture is one of the most degrading of all human practices. the fact that these people have been tortured entitles them to our sympathy, regardless of the specific charges against them. but is it the only aspect we have to consider? many of those who were or are imprisoned there, for example, went to afghanistan after september 11 to train in terrorist camps. those who have done this are not tourists who want to admire the beauty of the country, but they are potential terrorists. we have an obligation to protect european citizens from potential terrorists. torture is unfortunately a reality, and we see it all over the world. we have not yet gone so far as to say that those who have been tortured have a right to be admitted to europe. we have not done so until now for good reasons. we have also considered the need for security in the european union. we have to do the same here. we must ensure that europe is not invaded by potential terrorists, and that is why i would like to give priority to the need for security over all other considerations when considering this problem.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. my colleague claudio fava will speak for our group on the questions of the cia flight and this part of the debate. i want to focus on the complex of the closure of the guantanamo camp and begin with a reply to my colleague hartmut nassauer. the need for security of the people of the european union is certainly a criterion which we must apply to our actions. but i'll start with the question: what is the biggest security breaker? the fear of taking in guantanamo detainees because they are considered a security risk after their release, or rather the existence of this camp in violation of international law and human rights, has created the basic premise for the unbridled anger of millions of people around the world that we were admittedly challenged by september 11 in an incomparable way as the so-called western world, or we could not influence it in part had to accept that a president of the united states of america considered the enforcement of fundamental fundamental rights to be the appropriate means of responding to this challenge. i think that has contributed more to the uncertainty in the world than if we now declare ourselves ready when another president wants to return to the greatest and best quality of his country, which is that the united states of america stands as a symbol of the protection of fundamental rights in the world. if we europeans say, we have nothing to do with this, you have to see for yourself how you get through. the message that a community of states like the european union, which considers itself a community of law and is a community of law, wants to evade responsibility with the argument that an injustice is being brought to an end, we cannot present this to our citizens as a security risk. this message is wrong. it is fatal because we are worse than those who go like barack obama, who says: despite all the risks i take myself, despite the resistance that exists in the military, despite the resistance that surely exists in the united states, because there too people argue: leave them in guantánamo, do not bring them into the country, there they are a greater risk despite all this resistance, the symbolic force that comes from the fact that a new president returns to respect for human and fundamental rights, even for those who do not have respect for human and fundamental rights. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. this can only be done by making a credible contribution to the principle that the fundamental rights of every person should prevail in their own context. guantanamo is a place of shame. guantanamo is a place of torture. guantánamo is therefore also a symbol which the western community of states cannot claim for itself, to implement what it always propagates, namely that in the first place - and this is also the first concept in our charter of fundamental rights - that the dignity of the human being is inviolable. it doesn't say anything about reducing that immunity. the superiority we claim over the philosophy of terrorists has something to do with the fact that we say: we also grant the fundamental rights of those who, in turn, want to deprive others of them by their actions. i therefore believe that by closing guantanamo, by supporting barack obama and by taking an active part, if the american government asks us to do so, and by working with them to develop a procedure to deal with them, we can do more to make the world safer than by propagating a false concept of security, which, mr nassauer, can only be implemented if the police and the intelligence services do their job. it's not like if people came out of guantanamo, they could walk around unobserved and free. so, the security aspect, yes, but the fundamental rights aspect in this case needs to be located higher. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not my group, the gue/ngl group, has called from the outset for the closure of the us prison camp at guantánamo. for years, people have been detained and tortured and denied fair trials, in violation of all relevant legal bases and international agreements. they have been denied basic human rights. the very power which is trying to impose human rights, democracy and freedom on the world has violated fundamental rights here and created its own lawless space for its own struggle. this is unacceptable! it was important that the european parliament had repeatedly called for the closure of guantánamo for a long time. but now, after a new government says 'we are changing our policy', we europeans are again beginning to question what we ourselves have demanded. we hesitate and end up starting a worthless cow trade. i'd even call that cynical. where is our demand for the universality and indivisibility of human rights? it's not like we're saying, "wash me, but don't wet me". it is not possible that we can justify and accept these camps of shame in any way. the enforcement of human rights cannot be a value only if we demand them from others and cannot do anything about them ourselves. i call on the member states to be clear on this point, but i also say on behalf of my group that the closure of the guantanamo prison camp can only be the first step. guantanamo bay must be cleared of americans as well!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the guantanamo prison camp has become a symbol of the disregard for human rights and the rule of law. the new us president barack obama has sent a strong but necessary signal by ordering the suspension of military tribunals in guantanamo and the closure of the camp within a year. but it is not only the united states of america that has lost credibility in the fight against terrorism by ignoring human rights. our european governments cannot wash their hands of the blame either, as the european parliament's cia committee found in its report of february 2007. this is a double standard in many european union countries, which rightly demand respect for human rights from the applicant countries and candidate countries, but which have trampled on human rights within the european union itself. the european union also has a responsibility to play an active role in finding a common solution for all prisoners who are no longer suspected of having committed crimes and who cannot return to their home countries. this is also expressly true of the federal republic of germany, which can and should itself make a contribution to making the reception of refugees possible. we must not make the mistake of murat kurnaz, a german-turkish man from bremen, who was wrongfully imprisoned in guantanamo bay for four years. the new start in washington is an opportunity for us to send a message against the erosion of civil and human rights in the fight against terrorism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is no question that guantanamo is the responsibility of the united states. but it is also an act of solidarity when barack obama asks us to help him return to international law, to support him in this. i am thinking here, for example, of the uighurs who cannot return to china. but you also have to look at the people who have been in guantanamo for five or seven years now. whether they want to live in the united states, we can't decide that, but that has to be in the hands of these people. munich, for example, or the uyghurs living there, would be willing to take in these uyghurs, to support them, to also care for them so that they can process their traumatic experiences. but one thing must also be clear: it is not possible for the bavarian minister of the interior, joachim hermann, to say: 'whoever is imprisoned in guantánamo must have already committed a crime'. the presumption of innocence must apply here. this minister should take his hat off as the head of a police department. we are training police officers in other countries to finally incorporate the very right of the presumption of innocence into their work and not to issue a preliminary order to shoot. you should think about that!
mr president, mr vice-president, mr president of the council! in may 2006, i was in guantanamo with my colleagues mann and elles. we have made it very clear that the establishment of guantanamo constitutes a breach of international law and that it is also a violation of human rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that president obama's decision is a good decision and that it will help restore the credibility of the united states of america and the west as a whole. that is why we must make it clear that this question of credibility is of high political importance. at the same time, it must be stated that the prisoners there are not known as human rights defenders of a peaceful nature and that they must be judged as such. i sometimes had a different impression in this debate. we must see that the united states of america has the primary responsibility for this case and that therefore the united states of america must explain why it cannot take some of these prisoners. and the home countries have to justify why they don't want to take them in, or the prisoners have to prove why they can't go to their home countries because they're subject to special persecution there. when all this comes together, there may be consideration of the european union taking in prisoners. but this can only be done by examining in each individual case the degree of danger associated with that person and that this investigation does not take place only at the national level, because with our open borders in the european community we must have european standards for assessing the security risk that these persons may pose. someone spoke today of refugees. they're not refugees! these are prisoners who need to be proven harmless unless we want to take risks that are irresponsible. i think we should also see that those who have a connection with our member states have not already been admitted, like mr kurnaz in germany or in the uk, i think nine of those people. i believe that the european union has already taken in 60 people in total. this too should not be forgotten.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr barrot, i appreciate your decision to go to lampedusa, but do it quickly and unannounced, or you'll be assigned a potemkin village like we were on our visit when they cleared the camp and put puppets in. and do it soon, before mr berlusconi and mr maroni of lampedusa construct the new alcatraz of europe and continue to hold citizens hostage there. of course, we must be in solidarity as the european union. we must set up quotas for refugees to be distributed among the various member states, as well as for those who cross the 'green border', which is not a small number. but what is happening here now - and we have visited many camps - is an insolence, it is completely inhuman. if mr berlusconi says that they could all go for a beer if they wanted to. that shows the great intelligence of this man: none. i want to make that very clear here. it's people like mr. maroni who say you should be evil and enforce the harshness of the law, and then on sundays they slide on their knees up the vatican steps and claim to be great catholics. this duplicity, this double-dealing, is no longer acceptable and we must support the other member states - malta, greece, italy - and not these hypocrites. we don't want to help them.
vice-president of the commission. − unfortunately, i do not have any detailed information about the contact points, but i know in general that this is decided in the member states and depends very much on the structure of the government and governance structures. i know where this contact point will be in my own country, but at this moment i do not have such an overview of where the contact points are in other countries. it is, of course, possible to provide you with the necessary details if you are interested.
vice-president of the commission. − the dangers of the internet and the development of the internet constitute a huge issue. we all know how new the internet is in our world and how it has developed exponentially over the last few years, as such both the positive and dangerous sides are very new to society and governmental structures. of course, governmental structures, including european institutions, must adequately assess all the possible threats, and i am sure that they are doing so. the safer internet programme is one response to already identified threats. another already identified threat is cyber attacks and different attempts to attack and block via the internet. criminals are also using the internet, and law-enforcement agencies are actively working on how to deal with these possible threats. so i think that one of the main priorities for governments – and also european institutions – is to respond adequately; and in this sense ‘adequately’ means that we should not restrict the enormous advantages which the internet offers to all users. however, while all the different aspects of development threats and possibilities – and adequate reactions thereto – are definitely more a question for the specialists in this area, they are also in the interest of all internet users. i can assure you that the commission and its relevant services are intensely monitoring the situation. concerning participation in this programme, the commission’s attitude is that applications can come from a large variety of possible applicants, including small and medium-sized enterprises, and that those enterprises are mostly the providers of these kinds of services. therefore, i think it would also be good for those enterprises. if i understood correctly about the possibility for the younger generations to participate in this programme, i cannot give you a concrete answer at this moment, but the commission is very open to involving as many participants as possible to work with this programme. however, i cannot give a concrete answer today on the issue of young people’s participation.
vice-president of the commission. − this question is very well known to me and has already been dealt with many times. i must say that, first of all, mr richard boomer is not a property developer, as is stated in the question. all information about him is available on the website. he has been my special adviser since 1 april 2006 and his mandate was renewed in 2008 for the period from 1 april 2008 to 31 march 2009. his mandate as special adviser is as follows: advise the vice-president responsible for administration, audit and fraud prevention as regards property policy; improve relations with the competent authorities in brussels and luxembourg; optimise effectiveness of the investments to be made by the commission. i must say that he has really provided us with valuable expertise, knowing what is going on in the real estate field in brussels or belgium mostly, though not so much in luxembourg. his advice has been valuable and i must say that also the lines of command in the matter of property policy at the commission are very clear. the definition of property policy falls within the competence of the personnel and administration dg under the authority of the vice-president in charge of administration. this policy is implemented by the office for infrastructure and logistics brussels (for brussels) and the office for infrastructure and logistics luxembourg (for luxembourg). in his capacity as special adviser, mr boomer, like all special advisers at the commission, advises on the policy and perspectives on a long-term basis in the matters laid down in his mandate. he has no role in the process of decision-making or in the underlying management procedures such as, for example, the acquisition of buildings or the suspension of a long-term lease. on the third question, relating to an unnamed belgian real estate entrepreneur, the commission has no knowledge of the pressures suggested by the honourable member. on the last question – the big one – i am very happy to inform the honourable member that the european commission announced publicly, in a communication on its property policy on 5 september, its will to maintain a strong symbolic presence at the centre of the european area, while developing in parallel up to three additional sites outside this area. this policy makes it possible to ensure the best added value for use of public money and puts downward pressure on the high level of prices within the european area. in accordance with this policy, the commission published in june 2008 a call for information addressed to the market in order to have better knowledge of the existing possibilities for the development of a site external to the european area from 2014. this call was made with full transparency, via publication in the official journal. the commission received nine offers and is currently undertaking a technical examination of them. the commission would reassure honourable members that the choice of the site to be made in 2009 will be based on careful examination of the merits of each offer, pursuant to clear procedures and in the best interests of the european commission and the taxpayers’ money. until this decision is taken, the commission will not express a view on any of the offers which have been examined. on the question of when the results of the architects’ competition for rue de la loi will be announced, the commission can only state that this question does not fall within the competence of the european commission but has to be submitted to the brussels capital region, which launched this town planning competition. according to information available to the european commission, the final result is expected in spring 2009. i am sorry about the long answer but the details were also substantial.
i'm not going to tell you. it is always a great pleasure to listen to you and to exchange with you. i've prepared a chart of your special counsel's professional life. i'd like to ask you how you're going to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest. after all, one of the people who's gonna be a part of your new offerings is on it. this is someone who's always had a business relationship with your special counsel. so how do you ensure that there are no conflicts of interest?
vice-president of the commission. − as i said, he must know a lot of people. i am absolutely sure that there is no conflict of interest. he has not expressed any kind of suggestion concerning our future policy decisions. i am absolutely sure you will hear when this decision is taken. nine sites have been suggested, but i do not know where these sites are. i have read in newspapers about some suggestions made. you can check it afterwards and then you will have a full picture why one or another decision was taken. so far nothing is clear, so i am very interested to see all these proposals. my adviser has scrutinised this matter from all angles, and i am absolutely sure that he has no conflict of interest and especially, of course, that he has no role in this kind of decision-making.
i'd like to ask you again. we understand that there's a real estate search going on outside the european quarter. i also think that it is european taxpayers' money that is ultimately being used and that the european parliament should be involved in a transparent procedure. my question is this: as you yourself have said, commissioner, there are already nine candidates for this call for tenders, which are now being evaluated. however, concrete changes in the use of the site have already been initiated at one location, namely the boiler site. how does the information you just gave us match up with what's obviously already in the works there? we would like to have more specific information, particularly on when we will be informed of the situation as a whole and of the procedure.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i listened carefully to both sides. it is very difficult for the commission, in this context, to take the place of the latvian state in dealing with this problem. i can simply encourage an internal dialogue here too, which i think is desirable. that's all i can, unfortunately, confirm.
the next item is the report by karl-heinz florenz on behalf of the standing committee on climate change on 2050: the future starts today recommendations for a future integrated eu climate policy (2008/2105 (ini)) (a6-0495/2008).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position. in particular, good morning to the colleagues who have been working on this climate report for months! i am very grateful to you for putting together this report with me in a very fair and cooperative way. the approach of a horizontal committee was new. we have not discussed this with experts in a group, but we have discussed it with people in the transport sector, we have discussed it with people in the economic sector and of course also with people in the energy sector. it was clear that the first few hours and days of debate were a bit rougher because this was a new topic. i would like to thank once again our chairman and my good friend, guido sacconi, who has always managed this very well and fairly. the result of today is that we have realised that this horizontal cooperation is a very great opportunity and that we should make sure that people talk to each other more than groups against each other in the next parliament. that has been the greatest advantage of this committee. we had invited very high-level experts - nobel peace prize laureate pachauri, the scientific community, the research community, the political community, of course - and in the end we have a result in our hands today that shows us that the report has been very positive. we know very well that prohibitions, sanctions and waivers do relatively little. we must encourage change of consciousness, innovation and motivation. our aim must be that engineers in europe get up every morning with great joy and try to build more efficient machines in this world, to use the raw materials of our children better and much more efficiently. the report is also honest. we wrote that there is no such thing as a miracle weapon. there is no switch that can be turned, not in brussels or bali or in december in poland, but a multitude of measures. that is the opportunity: the opportunity to make it clear to the citizen that he himself contributes one third of this climate change, for example, by heating his house. we as citizens also have a third of the shares because of mobility and everything that goes with it, and industry also has a third. so we're all being addressed. that's the beauty of it. we do not need to look for a bad guy, but we are all invited to discuss in an innovative direction. i'm very pleased. it is also clear that this report is balanced - i would like to say this explicitly again - because it does not represent a party programme. it does not condemn areas, but we point out that there are areas where there are more options, but there are also areas where we have fewer options. that is why the report concludes by saying that it is a pioneering report and that it shows the way forward - especially for europe, because we have a huge environmental technology in europe, the volume of which is comparable to that of the european automobile industry. this will increase, and we need to work on it through innovation. i was just saying that we should involve citizens so that they can do something about their own homes. local politicians, chambers of commerce and industry and craft associations can do a lot of motivating and informative work. let me finish. the many benefits we have highlighted in this report should make us aware that innovation is opportunity, not depression, and if we understand this, then the task has been worthwhile.
i would like to thank mr florenz very much for the work he has done, for his report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to thank mr florenz, in particular, for his patience in the negotiations. the length of the report makes it clear that a great many subjects have been raised. but at the same time i would like to ask how far the unity which this report is signalling at the beginning of this year is tenable. i remember very well the international climate conference in poznan and the very weak role played by the europeans in poznan, because they were busy downsizing their ambitious promises and announcements from the bali international negotiations and how they were busy putting climate policy on the back burner in the face of the looming financial and economic crisis. i think next year the decision will be made whether we are really ready, because of the knowledge about climate change, to correct the way we do business in the developed world, as we have promised to do now and again. i think the decision about whether we're going to move towards sustainability or not is not yet made. ban ki-moon and achim steiner made a very strong appeal in poznan to link all the measures taken by the states with their economic programmes, with their bank rescue packages, with the programming against poverty in the developing countries and against the terrible consequences of climate change in the developing countries, but also with measures for a really ambitious climate protection and a new energy policy. i note that in every piece of legislation at european level dealing with this, the path is being redrawn. it is by no means certain that europe is on the way to the modern society of energy efficiency and renewable energy. the question remains: do we continue with the old coal and nuclear mix or do we go ambitiously in new directions? i hope we can continue to discuss this in the same constructive way as we did in the climate committee, but i am not sure.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank mr karl-heinz florenz very much for his report, which unfortunately did not make much of a dent, which is probably due to the fact that it was discussed very much in the shadow of the climate change package. we must face the consequences of climate change, no question, but i cannot agree with the report on all points in the choice of means. firstly, it is right that the eu is taking the first steps on climate action, but it is not constructive to go it alone without involving partners. europe's pioneering role alone will not convince the rest of the world. a viable approach must involve the industrialised countries and at least china, india and brazil. otherwise, europe's economy will be left unilaterally burdened with no measurable impact on global co2 emissions. secondly, renewable energy cannot, as far as we know, completely replace fossil fuels. it may be politically motivated to demand this, but it is not realistic. the political will, however great, does not override the laws of physics. thirdly, biofuels are being promoted as an environmentally friendly alternative. so far, their negative side effects on food prices, which rise, or on rainforests, which are cut down, have not been controlled. fourthly, resource-efficient mobility is a sensible goal in the long term. the introduction of incentives can help to achieve this. we should only think about when government intervention is going too far and from what point on we assume knowledge that we do not have today. no one today knows which technologies will best meet the need for individual mobility in 50 years' time. and politicians don't know any better than engineers. what started with good intentions has unfortunately become a record of wishful thinking, moral appeals and pointing fingers. the german liberals are not in a position to give their approval to this.
i have to say, madam president, the florence report does contain many good suggestions. one good thing about the climate debate is that it acts as a catalyst for the transition to the renewable energy age. the report also makes a very good point of this, with many opportunities for new technologies and economic development. i think it's a shame that we've left out a lot of science. studies and scientists who approach the issue of climate change with less bleak scenarios or perhaps even positive ones were simply not heard in the committee. the same requests were rejected by a majority, and that was that. science is only what fits the political concept. it's going to go wrong because science is not manipulable. unfortunately, this is how the report ends up. on this basis, demanding a co2 reduction of 80% or more is fundamentally calling into question economic and social achievements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome since the beginning of the nineteenth century. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and has recently adopted a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. and anyone who calls for protective suits against climate change is deliberately trying to create fear. i hope that these radical and unhelpful ideologies will not find a place in the report. i can also support the report because i am interested in environmental protection - it is best if it is linked to social achievements and economic competitiveness.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the climate committee did a good job. today we have the final report to vote on, how we as the european parliament envisage future climate policy, what action needs to be taken in terms of adaptation to climate change. i hope that when the next legislative procedures are due, we here in parliament will also have such a great deal of agreement that what we have documented in this report will be taken up. the report has been able to take a horizontal view of the committee's work. i must say that we should preserve the way this committee works in the next parliamentary term, as guido sacconi has just said. the fight against climate change cannot be waged by europe alone, but other continents and other countries must be brought on board. the committee has also done a very good job here, because we have become visible as a parliament for the first time in terms of climate diplomacy, and i would like to emphasise this again at this point. if we are talking about adjustment measures, we are also talking about finance. i would like to ask the other two institutions, the commission and the council, to give this matter top priority in the next financial perspective. we can adopt the most beautiful reports here, but if there is no money for action, then this report would be useless. we should also examine the impact of the financial measures we are already taking and summarise this in an audit.
i have to say, madam president, taking the consequences of climate change seriously means listening to all the different positions, including the science. we had a lot of experts on the committee, that's right. but unfortunately, they were occupied unilaterally. we didn't get a chance to get to know all the sides. i think this is a mistake. we have had a first draft report with mr florenz's report, which was much better than the one before us today. many of the proposals that are before us today are good, but many of them i think are wrong. it is not worthwhile to constantly resort to new regulations and new measures, but the solution can only be: yes to innovation, yes to research. individual responsibility is the solution, not more and more government regulations. there are a number of nonsensical rules, such as the obligation to provide accounts, the prevention and regulation of meat consumption, the defamation of agriculture and many others. i think that is the wrong way to go about it and that is why i have problems with this report as it stands.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i have realised that the distinguished members of the parliament are using their native languages. i have no doubt that the interpreters speak one thousand per cent better english than me, so, if you will allow me, i will speak czech and try to react to this debate in the european parliament. mohu-li si to dovolit, tak bych velmi rád ocenil hloubku diskuze v evropském parlamentu, její věcnost a také odpovědnost poslankyň a poslanců evropského parlament. dovolil bych si reagovat asi v sedmi bodech na tuto diskuzi. nejprve bych rád podtrhl roli mezivládního panelu pro klimatickou změnu, jelikož v některých příspěvcích byly závěry mezivládního panelu zpochybňovány. já si myslím, že určitá nevýhoda je v tom, že čtvrtletní zprávy, které mezivládní panel vydal jak k fyzikální podstatě klimatické změny nebo k adaptacím, k mitigacím, mají zhruba 1200 až 1400 stránek a je to skutečně precizní vědecká práce s odkazy na impaktovanou vědeckou literaturu poté je však z těchto zpráv je udělán souhrn a nakonec je to tzv. summary for policy makers, souhrn pro politiky, ten už má kolem dvaceti stránek, tam už ty odkazy nejsou a myslím si, že řada nedorozumění plyne právě z toho, že my, politici – omlouvám se, někteří z nás možná ano – nemáme čas číst těch 1200 či 1500 stránek. je důležité zdůraznit, že mezivládní panel pro klimatickou změnu byl nejen oceněn nobelovou cenou, ale na konferenci o klimatu na bali se192 států, které se konference účastnily, shodlo na tom, že se jedná o nejkomplexnější, nejkvalitnější vědecký základ, nejkonzistentnější informace, které máme k dispozici při rozhodování o tom, zda a jak reagovat na klimatickou změnu. 192 reprezentantů států se vyjádřilo tímto způsobem a je to i moje reakce na některá vyjádření zmiňující alarmismus argumentace, na kterou jsem zvyklý z domova. podle mého názoru je rok 2009 rokem, kdy máme velmi dobrou startovní pozici. jednak zase opět hovoříme jako evropská unie jedním hlasem. na bali jsem si ověřili, že tohle je velmi cenné. dokázali jsme hodně posunout jednání společně s partnery s g77 a s dalšími ekonomikami a jsme vlastně jedinou velikou světovou ekonomikou, která je nasměrována k tomu, aby přijala cíl snížení emisí skleníkových plynů o 30 % do roku 2020. ta druhá naděje začátku tohoto roku je změna ve spojených státech, kterou zde řada z vás zmínila. já se na ten problém dívám tak, že někde v kodani existuje místnost, k níž dveře mají zhruba 200 zámků. a když se nám podaří otevřít všechny tyto zámky, tak uzavřeme novou globální dohodu o ochraně klimatu od roku 2013. podle mého názoru ten první zámek, ten už jsme otevřeli. to je zámek se jménem evropská unie. tím druhým zámkem v pořadí jsou spojené státy, a proto klademe takový důraz na co nejrychlejší kontakt s novou americkou administrativou, proto plánujeme tu návštěvu společně v trojce s budoucím švédským předsednictvím a společně s komisařem pro životní prostředí stavrosem dimasem a to je také moje odpověď na poznámku jerzyho buzka, totiž to že my v žádném případě nehodláme ta mezinárodní jednání vést sami. vůbec ne, hodláme koordinovat ta jednání. dánsko samozřejmě má enormní zájem na tom, aby kodaňská konference byla úspěšná. jarní neformální evropskou radu také zaměříme v té částí, která bude uzavřena pro ministry, na předání si zkušeností z dosavadních bilaterálních jednání o mezinárodní dohodě o klimatu, a také se pokusíme definovat společně strategii jak dále, jakým způsobem koordinovat tato mezinárodní jednání samozřejmě včetně zapojení diplomatů. a vedle toho budeme jednat o adaptacích, to bude hlavní téma jarní neformální rady v praze. ten další bod mé reakce souvisí s tím, že jsme se dostali do zajímavého momentu, protože úsilí evropské unie o ambiciózní aktivní politiku ochrany klimatu se najednou střetlo s dopady finanční a hospodářské krize. a já tady považuji za velmi pozitivní to, že hlasy, které vyzývají k odkladu našich dlouhodobých cílů, které by nás měly odvést od té cesty k ochraně klimatu, jsou velmi sporadické, a naopak v drtivé většině – a i tady v evropském parlamentu a děkuji za to – zní hlasy, které říkají, pojďme této koincidence využít jako příležitosti, protože je to strategie, která obsahuje šestkrát „win“, je to „win, win,win, win, win,win“ strategie, protože jestliže v reakci na hospodářskou a finanční krizi jednotlivé ekonomiky, a i ti nejkonzervativnější ekonomové jsou připraveni povolit kohouty, investovat do ekonomiky, tak je to příležitost investovat do toho, abychom transformovali naši dnešní ekonomiku v nízkouhlíkovou ekonomiku a podpořili moderní environmentální technologie. proč šestkrát „win“? protože ušetříme finanční prostředky za energie úspornými opatřeními. protože snížíme naši závislost na dovozech energií, protože snížíme spotřebu neobnovitelných přírodních zdrojů, protože vytvoříme nová pracovní místa – a podívejme se na to, že různé plány v evropě, které reagují na finanční a hospodářskou krizi, ve významné části přinášejí nová pracovní místa právě v té oblasti green jobs a v oblasti nových environmentálních technologií obnovitelných zdrojů energií a energetických úspor – a zároveň snížíme emise skleníkových plynů. proto vnímá české předsednictví tuto situaci jako mimořádnou příležitost k tomu, abychom vlastně změnili vzorce chování a nastavili naši ekonomiku směrem k vyšší udržitelnosti. tou největší příležitostí jak vlastně změnit ekonomiku je globální trh s uhlíkem. když porovnám environmentální politiku v 70. letech, kdy jsme se opírali o zákazy a příkazy a především jsme používali tzv. end of pipe politiku, tak jsme v roce 2009 v situaci, kdy využíváme daleko více ekonomické nástroje ve prospěch životního prostředí a myslím si, že to, že součástí klimaticko-energetického balíčku je nový systém emisního obchodování, který se opírá o aukce, je vynikající předpoklad pro to, abychom vytvořili globální trh s uhlíkem. podívejme se na ambice. v roce 2013 začnou fungovat postupné aukce v elektroenergetice a již v roce 2015 si přejeme mít globální trh s uhlíkem na úrovni oecd, a proto tak velmi sledujeme vývoj ve spojených státech a to, jak bude vypadat proces přijímání toho „cap and trade“ systému v kongresu spojených států. další moment, který bych chtěl zmínit, je role obnovitelných zdrojů energie a také energetických úspor. my totiž při jednání s rozvojovými zeměmi musíme něco nabídnout, musíme nabídnout těm zemím hospodářský rozvoj, ale zároveň jim musíme nabídnout rozvoj takový, aby zajistil plnění těch cílů, o kterých hovoří mezivládní panel pro klimatickou změnu a které jsme jako politici přijali. a tady ta role obnovitelných zdrojů bude naprosto klíčová, protože máme v podstatě dvě možné cesty. buď to bude tak, že ty miliardy lidí, kteří nemají přístup k elektřině, kteří touží po tom mít elektřinu, protože ten magnet konzumu, ta atraktivita konzumu je nepřekonatelná a nelze toto nikomu vyčítat, budou muset jít za elektřinou do měst a elektřina bude distribuována tím dnešním konvenčním způsobem – velké centrální zdroje, distribuční přenosová soustava, zátěž životního prostředí – anebo elektřina přijde za nimi do míst, kde jsou oni po generace zvyklí a vedou tam tradiční způsob života v harmonii s přírodou, ale toto může být pouze forma decentralizované obnovitelné elektřiny. takže my, když rozvíjíme technologie obnovitelných zdrojů v evropě, tak to neděláme jenom kvůli vyspělým zemím, ale děláme to také proto, aby tím, že se rozšíří počet instalací ve světě, se snížily investiční a provozní náklady a aby tyto technologie byly dostupné pro občany v rozvojových zemích, čili tohle je ohromný politický úkol, který je před námi ve vztahu k rozvojovým zemím. rád bych nakonec ubezpečil, že české předsednictví má skutečně veliké ambice posunout vyjednávání v oblasti klimatické změny dopředu. velmi intenzivně budeme vést mezinárodní vyjednávání. také bych vás rád ubezpečil o konzistentnosti českého předsednictví a jestliže jsem zde zaznamenal zmínku a padlo zde slovo „prezident české republiky“, tak jakkoli premiér české republiky se zde v debatě v evropském parlamentu českého prezidenta klause zastal, tak v oblasti ochrany klimatu a politiky ochrany klimatu mně nezbývá, než-li se zde určitým způsobem distancovat od vyjádření a od pozic českého prezidenta, a rád bych vás ubezpečil, že české předsednictví a jeho pozice formuluje česká vláda a že veškerá vyjádření, která můžete po dobu českého předsednictví ještě očekávat – protože pan prezident se také chystá navštívit spojené státy – berte prosím s prizmatem toho, že klimatická politika je formulována českou vládou a my jsme zde naprosto konzistentní a spolupracujeme s evropskou komisí a s nadcházejícím švédským předsednictvím v trojce. čili tolik mé vyjádření. ještě jednou velmi děkuji za velmi plodnou, věcnou a především odpovědnou diskuzi tohoto ctihodného shromáždění.
member of the commission. − madam president, we are also looking forward to continuing to work closely with the czech presidency, the czech government and specifically with minister martin bursík. i am sure that during the first semester of 2009 we will advance the negotiations considerably. i would like to thank all the speakers in today’s discussion for their positive contributions. as the title of your report indicates, what happens to the world’s climate in 2015 and beyond will depend on what action the international community decides now. building on the solid scientific advice at our disposal, and insisting that negotiations must be guided by science, remains vital. we need to communicate the scientific findings to a broader public, and enhance consumer awareness of greenhouse gas impacts on lifestyles and consumption patterns. such increased awareness, however, needs to be accompanied by strong economic incentives for business to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the goods and services they provide. a transition to a low-carbon economy is needed at a global scale, and can only be achieved through comprehensive and integrated action to address emissions in all sectors. only by being ambitious now can we keep the door open to stabilising concentrations of greenhouse gases at lower levels, should the ipcc in future indicate that this is necessary. together with the commission, i am convinced that you also have an important role in echoing these important messages. 2009 will be a crucial year for the global climate change negotiations. for the commission, 2009 will be a year of implementation: we are working on an implementation road map. there are about 15 measures that we need to take through comitology; there is a list of deadlines in the revised ets that we are going to meet: for example, the list of sectors for carbon leakage should be ready by december 2009. there will be a big stakeholders’ meeting on 30 march 2009. the bulk of the work will be done during the summer and, by the end of 2009, we shall have this list dealt with. the harmonised rules on auctioning should be ready by june 2010. there will be a big stakeholders’ meeting in february, and all these deadlines and work programmes are available to you. but 2009, as i said, is going to be a crucial year for the global climate change negotiations. the world is expected to agree on further international action to tackle climate change at the copenhagen climate change conference in december. however, a deal in copenhagen is by no means a given: much work remains to be done. the climate change and energy package gave us a head start in this transition and provided an excellent basis to prove that ambitious climate policy is not only possible but also broadly beneficial to our economies and societies. the copenhagen communication is the basis for further elaborating the european union’s positions on those key elements, enabling us to maintain our leadership and help lead the negotiations to a success in copenhagen. it is clear that the climate change challenge cannot be solved without significantly stepping up the financing of, and investment in, clean technology, as well as measures to adapt to the inevitable climate change impacts. required amounts for developing countries are estimated to go up to eur 120-150 billion annually in 2020. until 2020, this financing can, for a large part, come from the private-sector households in developing countries. for instance, the major part of reductions in the energy sector will come from efficiency improvements that will pay for themselves. these may partly be supported by international loan arrangements in order to mobilise international private finance. another significant part of additional financing and investment will be mobilised through the carbon market, both from the proceeds of the future auctioning of carbon allowances and via carbon credits under the cdm. the european union in its climate and energy package has created significant demand for cdm credits until 2020. this is likely to spur the deployment of clean technologies in developing countries. however, the poorer the developing countries are, the more they will require further public financial assistance from developed countries. without this assistance they will not be able to sufficiently reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. without this assistance the poorest and most vulnerable will suffer the consequences of climate change. without this assistance there will be no deal in copenhagen. the question is: how can we make sure that these additional public financial flows will be predictable, be spent transparently and effectively, and that the contributions to those flows will be shared internationally? in addition to our contributions to the united nations negotiations, we see that, following the success of the european union’s emissions trading system, carbon markets are being established in many parts of the world. australia has announced the core elements of its system. in autumn 2008, shortly after his election, us president obama reaffirmed his goal to create a us-wide carbon market. together, these trading systems could form the nucleus of an evolving future global carbon market. as i have already stressed, the european union’s challenge now is to facilitate the development of such linked carbon markets, in particular among oecd countries by 2015. in the copenhagen communication, the commission has addressed these questions by putting forward concrete proposals – proposals that are not only ambitious but also realistic, and will make a significant contribution to the success in copenhagen that our planet so desperately needs. let me conclude by taking this opportunity to thank the temporary committee on climate change, mr florenz and parliament for their strong support for our proposals and for the seriousness and speed with which they have handled the package. (applause)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, mr president of the council! i am particularly pleased that this subject has received such a great deal of attention in the final round of this temporary committee. i would like to thank you very much for that. i would also like to thank all the speakers and all those who have contributed. we have developed a roadmap to copenhagen, and this roadmap has, of course, traffic signs, including stop signs, including free-ride signs, but also signs that you know that there are difficult routes. we discussed this here. i was glad to see that there were some critical remarks that can be taken over in part. the proposal of my colleague, mr jens holm, to the european citizens to abolish meat-eating is sorry nonsense. but everyone has their own opinion. in the end, we'll have a good success, and everyone has contributed to it. i would like to thank you again.
i am not going to go into detail. it is with great joy and emotion that i welcome mahmoud abbas, president of the palestinian authority, to our assembly today. mr president, i would like to welcome you to the european parliament. (applause from the centre) we have also invited the president of israel, shimon peres. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the council's decision on the matter is implemented. we hope that the visit of president peres will be followed up soon. mr president, this is not your first visit to the european parliament. as i welcome you here in strasbourg today, at a very difficult time for the middle east and in particular for your people, the palestinian people, i am reminded of our last meeting in the middle east, which took place almost two years ago in gaza at the end of may 2007. they met me at the official headquarters of the palestinian authority. i'll never forget our meeting, the situation was very, very tense. you were conducting delicate mediation talks at the time with the aim of saving the government of national unity which you had formed with energy and foresight. sadly, ten days later, an infamous coup d'état ended those efforts. you're coming straight from cairo today, after a stopover in paris with the french president. in recent days, promising talks have taken place in cairo on the formation of a palestinian government of national consensus. in the face of the tragedy in the gaza strip, the european parliament has not been indifferent to the suffering of the palestinian people. the european parliament has not been silent. we have called for an immediate ceasefire. we condemned the disproportionate response that has hit not only the armed forces of hamas but also the civilian population and international humanitarian organizations. we have also strongly condemned the provocations and the firing of rockets by hamas, which unfortunately - and we condemn this - continues to fire at israel despite the ceasefire. this has to stop! (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, i would like to pay tribute to the staff of the united nations relief and works agency (unrwa) for the exemplary courage and self-sacrifice with which they have carried out and continue to carry out their mission. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my sincere thanks to these men and women of the united nations. (applause from the centre) we call for the speedy resumption of peace negotiations, because we are convinced that there can be no military solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. we have a duty and a responsibility as political actors to do everything we can to ensure that the peoples of the middle east can live together in peace. the conditions for peace between israel and palestine are the reconciliation of the palestinians. parliament fully supports the ongoing mediation talks, led in particular by egypt, which are paving the way for the formation of a palestinian government of national consensus. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the palestinian people are not left behind. (applause from the centre) we demand and expect that such a government respects the basic principles of the peace process, abstains from violence and is committed to peace negotiations with israel. the european union is ready to cooperate with such a government. the commitment of the new american president, barack obama, and the appointment of george mitchell as special envoy to the middle east are hopeful signs. the european union's determination - and i am pleased to have the commissioner responsible, mrs benita ferrero-waldner, with her colleague here - to put its full political and economic weight on the line, together with the political will of many arab partner countries, shows that it should be possible to revive and successfully conclude the peace process on the basis of the un resolutions and the arab peace initiative. president abbas, we are grateful to you for being here today, and i say on behalf of the european parliament, and especially on my own behalf, that we have great respect and appreciation for what you are doing in the most difficult of circumstances. we trust you because you are a man of balance, of reconciliation and therefore of peace. we wish you success! i would ask you to address your message to the european parliament. i would like to thank mr president-in-office for his reply. (applause from the centre)
president of the palestinian authority (transcription of the english interpretation from the original arabic). − in the name of god, most gracious, most merciful. your excellency, mr pöttering, president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, members of the european parliament, first and foremost i should like to extend my thanks to his excellency mr pöttering, president of the european parliament, and to you for giving me this opportunity to speak before this august assembly. i have come to you from palestine, whose people are suffering from one of the longest military occupations in modern history. palestine has been deeply wounded by the most violent, dire and horrific military aggression, an aggression that has targeted the lives of children, women and the elderly, as well as their houses, livelihoods, farms, plants and schools. it has targeted drinking water, sewage systems and electricity, as well as hospitals, facilities, roads and bridges. yes, the israeli war has targeted first and foremost the livelihoods of my people, its infrastructure and its future, as well as the future of its palestinian state for which we have long worked together and for the establishment of which we are still working. you have witnessed, along with the rest of the world, the burnt and scattered remains of children. you have heard the calls of men, the appeals of children and women who lost most of their family members. yes, you have seen the mother who was murdered while holding her babies in her arms. you have seen the father who lost the lives of his five children because of rocket attacks, and the girl balousha who slept next to her sisters and woke to the sound of explosions that killed them all, and the hundreds of children whose houses collapsed and fell on their heads. you have also seen the al-fahura school, which was considered to be safe by the people of jabalia, who took refuge in it, and how bombshells claimed the lives of those innocent refugees, with the result that over 40 people perished. these people had families, they had names, they had stories, ambitions and hopes. in addition, over 100 people were wounded. along with those innocent victims fell the values of human conscience, the principles of the united nations and its duties to protect international peace and security. you may also recall that the headquarters of the united nations, its schools, clinics, food and medical warehouses were not spared this insane war against our peaceful and resilient people in gaza. i have come to you, ladies and gentlemen, from palestine bearing a question by a boy named luay who lost his eyesight because of bombs. he asked me who would give back to his eyes the light of hope, the light of life and to his people the light of freedom and peace. yes, ladies and gentlemen, those were terrible scenes and pictures. this was the aftermath of this war which led to the deaths of over 1 400 martyrs, with over 5 000 injured, the majority of whom were innocent civilians, and a high percentage of whom were children, women and the elderly. about 500 of the wounded are still in a critical condition and are dying by the day, in addition to a total destruction of over 4 000 homes, buildings, and about 20 000 other homes. this means that about 90 000 people became homeless and were displaced. in addition to wide-ranging destruction of electricity systems, water systems, sewage systems, in addition to roads and vital facilities, public and private buildings, this israeli war has claimed the fruit of the blood and sweat of our palestinian people, hundreds of thousands of palestinian people who worked all their lives and lost the fruit of this work. it has also destroyed what the palestinian national authority has established over 15 years. much of this infrastructure and many of these facilities were thanks to the contributions of your countries and other friendly countries. this is the scene of the aftermath of this war. this is in parallel to another type of aggression against our lands, our farmers and our national economy that happens on a daily basis in the west bank. the israeli settlement has not stopped at all. the policies of settlement led to the continuation in building the wall of separation, as well as to an increase in roadblocks, checkpoints and barriers besieging the cities, villages and little towns and refugee camps in the west bank, including jerusalem. on the contrary, bids for settlement units have increased 17-fold in the last year in comparison with the year that preceded anapolis. the checkpoints have increased from 580 to 660. military incursions have not stopped, nor have the daily arrests and sometimes assassinations of citizens; the bullying by settlers and their armed incursions and burning of homes which happened in hebron, nablus and other areas; and the terrorist attacks conducted by settlers against farmers in the olive season, which is considered by our people the symbol of peace and life, and not just the livelihood for tens of thousands of palestinian families. this tragic scene of israeli incursions and aggressions in the west bank, including eastern jerusalem, confirms to us and to the world that what is going on is an aggression against the entire palestinian people, its future and its legitimate national rights. it is an aggression and a war against the future of peace and dedicated international efforts that have been deployed for its establishment. this unjust embargo on our people in gaza and the war against it was but an episode in a continuous series of measures aiming at separating gaza from the rest of the occupied palestinian lands, and also at marginalising gaza and marginalising all of our people, and preventing our people from attaining their ultimate goal: an end to occupation, gaining freedom and the right to self-determination and the establishment of an independent palestinian state on the lands that were occupied in 1967, with eastern jerusalem as its capital. this is confirmed by the escalating settlement policies, despite all the efforts and agreements, including the george mitchell report in 2001, the last of which was the anapolis agreement, which promised the palestinian people a state at the end of 2008. however, the culmination of this anapolis agreement was a destructive war in gaza and a settlement war in the west bank, including jerusalem. the world declared in anapolis the failure of unilateral and military solutions. we also declared that israel should be committed to putting an end to settlement activities in order to pave the way towards a political process that will put an end to occupation and will be the fulfilment of the right of a two-state solution – a palestinian state and an israeli state. however, reality proves to us that israel is still governed by a military and settlement mentality, even though its leaders speak about the two-state solution. we must not deal with israel as if it were a state above accountability, above international law. we must put an end to such practices and we must hold the leaders of israel accountable for their violations of international and humanitarian law. (applause)at the same time, we should like to stress that the success of relief and aid operations, as well as resettling families whose homes were destroyed, necessitates the lifting of embargoes, opening checkpoints and crossings, as well as holding israel accountable to its commitment in the agreement on movement and crossing of 2005, which would lead to the flow of aid, equipment and materials necessary for reconstruction and the normal movement of goods and individuals. this applies to all crossings in gaza – not just the rafah crossing – and also applies to the freedom of movement in the west bank and the security corridors between the west bank and gaza to stress the unity of the palestinian land and its economy. here i should like to commend the efforts of unrwa for its continuous work, in spite of all obstructions and obstacles, to help our people. i call upon your organisation and other organisations to support its efforts in all fields. national reconciliation and the establishment of a national reconciliation government constitute one of our priorities. we have opened the door for this reconciliation that will put an end to divisions and upheaval, and also to calls for separation between gaza and the west bank. we warned against falling into this trap that israel wants us to fall into. therefore, at the beginning of june we called for an unconditional dialogue. we accepted the egyptian working paper. our doors are still open; we will not allow the division of our people and of its geographical unity; we shall continue our dedicated efforts to deal with any attempt at separation. we know the intentions and the plans of the regional forces and tendencies which support separation and encourage it. these forces obstruct the egyptian solution that will put an end to internal disputes and divisions. this solution is seconded at an arab level by the arab league and by security council resolution 1860, in the drafting of which i personally participated, together with arab and european ministers. i should like to stress that we shall continue deploying our efforts towards reaching our most noble aim, which is to find a solution for the arab-palestinian cause, because the status quo leaves the future unknown and leaves our people victims of the policies of war, aggression and extremism. once we achieve a government of national reconciliation, based on a programme that is supported by arab and international parties, that will allow us to oversee crossings, as well as reconstruction efforts, to the benefit of our people and of preparations for presidential and legislative elections. i hope that will receive your support, and i also hope you will help us in organising such elections and overseeing them, as was the case in 1996 and 2006. we also hope to be able to count on your support in order to release the president of the palestinian legislative council and all mps who were arrested and are still prisoners of israel. (applause) the essence of the conflict in our region is the israeli occupation. it is a conflict between the hopes and aspirations of our people to rid themselves of this occupation and the attempt by israel to destroy these aspirations, as well as obstructing international efforts that aim towards establishing a palestinian state by peaceful means. our people look to you and to all peace- and justice-loving nations and call upon you: the time has come for the international community to assume its legal, political and moral responsibilities in order to provide adequate international protection for it and enable it to get rid of this occupation and to live in peace and freedom. here i should like to stress again our request and your request to send international forces in order to protect our people. we have heard about international and arab efforts to reconstruct gaza. it is true that these efforts should be deployed as soon as possible in order for our people to regain hope and trust, but we wonder how long israel will be given a free hand to destroy the assets and infrastructure of arab people. therefore the international community must prevent the repetition of those past events, and should also call on israel to stop its destructive policies. i should like to repeat my thanks to the european commission for its help in reconstructing the establishments and the institutions of the palestinian authority. i should like to stress that serious and comprehensive negotiations cannot be continued without a complete halt to settlement – including what is known as natural extension – and to all settlement blocks and all types of embargo. i should like to confirm to you that the achievements of the palestinian government with regard to strengthening peace, public order and stability cannot be ignored by any party. israel should be committed to its deadlines and also should stop undermining the efforts of the palestinian government by means of incursions and arrests. it should also respect the legal and security status of the palestinian authority, in addition to enabling the government to implement its vital economic projects, without using pretexts such as the g areas and other examples. we can no longer negotiate about the end of occupation. what we need is a complete end to occupation – i.e. of the land that has been occupied since 5 june 1967, as was stated by the road map. we cannot go back to negotiating over partial and ancillary issues, while a solution to the main cause – the end of occupation – remains absent and there is an escalation in settlement seeking to strengthen and deepen this occupation, as well as the arrest of 11 00 palestinian prisoners. this, and only this, will enable the peace process to regain its credibility with regard to our people and the people of the area as a whole. what we need, ladies and gentlemen, is the reconstruction of gaza, but also the reconstruction of the peace process. this is our collective responsibility. europe, which upheld in the past – and is still upholding – the principles of security and justice in our region and in the world, must stress today, more than at any time, its role in a comprehensive and clear partnership with president obama’s administration, the quartet and the international community. the election of president obama and his declared stances, in addition to his initiative in appointing mr george mitchell as his special envoy, are encouraging initiatives that will smooth the path of negotiations and the entire political process. i should like to say, in all honesty, that our arab decision is to implement the arab peace initiative – the arab peace initiative which is part of the road map, and has become an islamic peace initiative including 57 muslim countries. this initiative should be fully complemented. as i said before, this initiative is part of the road map that was adopted in the security council, according to resolution 1515. we cannot pick and choose and negotiate about its foundations that are based on international law. this is the last opportunity we have for true and just peace in our region. all parties, especially israel, and the quartet, should be loud and honest about this. we must point out that the arab peace initiative has become an islamic initiative as well. it is an initiative that calls for land for peace. as soon as israel withdraws from all occupied territories, 57 arab and muslim countries will be willing to normalise their relationships with israel. this is an historic opportunity that must not be wasted. ladies and gentlemen, the scenes of death and destruction shook the conscience and the feelings of millions of people around the world, including european friendly countries. our people appreciate this lively human conscience, but we must stress in this regard that the people of palestine will not lose its will for freedom and life. they look forward to your support in their struggle to achieve their right to freedom and independence, to be able to build their future and to be able to give to their children their right to a safe life, a developed school and a bright future in their homeland – this homeland that deserves life and security. ladies and gentlemen, our great palestinian poet, mahmoud darwish, said time and again, ‘this land is worth living for’. in this regard, i should like to extend my deep thanks and gratitude to you, on behalf of the people of this great poet, for hosting the activities of his commemoration. this poet is the symbol of palestinian patriotism. he is the poet of humanity. to mahmoud darwish i say: ‘your poem, that has yet to be written, about the children of gaza, their suffering and their hopes, will be written by a poet from among those children who upheld your spirit, just as you upheld their cause and their little dreams’. thank you for listening. (sustained applause)
the european union is not a party to the conflict. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to thank you very much for coming to strasbourg to speak to us. it is now our common task to work for peace. we in the european union, the european parliament, want to be honest brokers. we want the people of israel to live in safe borders, and we want the people of palestine to live in safe borders. we are based on the dignity of the human person. a palestinian girl is as diligent in school as an israeli girl. an israeli boy likes to play soccer as much as a palestinian boy. the time must come for what we have achieved in europe: living together in peace. that is our wish for the middle east. we wish you, mr president abbas, success in your great efforts for peace. a secure palestinian state, but also - and we say this in reference to israel - a secure israeli state must not remain a vision! it must become a reality, and it must become a reality in our generation! if we want to, we can achieve this. mr president, i thank you. if circumstances permit, we will see you on february 23 or 24. the presidency of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly has asked me to visit palestine and israel. we will be travelling to gaza with a delegation under my chairmanship. we will also visit the areas in southern israel. if your schedule allows - and i hope it is possible - we will see you in ramallah. i will be in jerusalem, of course. we want to help - we say this with our minds and with our hearts - that peace becomes possible in the middle east between israel and palestine, between palestine and israel. president abbas, we thank you for your work and encourage you to continue on this path of reconciliation, reconciliation and peace. we thank you for coming to the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - i abstained on the report on climate change. i do not mean to say that i think the whole report is bad, but it has mixed scientifically correct data with polemically false statements. the committee's work was one-sided and did not take into account the diversity of scientific opinions. it is not possible to draw up a balanced report on this basis. unfortunately, this practice has become more common in the run-up to the european elections.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report 'european parliament resolution on the return and reception of the guantanamo detainees' because i welcome the principle of the reception of guantanamo detainees in the eu countries. many eu countries were complicit in the guantanamo affair, for example by granting overflight rights for the illegal transport of prisoners. however, the report contains some points which were not easy to agree to: the report does not explicitly refer to torture practices at guantanamo, in particular 'waterboarding', as torture, but as 'harsh interrogation methods', 'which amount to torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment'. the amendments tabled by the left (gue/ngl) and the greens (verts) calling for the dissolution of all secret prison camps, the right to compensation for the victims and an inquiry into the human rights violations in connection with guantanamo were all rejected.
mr president, i shall now withdraw the floor. you have now exceeded your speaking time by more than half. i take note of what they have said; i think we all got it.
i'm sure you're wrong. i take this to be on the record, and it would certainly be appropriate for the question of divergent behaviour, which is partly due to the time available, to be discussed in the bureau.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on kosovo.
it is certainly right that the fundamental problem should be addressed. as far as the specific situation is concerned, i simply recommend to mrs kallenbach that she should have the exact minute under the 'catch the eye' point, because it would make it much easier.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am grateful for this opportunity to take stock of the latest developments in kosovo. in two weeks’ time – on 17 february 2009 – kosovo will celebrate the first anniversary of its declaration of independence, and this debate is certainly timely. since then, kosovo has adopted a constitution and a completely new legal and institutional framework. the declaration of independence created a new situation and new challenges for the international community and for the eu in particular. the differing views of the member states in reaction to the declaration of independence in no way undermine the union’s overall policy objectives. we remain committed to assisting in the economic and political development of kosovo within the overall objective of ensuring long-term stability for the balkans as a whole. in the case of kosovo, that means contributing in particular to strengthening of the rule of law, respect for human rights and the protection of minorities, as well as encouraging economic development and working for the protection of kosovo’s rich cultural and religious heritage. it also means continuing to see kosovo within the wider framework set for the western balkans at the thessaloniki summit in 2003. the policy of supporting a european perspective for all the western balkan countries, agreed on that occasion, has since been reaffirmed, most recently by the council at its meeting of 8 december 2008. proof of our continued commitment lies in the rapid appointment early last year of pieter feith as eu special representative, who is based in priština, and you will have a chance to meet him in the committee on foreign affairs very soon. his task, and that of his team, is to provide valuable support on the ground in order to help us collectively meet all our political objectives. more recently, eulex, the most ambitious civilian esdp mission to date, began its mandate in early december 2008. its main aim is to assist and support the kosovo authorities in the area of the rule of law, specifically in developing the police, judiciary and customs administration. our main challenge over the coming months will be to intensify our engagement in kosovo, most importantly by moving to full deployment of eulex. we are realistic enough to know that 2009 will present its fair share of difficulties and obstacles. kosovo institutions will also face many challenges in the implementation of their commitments to develop a stable multi-ethnic and democratic kosovo. the international community’s assistance is crucial if kosovo is to succeed in integrating fully with the rest of the region. the commission has announced that later this year it will present a study examining ways of furthering kosovo’s political and socioeconomic development. this has been welcomed by the council. it should offer new opportunities and build on what has already been achieved, adjusted in the light of our experience over the next few months. the situation in the north of kosovo will certainly continue to be difficult over the months to come, and will require particular attention. the most recent outbreaks of ethnic violence in mitrovica in early january this year were potentially serious but were contained. it is particularly encouraging that the authorities in priština acted with reasonable restraint. however, these incidents are a constant reminder of the constant risk of destabilisation there. we will continue to monitor closely the situation in the north of the country in particular. the presidency is grateful for the continuing interest of members of parliament and for your support for the role of the union in the region. i particularly welcome the proposed resolution which has been tabled at this part-session. it is encouraging that parliament is able to give its broad support to our efforts in the region, and to the union’s commitment to the stability of kosovo within the wider region. this presidency is committed to keeping you informed, both through regular discussions here in the plenary, as well as more detailed briefings through the committees. we are planning various activities this spring, inter alia to dedicate the gymnich meeting in late march to the western balkans. i also know that pieter feith will be meeting with the afet committee next week, and he will be able to provide a comprehensive update on the latest developments on the ground.
member of the commission. − madam president, just one year after the declaration of independence, the situation in kosovo, and in the whole western balkans region, is overall stable and under control, in spite of some incidents. the european union presence in kosovo is progressively materialising, taking over from the united nations. the eu special representative is residing in priština, and the eu’s rule of law mission (eulex) is deployed throughout kosovo and will be fully operational at the end of march. a stable and multi-ethnic kosovo is a key priority for the european union. the best way for kosovo to move towards european integration is by creating a democratic and multi-ethnic society, with full respect for the rule of law, cooperating peacefully with its neighbours and contributing to regional and european stability. this includes extensive measures to safeguard the future of all communities in kosovo, thereby creating a basis for sustainable economic and political development. the commission’s progress report of november 2008 was considered by the authorities to be an objective and fair assessment of what was achieved and of the challenges ahead. the kosovo authorities have committed themselves to working and cooperating with the commission in meeting these challenges. we allocate significant funding to kosovo under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (epa), as part of the overall pledge of eur 1.2 billion reached at the july 2008 donors’ conference. in 2008, the instrument for pre-accession supported projects worth eur 185 million in kosovo, a three-fold increase compared to the previous year. we will allocate a further eur 106 million in 2009. the management of this funding is the exclusive responsibility of our commission liaison office in priština, which is now fully operational with all relevant control systems in place, and takes over from the european agency for reconstruction. the commission welcomes the draft resolution being discussed here today in the european parliament. it touches on many issues that we agree are of crucial importance, such as the preservation of kosovo’s cultural heritage, the improvement of its public administration capacity, better integration among its communities, the importance of multi-ethnic education, and the plight of roma families in lead-contaminated refugee camps in the north. the commission takes all these issues very seriously. perhaps i can say a few words on each of them in turn. since 2004, the commission has financed the reconstruction of religious and cultural heritage sites – its programme with a budget of eur 10 million – with the close involvement of the council of europe. in 2008 and 2009 funding is continuing, with eur 2.5 million more for further projects. we consider this a very important aspect of reconciliation and have supported the establishment of kosovo’s cultural heritage database. graveyards could also be included in this debate so as to ensure their proper restoration and preservation. i would like to express our gratitude to the european parliament for the additional amount of eur 3 million, within the 2008 eu budget, for cultural heritage reconstruction in the war-affected areas in the western balkans. the commission has allocated half of this amount – eur 1.5 million – to kosovo, in a joint project with the ministry of culture, in the multi-ethnic town of prizren. we are grateful for the additional amount under this heading which is also allocated in this year’s budget. under the 2007 instrument for pre-accession, the commission is implementing projects to facilitate the return and reintegration of internally displaced people and refugees in kosovo, for a total of amount of eur 3.3 million. we have envisaged further funding –eur 4 million under the 2008 instrument for pre-accession, and eur 2 million under the 2009 instrument for pre-accession. this money will also contribute to improving the local capacity to reintegrate returnees into the local social and economic environment. gender equality is high on our agenda as well. the commission has provided technical assistance to the kosovo gender equality agency. it has also supported the activities of several local ngos working in the field of gender equality and women’s rights through the european instrument for democracy and human rights. as regards public administration capacity, the commission monitors the implementation of kosovo’s public administration reform strategy and action plan. we have stressed with the authorities the urgency of adopting the civil service law. through our involvement in setting up the regional school for public administration we also cooperate with the kosovo institute for public administration. special attention is paid to the ministry of local government and administration, with a support project for almost eur 1 million. the commission is making significant efforts to help reform the education system in kosovo. our financial assistance is comprehensive. it aims at improving both material conditions and the quality of teaching at primary, secondary and tertiary levels and in the vocational sector, as well as strengthening the multicultural aspects as a basic condition for reconciliation. following the july donors’ conference, a multi-donor trust fund was set up by the world bank for the broader social sector, including education. with eur 5 million, the commission is among the main contributors to the fund. altogether, eu assistance to education in kosovo, over the period 2006-2010, amounts to eur 30.5 million. the opening of a multi-ethnic european university college will receive our support once all local stakeholders reach an agreement to make this effort a sustainable project. the plight of roma families in lead-contaminated refugee camps in the north is an issue of serious concern. the commission is actively assisting in finding a swift and sustainable solution acceptable to all. we have repeatedly called on all parties to refrain from politicising the issue, and to act only with the best interests of the roma families in mind. finally, kosovo also benefits from our multi-beneficiary programmes, covering the western balkans and turkey, which fund the process of civil registration of roma people. our support for roma in kosovo also includes education. together with the council of europe, we support quality education for roma children, including in their mother tongue. in my view, all this is very much in line with your proposals. i thank all honourable members of this parliament very much for their attention and look forward to your questions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur, because i think we have drawn up a very good resolution together. the resolution calls on the council and the commission to act together in kosovo, to have eulex act together with the eu high representative, to create synergies in the interests of economic and social life in kosovo, which must be genuinely enriched. the eulex mission must also ensure that the legal proceedings which have been there for years are finally taken up and brought to an end. there are so many atrocities that have not been uncovered and brought to justice. corruption must also be fought there. there are still many criminals in kosovo who are not punished. the european union should also, in addition to what we have just heard, remember that not only is there a need to do something on a large scale, but that daily life, the local possibilities of projects, need to be addressed more, from person to person. this work is very important. we must appeal to the government in kosovo to finally start implementing its constitution, which actually includes the matti ahtisaari plan. the people of kosovo must realise in their daily lives that they are truly living together, that serbs and albanians and all other minorities in kosovo are treated as equal citizens. the kosovo government must also promote decentralisation. i am of course very much in favour of the establishment of a european college, a multiethnic one, so that alongside the university of pristina and the university of mitrovica, something can be built together that is geared towards a common future. i also hope that serbia will finally remember that the serbs in kosovo do not want to be prevented from participating in the government. they must be allowed to participate in government, in parliamentary work and in civil life. only then can kosovo flourish.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. my group, the gue/ngl, rejects the resolution on kosovo. the majority of eu states, but not all, have recognised kosovo in breach of international law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the recognition of kosovo has set a fatal precedent. others have since followed suit - see south ossetia and abkhazia. the eu has launched the eulex mission in kosovo. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. eulex has executive powers in some areas. eulex officials can thus easily overrule decisions taken by kosovo authorities. eulex also has 500 riot police. eulex and kfor conducted a joint counter-insurgency exercise on 26 january. this is also reflected in the unfortunately very close cooperation between the eu and nato in kosovo. the eu and others are also pushing ahead with the neoliberal economic reconstruction in kosovo. it's not in the interest of the people on the ground. we therefore call for solutions based solely on international law and a clear vote against the eulex mission. if we really want to work for the people on the ground, this eulex mission cannot do that.
i have to say, madam president, as the shadow rapporteur for the epp, i welcome the excellent text by mr lagendijk. we support serbia's reform path and we naturally respect the tiny minority of eu member states which have not yet recognised kosovo under international law. but we must beware of the illusion that this development can be reversed. 75% of this house were in favour of recognising kosovo. the commission has spoken in favour of it, 23 of the 27 member states, all the g7 countries, four of the six former yugoslav republics, three of the four neighbouring states of kosovo. this shows that this development is irreversible. that is why it is important to look to the future, and there are many dangers. the first great danger is that of a partition of kosovo. so far, the division of the former yugoslavia has been along the old republican or the old internal yugoslav borders of the autonomous regions. if the map were to be redrawn here, for example in mitrowica, the consequence would be that the albanians in the preševo valley in serbia, the people in the novi pazar sand dune and others would also ask where the borders should be. this would trigger a development that would be extremely dangerous. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. and the protection of minorities under the former ahtisaari plan, which is now enshrined in the kosovar constitution, is the most extensive protection of minorities in the world. the serbs in kosovo should seize this opportunity and take advantage of this minority protection. mr president-in-office, you know that i myself come from a minority which has been abused for the benefit of others, and that is something which the serbs in kosovo should avoid. the other danger is chaos and corruption. i can only say that we must strengthen eulex, because unmik was not the solution but part of the problem.
i have to say, madam president, i thank joost lagendijk and my colleagues from afet for ensuring that the issue of kosovo remains on our agenda with this resolution and this debate. i think that the people there simply deserve it, after the eu failed in that area in the 1990s. we have a debt of gratitude, namely that we are very much accompanying the people of kosovo and the whole region on their way to the eu. the first of these is the need to improve the conditions for economic development. otherwise, social unrest is inevitable. i would ask the commission to make sure that the cefta agreements are actually implemented by all those involved. a request to the council: please ensure that member states treat the forced return of asylum seekers with great sensitivity!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the budgetary control allows itself to give a few sentences to the high foreign policy. we have noted that in kosovo - the third country receiving the most aid from the european union - there are cases of corruption of great concern, with serious consequences for the security of our budget and the financial interests of the community. there is a final report by a united nations task force, the commission's anti-fraud office and the guarda di finanza. this final report has not been implemented to date. it's dated late june 2008. this final report identifies serious cases of corruption involving eu funds. we're waiting for an update. this final report is really a final report. there is no follow-up organization. there is no one there to represent our interests at the moment. the commission is called upon to name someone here too. eulex cannot do this job by itself. i also object to our continuing to talk ourselves out of the precarious status of this state.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in my view, the first thing that matters in the economic crisis is to link crisis management to the global challenge of the climate crisis. we would be making a big mistake if our economic measures were to be as unambitious in pursuing climate protection and energy security objectives as we have been in regulating co2 emissions from cars. we must not make the mistake of giving too much space to the false whispers of the automobile industry. the mistake made last winter can now be seen everywhere. the same companies that have prevented us from implementing the ambitious co2 regulation for cars have now had their big suckers on hold and cannot sell them. i think our goal really has to be to make it clear to the companies that the future belongs to cars that are small, efficient and climate-friendly, and that all the efforts related to promotion must be to push these models. it is also necessary to clarify the extent to which innovations such as electric drives are actually taken into account. but this can only be done with a coordinated approach to energy policy. i am convinced that if we concentrate on cars and do not look at the whole of the transport sector now, at what the public transport sector will look like in ten years' time, we are going too far. there too, many jobs can be secured and created. the commissioner has made an important point by pointing out that not only cars are produced, but also buses, trains, etc. so think beyond the day-to-day and design and promote sustainable transport systems now!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the presidency and the commission for their very clear statements on the situation. i share the optimism of commissioner verheugen that the automobile industry has recognized the signs of the times and will find solutions for the future in many areas. but of course we live in the real world, and after a 5% reduction in vehicle production last year, the industry expects another 15% in 2009. this is the biggest decline we have seen in the european union since 1993, with 3.8 million fewer vehicles compared to 2007. it is important to remember that for every job in the automotive industry, five more jobs in related sectors and industries depend on it. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the impact of the crisis on the automobile industry. both urgently need better access to credit. it has already been said that the automobile industry has access to 9 billion from the european investment bank. but they also need other loans - from manufacturers and suppliers to finance their operations and from customers to finance the purchase of cars. so we need to push the envelope to support demand, because car registrations in europe fell by 19% in the last quarter of 2008, and commercial vehicles by 24%. the banks have been given billions of dollars in aid during the crisis so far to save the whole system. but the car banks have been largely forgotten. they have no access to government assistance. as in the usa, the automobile industry has already had to pay back billions of euros for uncovered leasing residues throughout europe. these losses are due to the fact, of course, that with the 2 million vehicles on hold, the book value of leased vehicles is falling significantly and that is why there are problems. this means that very rapid action is needed to bring these banks under the bailout, as has happened with other banks in the system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we will only be able to tackle climate change and the reordering of the world economy if we tackle them together. we need the green new deal. the crisis in the automobile industry is not merely an economic crisis. the car companies' collapse is also the receipt for their bigger, faster, heavier philosophy of the last few years. general motors, daimler and co. have been betting on gasoline engines until a few months ago, and in their marketing they have declared the off-road vehicle to be the new city car. they just ignored climate change. this is payback time! if we're going to allocate billions of dollars in taxpayer money, then the conditions have to be clear: with that money, the car companies have to shift to a smaller, more fuel-efficient product line, to alternative powertrains -- not just for the environment, not just for the climate, but also for the long-term preservation of hundreds of thousands of jobs. i'll give you an example from my home country of germany of how you can go wrong. if, say, the head of deutsche bank, josef ackermann, scraps his nine-year-old third, fourth or fifth car and buys a new porsche cayenne, he gets a gift of 4,000 euros. this is not social or ecological, it's just stupid! you can't fake that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner has just told us how dramatic the figures are and what the situation is at the moment on the car market. dramatic events also require a unified response. in 2006, we launched an own-initiative report in the european parliament: harmonization of the motor vehicle tax and then please orientate it towards co2 and consumption. i believe that this would be a short-term programme in which the council could show in a united way - because it must be unanimous - how to put consumer-oriented motor vehicle taxes on the web. with regard to what mrs de vits has mentioned, namely general motors, i would like to ask the commission whether the commission has taken any measures in the event of the collapse of the parent company. will the commission then act in a united manner to find a european solution for the subsidiaries of general motors?
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i should like to thank members for a very useful debate. the council appreciates all your contributions to the debate and will try to do its best to play its part, with the commission, in fixing as many problems as we can in the automotive industry. there is no doubt that there should be some short-term measures, and they are already happening at member state level. so i think we are in agreement that those measures must be realistically sustainable financially, as well as in other respects. they should be targeted, effective and, most of all, must be carried out in a way that would be compatible with the strict state aid rules under community law. i informed you, for example, of our initiatives regarding the scrapping scheme; so it is really important that the steps being taken are in conformity with the competition and state aid rules and avoid distortion of the single market. my second point is that we should still bear in mind that the european automobile industry leads the world – we are exporters, those who are producing the cars – and, in this light, we should bear in mind the need for maintaining the long-term effectiveness, as well as the competitiveness of this industry. so the measures being taken must fulfil certain criteria regarding the long-term viability and competitiveness of the european industry, including investment in innovation and clean cars etc. so the council is making all the necessary efforts to ensure that all those efforts for rtd and innovations in the automotive industry, but also short-term measures in this report, are fully coherent with the overarching goals of the lisbon strategy. my third point is that we must follow developments outside europe. we are certainly aware that the crisis in the us automotive sector is structural and deep, and us producers are in a much worse position than european car makers. so it is obvious – and günter verheugen mentioned this – that the us cannot allow its automotive industry to simply die, because it would not be beneficial for us. but we still have to work politically with our international partners, in particular through the wto, in order to ensure that a level playing field is maintained as far as possible. the same applies to the other automobile makers and industries in asia. we are also watching developments in korea and japan etc. we are now in the run-up to the competitiveness council, which will take place in early march, and we hope to produce a high-quality and, of course, consensual decision for the european spring council, which will deal mostly with economic issues.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i agree with what many speakers have said, particularly mrs harms. the short-term measures we are taking now must not be in conflict with our long-term objectives. that is the absolute decisive point. now, since you've been so kind, i'll be kind and say a sentence that i'm sure you'll like, which i said back in 2006: the future of the european automobile industry will be green, or it will have no future in europe, to be clear. it is debatable whether the model policy of european manufacturers, especially german manufacturers, was responsible for the crisis we are now experiencing. i don't know, man. there have been cars in the past that were environmentally friendly, that were low-fuel -- think of the mercedes smart, which mercedes lost billions of dollars on. well, the picture's not that simple. from an ecological point of view, the model policy was clearly wrong, and the fact that the changeover is now taking place in a crisis does not make it any easier, but it does not change the fact that this changeover must take place and that it must take place quickly. we are in complete agreement on that. we are not going to introduce a customs protection against american cars, mr louis. if there's one thing we shouldn't do, it's this. american cars really do not play a role in the european market, whereas european cars play a major role in the american market. if someone in the european parliament is demanding that we protect our market from american cars, i fear that there will be someone in the congress in washington who says that we should protect our market from european cars. we're not gonna look so good. i really beg you not to pursue that idea any further. i can only support mr groote's views on the motor vehicle tax. i also liked the very good comments that have been made here specifically on this subject. the commission has long been calling for the conversion of the motor vehicle tax to a carbon-based tax and i am saddened by the slow progress on this issue. mr. groote, you will understand that i cannot comment publicly on the question you posed to general motors and opel. it is not enough to say that we are monitoring this development very carefully and are in touch with all those who are concerned. i would also like to draw the attention of those who have rightly been particularly concerned with the employment problem that the commission has already made a proposal on how the fund for adaptation to globalisation can be made more flexible and more effective. if what the commission has proposed were to happen quickly and be implemented quickly - and i urge you to do so - we would be able to help, in particular, the temporary workers in the automobile industry and the unskilled workers who are the first ones to be hit at the moment. the rules on the scrappage premium - this has been mentioned several times and i want to say it again - are clear. there can be no european regulation here that says that everyone has to do this, that is completely out of the question. there can be no european rule that it must be the same everywhere. the key values must be set at european level, and that is the case. we agreed that at the meeting in brussels on 16 january. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is indeed quite correct to say that intelligent transport systems, intelligent traffic management systems, modern, innovative solutions for individual transport and for the mass transport of the future must be found and that the crisis may offer an opportunity to push this forward. i'd like to, anyway.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you have just given a statement on the bureau's decision and explained why the system has been changed in the catch the eye debate. i want to protest formally against this amendment on this point. this procedure was introduced to stimulate debate, to establish a dialogue with the commission, to strengthen the culture of debate. the bureau has now decided to do something completely counterproductive, and i would ask you very warmly to raise this point and to take up this protest in the conference of presidents.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my colleague karim is absolutely right. the problem is simply the wording, the very foundations of article 20. we must also look at the realities on the ground. firstly, not all member states have consular protection, and in many cases this consular protection is very limited, and the security structures are not even sufficient for the consulates themselves. i have seen this in the case of the german consul who then drove around at night to pick up colleagues, without security, with his driver, on roads that were absolutely unsafe. these are simply conditions that are not acceptable. you can't go to countries like india or latin american countries -- there are many other countries where you have to be present in a critical environment like mumbai -- and then have small staffs on the ground without adequate security structures. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore important that you carry out a careful analysis in the council and also in the commission. we cannot preach that we must always be present in the world and see europe as a global partner, and then not even have a security structure and not have intelligent information systems. we are simply making a fool of ourselves if we do not analyse our own structures properly and ensure that we have the appropriate protection we need. so i would strongly suggest that you really do a clean analysis of the structures, that you do a simulation, as other countries do, and that you focus not only on the central capitals, the metropolises, but in these mega countries and mega cities, just imagine that they need to have representation in the other big cities of the world. mumbai is not the last time this happens. there will be a new mumbai, just as there have been other disasters. please visualize and prepare for this.
mr president, i have just a short recommendation to the council. i appreciate very much what you said, but can you make sure that, once you foresee this kind of simulation today, that you invite some of the people who were actually in mumbai, because it could give you some insight?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in ireland, at least, it has been detected by checks. ten years ago in belgium, the chickens were still out of the nest. in both cases, accidents are said to have happened, but the accidents have never been proven. after ten years, the process in belgium is now complete. someone got a year and a half on probation. but how it got in is not clear. so we have to continue to assume that there are toxic substances being deliberately added, that feed is being used to save on the cost of disposal. the oil is then cut and put into the feed. both times it's about transistor oil. until the accidents are investigated and it is proved that it was indeed the combustion, it must be assumed that in ireland a criminal act has been committed again involving these toxic substances, these pcbs. that means we need to increase the control density so that the criminal energy is not focused on these feedstocks, that they think they can save costs here. the open declaration we are adopting here tomorrow is therefore another way, not of fighting criminal energy, but of increasing the degree of control. and you have to measure risks not just by what factories they are, but you have to measure those risks by who is running those factories and what dark channels that oil is coming from. we know our own weaknesses, and it must be clear to the controls, to the institutions, that they are a higher risk and must therefore be subject to stricter controls.
the commission has already done so. we are talking tonight about the use of waste oil containing pcbs in a food waste recycling plant in ireland. tomorrow we shall be discussing the placing on the market and the use of feedingstuffs. tomorrow we shall find that we have already jointly set a number of important and targeted targets in this sector. and yet, there are still problems in this area. the five questions put by mrs mcguinness in her oral question should therefore be taken seriously and answered seriously. commissioner, you yourself spoke of gaps which have not yet been closed in the implementation of our legislation in some member states. it is true that the feed sector as a whole has shown itself to be reliable in recent years, but some farms are either unaware of the risks or do not want to see them. and the risk-based controls may well still need improvement in some member states. we all - we, the declining farmers, and consumers alike - expect the eu legislation to be applied correctly and to be subject to the appropriate controls. i think that the general food law, food and feed hygiene and the conditions for the approval of food processing establishments must be considered. yes, we want to use surplus food. i want us to be able to do that and not destroy it. but traceability must be ensured, and undesirable substances and products must be safely and controlled to be excluded. the professional qualifications of the farm staff in the field of food and feed safety shall be present if feed businesses are to be approved. feed is the basis of food safety, and farmers need to have safety so that the consumer has safe and good food.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has not yet taken any action to ensure that the safety of the vessels is maintained. i think it is ridiculous to think that by burning waste oil and the smoke that then passes through a few bread crumbs, one can cause such a dioxin contamination that two hundred times the dioxin levels in pigmeat have appeared not in the feed but in the pigmeat! i continue to believe, unless proven otherwise, that there was deliberate tampering. every traffic accident is re-enacted, and then it is examined how it could have happened. so we have to follow up this accident, if there was one, and see if this type of combustion and the smoke that comes through can actually get that much dioxin in. i am a practitioner, and i say that all this is nonsense. it was a deliberate interference, and we are being made the final repository for this poison that doesn't degrade, and then continues in humans for generations.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are discussing today the so-called open declaration. it is about transparency in feed as the basis for healthy food for consumers, and it is about making sure that the customers of compound feed have a view of what is being delivered to them. i hope that when we adopt this regulation today, we will have come to a good conclusion after a long journey, and i would like to thank the commission, which has helped us a great deal with its constructive work on the matter. it met with the absolute political will of parliament to enforce this open declaration and it met with a tenacious but fair debate with the council. the result can be seen. let's go back to the beginning. we had the bse crisis, and in 1997 there was a final report by the committee of inquiry in which parliament called for this open declaration. the commission put forward a proposal which became directive 2002/2/ec, which, in a compromise with the council - which was then being discussed by all the authorities - enforced the open declaration, namely that +/- 15% had to be indicated on the label and the exact composition had to be disclosed on request. this was a directive, not a regulation, and the countries were very reluctant to implement it or not at all. the feed industry took the matter to the court of justice and we got a first-class confirmation: the legality of this directive was not in doubt until we had the exact information. we have taken account of this judgment by means of a further procedure in parliament and have now come to a conclusion with this regulation. i have had the honour of being rapporteur on each occasion and during this long period there has been a very close and trusting cooperation with the commission. today we have a result that has been fought hard but fairly. it can be seen. it is also clear that it is supported by the majority of the house and the political groups. there are no amendments, which means that we shall also be voting for this regulation by a large majority. we have a good regulation which guarantees an open declaration in three steps: first, the components in descending order of their percentage shares, second, the information with +/- 15% for the feed companies, here we have not specified any reservation of intellectual property in this law, but referred to the general legislation, and third, the exact information with the authorities. i would also like to point out that we have set up a register. there will be no more feeding and no more mixing of components in the european union without these being published, because they have to be included in the register. this is important for the control authorities, but it is also important for the public and for the customers. i can therefore say that as rapporteur i am very satisfied with this result overall.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the committee on agriculture and rural development for its work on this dossier, and especially the rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs, who all played an important role. mr graefe zu baringdorf has managed to steer discussions during the negotiations with great skill, and we are very grateful to him. the compromise package maintains the high level of feed safety achieved in the eu. it strikes the right balance between consumer protection and intellectual property rights. it removes the burden of the pre-market authorisation procedure for bio-proteins, modernises the labelling of feed through proper information for the customer and places co-regulation at the heart of legislative procedures. it improves market transparency through the notification system for new feed materials, facilitates innovation and competitiveness in the eu feed business and marks a concrete step against the misleading of feed users – be they farmers or pet owners. the result of the negotiations is the compromise package submitted for your vote, which amounts to simplification and modernisation of the current legal framework. the provisions concerning the so-called ‘open declaration’ allow for a more modern type of labelling. feed materials incorporated into compound feed for food-producing animals will have to be labelled by weight, in descending order. on top of this, the exact percentage of weight has to be indicated for highlighted feed materials, and in the case of voluntary labelling. furthermore, the provision that certain information concerning compound feed can be transferred from the competent authorities to the purchasers on grounds of urgency improves the appropriate information to the user in cases such as feed contamination incidents. in this context, the commission makes the following declarations. first, in order to adapt annex iii on the tolerances for the compositional labelling of feed materials and compound feed to scientific and technical development, the commission and its services envisage taking up examination of that annex. in this context, the commission will also consider certain feed materials with moisture content greater than 50%. second, with regard to the labelling of additives, the commission will study whether the principles of information through labelling of feed could also apply to the additives and premixtures authorised under the regulation on additives for use in animal nutrition. finally, the commission understands that any urgencies relating to human and animal health and the environment may include urgencies generated, among other things, by negligence, international fraud or criminal acts.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, on behalf of the group of the european people's party. i believe that the approach adopted in this report is a model for parliamentary work in this house. we shall not have any amendments in the vote today because there has been very substantial work here across the groups. i am convinced that this result can be seen. we have achieved a balanced result that safeguards the interests of farmers as users of the feed, feed producers and all other actors in the food chain. the transparency is being improved and my group in particular has also attached great importance to the creation of a register in which raw materials mixed with animal feed must be reported accordingly. we have food scandals all the time. the new law will not prevent this either, because no european regulation is suitable to prevent criminal energy. but the regulations will help to ensure that, in the event of scandal, it can be ascertained more quickly which substances have been mixed. i also think it is good that the feed manufacturers are allowed to provide additional information on a voluntary basis. if they give any more information, it must be scientifically proven, and i think that is an excellent suggestion. i believe that this new feed law will significantly improve protection and that farmers will be able to choose the best feed for their animals by knowing in descending order the order in which components have been mixed. i would like to thank again all those involved in the production of this good report.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank our rapporteur, count zu baringdorf, very warmly. it has followed a clear line not only in this report but also in the past for many years, always with the aim of making clear what we have achieved today - namely, clarity for farmers in the field of marketing and use - but also of setting clear requirements for marketing and use. we are talking about the second step today, and that has been made clear time and again. commissioner, we discussed last night, tonight, the first step, which is production. i would like to return to this point: the way in which production is carried out, the way in which production is controlled, is the most important basic requirement for this report, so that we can have healthy, safe food at the end of the day, so that we can produce healthy and safe food from it. i would like to point out once again that i believe that the approval of establishments which also process food for animal feed should be given greater consideration, and that the haccp concept should be called for as a basis - possibly as a basis for approval throughout europe - because that is also a problem in both our debates yesterday and today. we need the same controls with the same risks throughout the european union. we will never be able to rule out the possibility of abuse, but with this report and with yesterday's debate we have laid a good foundation for providing security that is not exaggerated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank once again our rapporteur, who has delivered a good report in all the negotiations here today. i wish him the full support of this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! i do not want to say anything more about the content, which has been sufficiently explained. i should like to thank the rapporteur for his tenacity in the trilogue. it's been a long journey with this report. we know that there was a judgment of the european court of justice, and it was discussed in a clean and fair manner. we have had the opportunity to talk about this for a long time and graefe has shown as rapporteur that a clean solution can be reached in a short time, even in a first reading agreement. we have crossed the line a few times since 1994, but it has always been a fair relationship, and i would like to thank him again for his work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have no time to speak, and i would therefore like to add something new: if we now adopt a new european feed law here in parliament, probably by a large majority, and if the council adopts this law, then we shall have reached a new, high quality standard in europe. i would ask the two commissioners present to insist that these european standards be applied in future to imports of feed and food. we can only survive in this global competition in europe if we demand the same standards for imports. the commission must therefore also press for our european standards to be included in the wto negotiations and become a global standard in the wto negotiations. then we need not fear this worldwide competition.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not alone in its concern. thank you for your kind words. i think it's a good report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the greater controls that this report provides, however, may deter criminal energy. criminal energy always goes where it sees promise, where it sees gaps, and we have now been able to close them in some areas. i hope that the understanding - mr nicholson has said it - of both the feed industry and the farmers is that there is something to be defended here, that there is a community to be formed against what is being attempted here, which is the dumping of toxic substances over feed. then i'm pretty sure we'll be able to push back the criminal energy as well. i would like to make it clear again that we have not created a separate line for intellectual property here, but that we refer to the legislation that applies, and that applies here as well. we wanted to prevent the obligation to disclose information from hiding behind this intellectual property. that is why it is a good regulation. let me close by thanking the shadow reporters. there have been conflicts here too. we have different opinions here in parliament. but what we created then, i think, is now being carried by everyone. let me also thank the administration of our committee, in this case mr emmes. that was a great effort. we members of parliament are always in the lead in the political sphere, but we must be able to draw on this contribution in the administration. that worked well here too. i would also like to say that when we have codecision, parliamentarism is fun. it has always been said that when the codecision procedure is introduced in agriculture, things will become much more complicated and take much longer. no, we see that if you work well, if you understand the business, if you have good work and good political opponents, then you can also bring it very quickly. i think this is proof that the european parliament's expertise can be used and can help to set good legislation in motion.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. advertising is important, i agree with you. but advertising is not only done aggressively and professionally, it is also done through events that take place in the area where the food comes from. if we are associated with mad cows in the world, if our animal of honour has been driven mad by us, or if, as is the case now with the dioxin problem - which is of course also a worldwide problem - there are recalls in the countries, if on our television news there are millions of sick cows slaughtered all over the world, then this too is advertising, only this is negative. we must be careful not to get into a contradiction here. on the one hand we talk about good products, on the other hand we have the negative reports. but we're working on it. we have just seen this in the debate and in the conclusions we have reached. if we want to advertise to the outside world - yes, that is right, we have every reason to do so, we have good products - then i do not want general advertising, but that europe's diversity should also be visible in this advertising. you know that in germany we have a situation where the federal constitutional court has cancelled an advertisement, a kind of forced advertising with a compulsory levy. it pointed out that advertising which does not differentiate between the individual qualities does not increase sales but that it is important that the individual producers can advertise their specific products. it is also increasingly important - not only within europe but also abroad - to describe not only the final quality of a product but also the quality of the process. what about animal welfare, what about the environment, what about the ingredients, what about the structure of agriculture, what about fair trade? these are all criteria which do not necessarily determine final quality, but which are becoming increasingly important to consumers. so we must also incorporate this in advertising and we must see that europe's image in the world is further strengthened.
the next item is the voting time.
thank you very much, mrs. roure. i can see even among the top lawyers here in the house, or those who think they do not know, that the rapporteur has the right to make a statement for two minutes if this report has not been discussed in the house. that is why mrs roure has that right. it has taken note of this and everyone should accept it, because that is what our rules of procedure say. (applause from the centre)
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. there is a humanitarian disaster taking place in northern sri lanka that is receiving relatively little attention. the sri lankan army is carrying out attacks, attacks on the civilian population, massacres of the civilian population. a clinic has been hit, and the overall situation is catastrophic, according to humanitarian organizations. the red cross has issued a distress call. the situation in sri lanka has escalated and the european union is not innocent of this. the european union has torpedoed the negotiations, which were led by norway, by putting the ltte on the eu terrorist list. this has made it impossible to negotiate within the european union. in sri lanka itself, there is no freedom of the press. a journalist was recently murdered. the german ambassador who spoke at the funeral was described by the president as someone who had to leave the country. he had simply presented the situation correctly. the north is talking about thousands of refugees, and i must say very clearly that what is happening here as a whole is a situation that we must have much more in our sights. the european union should be much more explicit in its opposition to what the sri lankan government is doing at the moment. both the sri lankan army's attacks and those of the ltte are not in order. however, it is clear that civilians are the main targets here. it is necessary to help the people trapped in the north and to achieve an immediate ceasefire, because it is quite clear that a great many civilians are being killed here. this cannot be allowed to happen, and the european union will be complicit in this if it does not say very clearly: end support for the sri lankan government.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as a member of the saarc delegation, i was able to visit sri lanka on several occasions. i was there to witness firsthand the suffering of the population in the civil war that has lasted for 25 years and has cost 70,000 lives. fighting between government forces and the ltte has continued to escalate. large parts of the north were brought under control and strongholds of tamil rebels were taken. the statement made to me by human rights organizations in colombo and jaffna at that time has unfortunately been confirmed time and again: war is an institution. the humanitarian situation is alarming. thousands are on the run. there is a lack of medical care and food. aid organisations must be able to have unimpeded access to the civilian population during a ceasefire to be agreed. the government has set up corridors to facilitate the evacuation of civilians from the combat zones it is unbelievable that the tamil tigers do not respect this safe zone, continue to fire and use people as shields. the tokyo group, comprising japan, the united states, norway and the european union, called on the ltte leadership to finally negotiate details of a ceasefire with the sri lankan government. it is in the interest of all - including the tamils - that the peace process be initiated. i welcome the government's decision to respect the 13th amendment to the constitution and to hand over the provincial council to the elected representatives of the north and east. we also expect a guarantee that the human rights violations we have just discussed and the violations of the freedom of the press will be thoroughly and neutrally investigated. the security and stability of sri lanka must not remain a dream for the future.
i have to say, madam president, the dramatic images from sri lanka show us that a decades-long brutal civil war is nearing its climax. we all know that weapons may end a war, but they cannot bring about lasting peace. and you cannot fight terrorism effectively and permanently with weapons, because terrorism always finds its way. that is why it is important to look at the causes. the next step must be to bring about a peaceful solution based on the following basic elements: first, a clear monopoly of power on the part of the common state. no state can allow ethnic groups or sections of the population to take up arms and wage armed struggle. but it also means that it is necessary for this state to respect democratic rules, the rule of law and to actively seek a political solution in the sense of autonomy, which finally solves sri lanka's nationality problems, which are an old historical legacy, which are also a legacy of the colonial era and which urgently need to be addressed. i would therefore like to make a very clear appeal to the european union and to all the countries of the world to help build democracy and the rule of law, to strengthen autonomy and minority rights and, of course, to help economically develop a country which has been bloodied horribly by the terror of this civil war. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the peace process, but that it should be involved in the peace process, and that it should be involved in the peace process.
i have to say, madam president, i have come forward because i was chairman of the german-brazilian parliamentary group in the german bundestag for ten years and i know brazil very well. i am surprised that the lula government does not extradite this convicted murderer to a european member state. i hope that the process in brazil will be completed very quickly. the lula government has made a special commitment to human rights. human rights also include the fair punishment of convicted murderers. i therefore hope that this motion for a resolution will receive a great deal of support. i will personally use my contacts with brazilian parliamentarians to persuade the government there to accept this extradition request.
i have to say, madam president, i would just like to say that the most important issues are being dealt with on thursday afternoon and that we must therefore deal with these important issues, because they are urgent, on thursday afternoon. the only ones to blame are those who are absent on thursday. these are cowards and they should consider running for the european parliament again.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday, 5 february 2008.
i am not going to go into detail. two weeks ago, a polish engineer, piotr stańczak, who had been held hostage by terrorists in pakistan since last september, was murdered by his captors. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my indignation at this heinous murder of an innocent man, a polish citizen and a citizen of the european union. the european parliament condemns this crime in the strongest terms. we would like to express our deepest sympathy and condolences to the family of the deceased and all his relatives. terrorism is a direct attack on freedom, human rights and democracy. terrorism is the attempt to create facts by blind violence and destroy our common values. it is one of the greatest threats to the security and stability of the international community. terrorism is a crime that must not be allowed to go unpunished. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say in the mother tongue of the murdered engineer: niech spoczywa w wiecznym pokoju. in memory of piotr stańczak, i ask you to rise from your seats and remember him. (parliament adopted the resolution) i am not going to go into detail. the fires in australia have caused tragic loss of life in recent days. in these worst bushfires in australian history, many people lost their lives in a terrible way. we were all horrified by the violence of this natural disaster and its horrific consequences. i have written to the australian prime minister expressing the european parliament's deep sympathy. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to take this opportunity to express once again our solidarity with australia, its people and its authorities in this time of grief. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community. but at this very moment, i would like to express on behalf of all of us my deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of all those who have died. we're with them in spirit. i am not going to go into detail. we are again receiving worrying news from the islamic republic of iran. seven senior members of the baha'i community have been detained since may 2008. during these eight months, they were denied any opportunity to obtain legal aid. now, the seven dignitaries of the baha'i community are to be sentenced this week in a trial that does not meet even the most basic requirements of the rule of law. nobel laureate and iranian lawyer shirin ebadi, who was willing to take on the defense of the arrested leaders, has herself received death threats. the european parliament reiterated its call on the iranian authorities to respect human rights and the rights of religious minorities and to reconsider their indictment of the seven baha'i leaders fariba kamalabadi, jamaloddin khanjani, afif naeimi, saeid rasaie, mahvash sabet, behrouz tavakkoli and vahid tizfahm . these people were imprisoned solely for their faith and should be released immediately. (applause from the centre) i am not going to go into detail. last friday, february 13, 2009, in the venezuelan capital of caracas, our spanish colleague luis herrero was arrested by the venezuelan government for statements he made to the media and subsequently deported from the country. mr herrero was in the country as an official member of an epp-ed delegation invited by an opposition party to the constitutional referendum. when he was arrested, police raided his hotel room and then, without any official explanation and without any possibility of taking his personal belongings, put him on a scheduled flight to brazil. this is unacceptable to us! i am very much against this procedure on behalf of the european parliament. i condemn this incident, which is a violation of human dignity and a disregard for the democratic institution of the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
- thank you very much, mr chichester.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 5 february 2009, pursuant to rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: wednesday:the epp-ed group has asked for the report by mr herbert reul on ways of solving the oil supply challenge to be postponed until the next partsession.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have debated this proposal in committee for a long time, we have taken a decision by a large majority, but there has been a wealth of information and suggestions yesterday and today, which have been made especially because other committees have added more items for discussion. it seems to me that it is sensible not to decide today but to have the opportunity once more to find a solution which parliament can then support. that is why i ask that the postponement be decided today. thank you, sir.
i would like to thank mr swoboda. does anyone wish to speak against the motion?
i am not going to go into detail. you heard the political context. you also heard what mr swoboda said. the decision will be made tomorrow. (parliament adopted the motion for a resolution) we shall vote on mr swoboda's motion tomorrow. i would ask that we remember today's vote. (the agenda is therefore adopted.) further amendments to the agenda: see minutes.
the next item is the statements by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy and the commission on the role of the european union in the middle east. i have the honour to welcome the high commissioner, mr javier solana, and to ask him to speak to us.
high representative for the common foreign and security policy. − mr president, this is the first time that i have appeared before you this year, 2009. it is a great pleasure to be here and i hope that the good cooperation we have had in the past will continue this year. the war in gaza ended a month ago, on 18 january, and i think you would agree with me that it feels like yesterday. the scale of the suffering and destruction was immense and it has left us all with a bitter taste in our mouths. the humanitarian situation today remains heart-breaking. we need to find urgent solutions to get aid in and to reduce the level of suffering of the people. at the same time, we need to do all we can to end the conflict between israelis and palestinians and between israel and the arab world. in fact, the parameters of the solution are well known, and have been known for some time. what matters now is the political will to implement it among israelis and palestinians, among arabs and the wider international community. the european vocation for peace in the middle east remains as strong as ever. our commitment to the creation of a viable and independent palestinian state, living side by side with israel, is total. it is at the heart of our middle east policy. all our actions have this strategic objective in mind. we will give our firm backing to all who want a peaceful solution to the many challenges across the middle east region. this house – parliament – knows just how difficult and how intractable the situation may seem. too often the region has been plagued by cycles of violence, rising extremism and economic hardship. at the same time, the conditions for europeans and americans to work together in the search for peace in the middle east are probably better than ever. i have just returned from washington where i had good discussions with everybody there in the obama administration. i think i have the assurance from them that the strong commitment that has been expressed is a reality. we are willing and ready to work with them towards achieving success in this conflict. i think the appointment of senator mitchell as us envoy has given the people in the middle east and his friends renewed hope. we know him. we have worked with him. i had the privilege of working with him in 2001 on the famous report and just recently, i have had the opportunity to work with him in the region. i hope very much that these changes will lead to a new approach, one that provides the parties with a greater say in how they manage their affairs. we know that solutions and proposals should be locally inspired. but, at the same time, deeper international engagement remains essential. this is why the arab peace initiative is so crucial. this initiative is the collective expression of the arab world on how they could help to end their conflict with israel. it is their response to the issue that has held back their development and their integration into our global world. it remains, and should remain, on the table. we have just had important elections in israel. of course, it is for the israeli people, their political leaders, to decide on the composition of their new government. from our side, we hope that the new prime minister and government will be solid interlocutors for peace talks. needless to say, the same applies to the palestinians. they, too, have to get their house in order, including through reconciliation. as everybody knows, we strongly encourage intra-palestinian reconciliation behind president abbas and all the efforts by egypt and the arab league in that direction. this will be a key to peace, stability and development. as i said, i know that this parliament has been deeply preoccupied with the crisis in gaza, and so have we all. let me use this occasion to highlight some of the most important international efforts, which focused on trying to end the violence and easing the plight of all civilian populations. egypt’s role in resolving the situation in gaza, and indeed with the palestinians themselves, remains crucial. we hope their efforts will soon lead to a durable and sustainable ceasefire, to the opening of the crossings for all goods and persons, and some sort of intra-palestinian agreement. without this, it will be difficult – not to say impossible – to rebuild gaza. we are looking forward to welcoming positive announcements on the ceasefire. the day before yesterday there were good meetings, and let us hope that they will continue today and in the future so that a ceasefire may be called, without delay. as you know, egypt will also host an important conference on reconstruction on 2 march and we expect all the international community to make a commitment there. the european union, too, played its role. we immediately expressed our willingness to contribute in concrete ways to a durable ceasefire. we also stated our readiness to re-dispatch our monitors to the rafah crossing-point, in accordance with the agreement that we signed in 2005. we are ready to operate at rafah, or at any other crossing-points where help is needed or requested. several european countries also expressed their readiness to help the interdiction of illegal trafficking, in particular arms smuggling, into gaza. the activities of the european parliament in response to the crisis have been significant and are part and parcel of the european union’s overall reaction to the crisis. as far as the united nations is concerned, we can warmly commend unrwa for its work and perseverance and underline that the european union will continue to support all its efforts. but it is clear that no single country or organisation can tackle the conflicts in the middle east alone. the very nature of the difficulties demands multilateral solutions. the quartet will have a crucial role to play in the months ahead. the new us administration, in cooperation with us, has confirmed its intention to make full use of the quartet. the terrible events in gaza should also force us to take a more strategic and long-term look at gaza. the gaza strip constitutes an integral part of the palestinian territory occupied in 1967 and, without any doubt, will be part of a palestinian state. gaza needs to become economically and politically viable. gaza needs to become part of a political solution. the immediate priority remains to secure a durable and fully respected ceasefire and to allow for the unimpeded delivery of humanitarian aid. we need to see the opening of the crossings for humanitarian assistance, for commercial goods and for people, on a regular and predictable basis. as you know, the diplomatic fall-out of the gaza conflict in the wider region has been very significant: indirect talks between syria and israel have been suspended; mauritania and qatar have suspended ties with israel; a withdrawal of the arab peace initiative was threatened. arab divisions, as you know, have deepened. without arab unity it will be very difficult to make progress in gaza and in the wider middle east peace process. peace in the middle east requires a united arab world. the upcoming arab league summit will be crucial to restore arab unity, in particular behind the arab peace initiative. in the coming months, we will also have elections in iran and in lebanon. on 12 june, the iranians will vote for a new president. we have repeatedly stated our deep respect for iran and our desire to forge a completely different kind of relationship with this country. this is clearly in everyone’s interests. but to achieve that, we need trust and that trust must be restored. let me conclude by saying that 2009 will be critical for the middle east. we are possibly at a threshold. we can choose to pursue the same policies in the same manner, knowing that they will lead to the same results – the results that we know today. on the other hand, we can try to work with energy, with determination, to adjust our policies, to adjust the way we set about achieving results. we have to work on both crisis management and conflict resolution – there is no doubt about that. however, the time has come to focus decisively on conflict resolution. it is the only way to end this endless sequence of death and destruction. (applause)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: i can inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that next sunday i will be travelling to gaza, ramallah, sderot and jerusalem for two and a half days in my capacity as president of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, with a delegation i am leading. the talks are scheduled to take place in jerusalem with president peres and prime minister olmert and in ramallah with palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas and prime minister fayyad. in gaza, the visit is being prepared and carried out by the united nations.
member of the commission. − mr president, we are at a moment of transition in the middle east. soon, most probably, there will be a new israeli government. there is already a new us administration, currently defining its foreign policy priorities. and we may soon face transition in the occupied palestinian territory. so changing dynamics can create opportunities for new engagement. but there is no denying that the recent conflict resulted in enormous human suffering and destruction. it has left the middle east peace process – we have to confess – in a particularly fragile state. this house knows that only too well, and i refer to the discussions and debates that we have already had here. this is clearly not where we wanted to be at the beginning of 2009. but if there is, some day, to be peace between the israelis and the palestinians, the only way forward is to do all we can to get the talks back on track. this human tragedy in gaza has had a huge impact on the region. i returned only last night from a trip to syria and lebanon, and i will certainly also say something about that. but in particular, let me say that what we need to do is to make clear to all israeli leaders that the eu expects sustained commitment to the peace process and to the two-state solution. we also need to reinforce the message to the palestinians that a strong palestinian authority with effective leadership over the entire occupied palestinian territory is essential both for the reunification of the west bank and gaza and to get the peace process back on track. that is why the european union is supporting the efforts of egypt, turkey and others to achieve this. with the new us administration, we need to agree a joint way forward. i spoke on the phone to secretary clinton to that end only last week. she agreed on the need for a lasting ceasefire and a return to the peace process, which is absolutely crucial. we also agreed that the quartet should consult closely on these matters before the end of the month. i am glad that the american administration sees the quartet as a very important institution for going forward on peace. finally, we need to step up our own engagement with the arab league countries. the consensus for peace is weakening, not only in israel and within the occupied palestinian territory, but also within the arab league, where worrying divisions are appearing. to that end, as i just said, i have just returned from syria and lebanon, where i met president assad in syria, president sleiman in lebanon, and other key partners. the recent conflict has badly damaged negotiations not only on the palestinian, but also on the syrian, track. we therefore exchanged views on the peace process at length. i reiterated the very strong support of the european union for the arab peace initiative, and i urged partners to maintain their commitment to it, because it offers a serious framework for regional peace talks. i also stressed the milestone decision taken by syria and lebanon to establish diplomatic relations, and pushed for completion of all steps in this process. in both countries we discussed practical ways in which the european union could support the process of reform. in lebanon i reiterated our readiness in principle to deploy an eu election observation mission, and i have already decided that an exploratory mission should go there immediately. the european union as a whole has been extremely active in recent weeks both on the political and practical fronts. on the political front, since i last reported to you in january, we have all pursued our intensive diplomatic activity. we have been at the forefront of calls for a ceasefire and have worked with egypt and others to make a lasting ceasefire possible. the council conclusions in january indicated that the eu is developing a ‘work plan’ for a lasting ceasefire. this document identifies six areas for action including humanitarian response, the prevention of smuggling to gaza, the re-opening of the gaza crossing points, reconstruction, intra-palestinian reconciliation and the resumption of the peace process. much very delicate work is going on. to give but a flavour of the pace of activity we have all been involved in: for instance, i was at a working dinner of the paris co-chairs on 15 january, the summit meetings in sharm el sheikh and jerusalem on 18 january, and eu ministerial meetings with israel on 21 january and with a group composed of egypt, the palestinian authority, jordan and turkey on 25 january. in addition, commissioner louis michel, who is responsible for humanitarian aid, visited gaza on 24 and 25 january. we are in regular contact with quartet colleagues. we had important meetings as a troika in moscow. i had this telephone conversation with clinton; javier solana was there in washington, and we are agreed on the need to renew the peace process. we continue our road map monitoring work, and we also deploy state-building assistance, including in sensitive areas such as the rule of law and border management. the eu’s action strategy for the middle east also foresees eu support for specific final status issues, for instance for jerusalem, refugees and security arrangements. in practical terms, the eu has prioritised delivery of humanitarian assistance to the people of gaza. the commission has already mobilised eur 10 million practically overnight, and another eur 32 million has now been committed for the coming period. in early march, the egyptian government is organising an international conference in sharm el sheikh in support of the palestinian economy for the reconstruction of gaza. we, as the commission, will be a co-sponsor of this event. i am delighted that i had the opportunity to discuss the pledge that the commission intends to make with the chairs of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on budgets at an early stage here in parliament on 2 february. thank you again for your support. the problem at the moment is not only funding, but access, particularly to gaza. we have been very vocal, both in public and in private, about the unacceptable closure of the gaza crossings. this house will wish to join me today in calling, once again, for the crossings to be fully opened. (applause) when access does improve – as i have no doubt it will – we may then have to review our financial forecast. at that point i may need to come back to discuss this with you. i hope i will again be able to count on your support. honourable members, you can count on the commitment of the commission – and also on my personal commitment – to do everything in our power to help bring peace as swiftly as possible to one of the most troubled parts of the world. we will certainly continue to work very closely with this house. (applause)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. thank you very much, mr president, ladies and gentlemen. the message of our debate can only be one: there is no violent solution in the middle east! there is no military solution! there is no solution to the problem of terrorism! it may be that you get a short-term military advantage, it may be that an act of terrorism creates great confusion, but every violence, as we've seen, creates more violence and turns the spiral of violence further. that is why dialogue is the key point. and dialogue in the middle east is extremely difficult, especially in a time of uncertainty and sometimes of unevenness. we are dealing with a hope in the united states of america. barack obama, hillary clinton and their team have a consensus and dialogue-oriented approach and are therefore completely different from the previous government, which was elected, thank god. so there's hope in washington. but what about jerusalem? certainly what benjamin netanyahu said in the election campaign is a risk to the peace process, and certainly avigor liebermann is a danger to the peace process in the middle east. this lack of synchronicity is a risk. what is happening in lebanon? what influence does hezbollah have in the future? how far is it prepared to engage in constructive dialogue in lebanon before and after the elections? what about the western-oriented majority? is she capable of running the country after an election victory with hezbollah's integration? is hezbollah ready to integrate? the question of the future of the community is not a question of the future of the community. the question of the outcome of the elections in iran is of central importance. i am also in favour of the hamas position. the question of whether we will have a radical president who denies israel's right to exist - as the incumbent president does - or whether we will have a government that is willing to engage in dialogue and that will extend that willingness from tehran to beirut to rafah is a crucial question for the stabilization of the entire region. we are in favour of a palestinian unity government. the peace process cannot be managed without a palestinian unity government. it is therefore up to hamas to show now whether it is ready and able to come to such a form of government. the basic condition for this is that we talk to hamas, that those who want to talk to hamas in the palestinian people are supported and that they are not pushed into the defensive by a government in jerusalem which only knows of a policy of continuing the settlements. i would like to say that the commission is aware of the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. everything in the middle east is connected to everything. we cannot take individual parts out and think that we can solve a single problem by military action. the basic prerequisite for everything is therefore a willingness to dialogue. the arab league's plan, the peace plan of saudi arabia, envisages the renunciation of violence while recognizing israel's right to exist - what an ambitious and courageous plan! we need to talk about this! it is a progress that there are people in the arab league, in the arab camp, who are willing to have such a debate. they need to be strengthened. you can't make them stronger with bombers. the european union's work is not strengthened by destroying what we are building for military reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr javier solana, you said that you were here for the first time this year, and that you might be here for the last time this election year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's work deserves more than respect, it deserves a great deal of admiration, above all for its constant advocacy of dialogue. for that, our great appreciation. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, mr schulz. we hope, of course, that everyone will join in the thanks, and that javier solana will come to visit us a few more times before the end of the election period.
the other colleagues have also overstepped a little, and you have to give everyone the same right.
high representative for the cfsp. - mr president, in the short time available to me i will not be able to answer all the speakers who have spoken in this control session one by one. let me say that i appreciate from the bottom of my heart the words you have expressed about me and what i do. i would just like to say that you can be sure that i will continue to work with the same commitment and, if necessary, with more, because the situation is becoming more difficult every day. i think there are five issues from which a consensus could be drawn among all those who have preceded me in the use of the word. the first is humanitarian issues. the most pressing, the most important issue is undoubtedly the humanitarian issue. the violence of these days, of these weeks, has brought to light the enormous need to alleviate the suffering of the population, in particular the citizens of gaza. we will therefore do everything we can to alleviate the great hardships of daily life in gaza. the commission will do so without any doubt, the member states of the council will do so, the international community as a whole will do so. secondly, it is absolutely essential that the crossing points between gaza and israel and between gaza and egypt should be opened. and they have to be opened immediately and quickly, from our point of view; all assistance will be provided wherever we are called upon, and in particular in the rafah matter we will be ready to deploy as soon as possible. the european union observers are already there, available, so that when the raffa crossing is opened we are ready to deploy. thirdly, the very important issue of palestinian unity. i think it is clear that there will be no solution at this point in time without a principle of intra-palestinian reconciliation. the european union therefore, as stated in the resolution of the last general affairs council, supports and will support the efforts being made, whether by president abbas or by president mubarak, to advance intra-palestinian reconciliation. many speakers have mentioned the obligations we may assume in the context of a new palestinian consensus government. it seems to me, ladies and gentlemen - and i speak on my own behalf - that if there is an intra-palestinian consensus government, a government that aims at two states, a government that aims at building those two states by peaceful means, a government that has a reconstruction programme in gaza and a government that is trying to build an electoral process in 2009, i think that is a government that the european union should support. fourthly, the question of israel, two important issues after the elections. firstly, the government that has emerged from the elections or that will emerge from the majority that has emerged from the elections has the obligation, from our point of view, to continue a peace process, and in that line we will work, to do everything possible so that whatever government emerges from these elections in israel, it is a government that consolidates, works, contributes to the continuation of a peace process and does everything possible so that it can be completed, in order to be, during the year 2009. fifthly, the question of settlements is absolutely fundamental to us. the latest data that has been published by the israeli government itself regarding the state of the settlements in the year 2008, i think should call us all to a sense of responsibility. i would like to tell you that in 2001, i worked with then senator mitchell on the famous report that bears his name; i was one of four people who worked on that program. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to read that report again: in that report, in 2001, things were said that, unfortunately, still need to be said today, for example on the subject of settlements. if we are not able, in the european union, to try to change the way in which settlements continue to develop, it will be difficult to believe in any start to the peace process. so, seriousness on that issue, serious talk with our friends in israel so that the issue of settlements is treated radically differently. finally, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, the arab league. unity among the arab countries is essential. it is essential that we cooperate with all the countries of the arab league in order to keep the peace initiative signed by the arab league in force. it is essential that this peace process ends with a reconciliation between palestinians and israelis, but also with a reconciliation between arabs and israel. we therefore wholeheartedly support those who are working to make the peace initiative a reality. we see deep divisions within the arab league; we must do everything we can diplomatically to prevent these differences from deepening and, on the contrary, to restore a process of harmony and cooperation within the arab family. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2009 is going to be, as i have said, a very important year. we will have to continue to do crisis management, bring humanitarian aid, do everything possible to have a ceasefire, do everything possible to have transits between israel and gaza and between egypt and gaza, but, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not change our mindset from a crisis management position to a profound conflict resolution position, we will be in the same situation that unfortunately we were in at the beginning of 2009. may 2009 finally, mr president, with the cooperation of all, be the year in which we can really resolve this huge conflict that has unfortunately been weighing on our shoulders for far too long.
member of the commission. − mr president, i just wanted to say again that last year we clearly said that failure is not an option. we were all hopeful for the annapolis process and we were hopeful for a peace process. unfortunately, the military incursion into gaza after the rockets launched from gaza into israel have changed the equation. now we all know that there is a series of elements that is absolutely necessary so that we can come back to peace agreements. but in any case, one thing is sure: a military solution is no solution; on this i agree with all of you. therefore, whatever the cost, we will all have to work in order to bring about peace. many actors are there: in the european union, in the international community – be it the united states of america, the un or russia – but there are also many arab friends and colleagues. i can only hope that, when a new israeli government is in place, all those actors will want to come together for peace. our rationale is clear, but whether the emotions will then bring us to the right path, we will have to see. be assured that we will work for that. (applause)
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have been asked to welcome a group of visitors from the piedmont region to the gallery. normally we only welcome delegations from states, but exceptionally - since we want to strengthen the regions - we also warmly welcome the delegation from piedmont!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the proposal for a regulation (com (91) 0183 - c4-0414/91) by mr ferrero-waldner, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the common organization of the market in bananas; this report should be an opportunity to reflect on the progress of the european union's security and defence policy, where we are and what contribution the european parliament is making to it. we must note that there have been 22 operations under the european security and defence policy so far, 16 of which were civilian operations and only 6 were military operations. that means there's a very strong civilian weight here. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union's civilian operations are properly monitored and that the european union's civilian operations are properly monitored. the european union budget also finances other things directly related to security policy. examples include: security research eur 1.3 billion over 7 years; galileo, which we say also has security aspects eur 3.4 billion; the european commission has already announced that it will be launching a pilot project to study the effects of the greenhouse gas emissions from the use of fossil fuels. we also have, and this is new, legislation in the european parliament in the field of security and defence. we have adopted a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the intra-community movement of arms and on tenders in the field of security and defence. this is an important first step on that road. the information for the european parliament is particularly important. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the high commissioner and his staff for the good cooperation that has developed here. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report calls for the european union to define its own security interests more clearly. we are talking about the security interests of individual nations, but we have common european security interests. the protection of citizens at home and abroad, peace in our neighbourhood, the protection of external borders, the protection of critical infrastructure, the security of energy supplies, the security of our trade routes, the security of our assets in space and many other things which are in fact the european union's own security interests and common security interests. we must also consider what the european union's ambitions are in the field of security and defence. the draft report makes it very clear that we have no ambition to become a superpower like the united states. it also means that we must clearly focus on the geographical environment of the european union. the balkans - the european union's homework - north africa, the frozen conflicts in the east and our contribution to the solution of the conflict in palestine are priorities. we must be very clear about our emphasis here. i would like to say that at the end of the french presidency the council set itself very ambitious objectives: you want to be able to do certain operations in parallel. if we want to do that, we must also provide the means. this includes the establishment of an autonomous and permanent headquarters in brussels. this is the first very clear demand of the european parliament. there was a very large majority in the committee in favour. secondly, we must bear in mind that the 27 member states have two million soldiers at their disposal. of this, 3% should be made available to the european union on a permanent basis. that would be 60,000 soldiers. that is why we are calling for the eurocorps to be permanently subordinated to the european union. this appeal is addressed to the six member states which carry the eurocorps. then we make clear statements about the skills we need to develop. the 27 member states of the european union spend 200 billion euros a year on defence, and these 200 billion euros must be spent better than in the past. we cannot afford to reinvent the wheel 27 times, and that is why we are appealing to you today to ensure that in future the european union and taxpayer money will be spent together on defence better than it has been in the past. thank you, thank you.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the council is not, but parliament - and consequently the commission - is slowly coming to the end of this parliamentary term. i think it is therefore useful to look at the development of european security and defence policy not just as an accountant, but in a more fundamental way. i confess i'm torn between two ways of looking at it. i am very concerned about the daily needs of the people, when a mission is threatened with failure because six helicopters are missing, when there is no political will in the capitals or when there is fragmentation in technological projects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european security and defence policy has only been in existence for about ten years, the document on the security strategy since 2003. in this respect, the progress made from a historical perspective is certainly very great. as a historical optimist, i would also choose this perspective in case of doubt. the second point i would like to make as a social democrat concerns something for which neither the european union nor nato is responsible, but which concerns us all as europeans. it concerns developments in the missile defence system in poland and the czech republic. we social democrats are very pleased to note that the things we have proposed are now being implemented in the context of the changes in the united states. we have always said that a hasty decision to deploy is pointless because at this point there is no threat from, for example, iran. hillary clinton said last week that further decisions on the american side would be made depending on developments in iran. joe biden has put this in terms of technical capabilities and financial considerations. these are things we welcome. we will not be the last lost lot to wave the flag of this missile defense system.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is true that in recent years there has been a rapid development in european security and foreign policy. but we also have to see that there is a rapid evolution and change in the question of threats and crises of all kinds. my group is against praising one's own work. that is why i am not prepared to make a fuss about the reports before us. mr saryusz-wolski has put forward a good report, which we will also support. however, the strategic dilemma is becoming clear. i agree with you, mr solana, that it is. you have just said: 'european cooperation at the strategic level must be strengthened'. but what we must seek and find above all is a common european strategy in foreign and security policy, which does not yet exist. i say this because we are in a historical situation. the reports before us - the vatanen report in particular - on nato are lagging behind even the new us administration. mr vatanen refused to include the question of nuclear disarmament in his report, which we shall put to the vote again tomorrow. yeah, what are we talking about? i come now to the report by mr von wogau. there's talk of a new concept called safe. it is a nice play on words, but there is no such concept. and we don't see why we should agree now if this concept is not on the table at all. mr von wogau refused to speak in his report on human security. my group insists that we clearly define this objective in international politics as the european union. he refused to allow us to discuss the peace building partnership or the further development of a civilian peace corps. that is why i say that this report is absolutely inadequate if we assume that europe must act now, in the coming months, starting today - and this became clear at the munich security conference. there's a window of time since the election in the united states. i don't know how long it's gonna be open. we must now formulate our strategic interests as europeans and bring them into the alliance, into nato, and also define our definitions of security, as mrs ferrero-waldner has said, with regard to russia. because otherwise, in a few months' time, the us government will be more advanced than the european union, and decisive security strategic positions will be decided in bilateral discussions with russia, without european strength - political strength, conflict prevention strength - being able to contribute to this new stabilisation of transatlantic security policy. so my appeal, not just to us, is to really put the old categories of cold war and one-sided positions behind us, to move forward. the european union has an obligation to its citizens to help formulate a security partnership that brings peace, not the other way around.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the reports by mr wogau and mr vatanen are clear and unambiguous and they are pushing the militarization of the european union further. the reports call for the eu to become a de facto military power. the wogau report on the european security strategy calls for an 'integrated european armed force'. we think that's wrong. the commission is also proposing to set up a european defence agency. the wogau report is the one that gives ex post facto support to the completely overpriced eurofighter programme. the report also stresses that the lisbon treaty is crucial, as it will "bring important innovations in the field of the esdp". this is one of the main reasons why we are against the lisbon treaty. the vatanen report calls for permanent structures of cooperation between the eu and nato. we think that's wrong. the eu's new military missions are problematic. nato is not a peace alliance, no, nato is waging wars. it was against yugoslavia, now it's afghanistan. what will the next wars be? nato is about war policy. the report calls nato the core of european security. no, it means insecurity! the eu and nato are highly problematic, especially when it comes to the two strategies. we in the gue/ngl group are in favour of a civil european union and we are against nato. the dissolution of nato is necessary. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i'm calling for protests from this room against this nato summit. 60 years of nato is 60 years too long. we have, as a group, voted in the minority on the reports by mr wogau and mr vatanen, and my colleagues will point out what is particularly problematic about russia. we are still opposed to the missile system and we are opposed to the language used in this report with regard to cyprus. that is why we shall vote against these reports.
high representative for the cfsp. mr president, in the shortest possible time, since the contributions of the various speakers have been, broadly speaking, in the same direction, let me mention three or four points which come to mind after having heard the speeches. the first is about resources and means. the rapporteurs in the various reports have said that it is true that we have resource problems and means problems, and that a better use of national resources could be a good direction in which we should move. but i would also like to say that we have some means at our disposal which we do not use fully and i would like to make that clear to you here. i think that the fact that we have the european defence agency, without having to have applied or approved the treaty of lisbon, by an agreement of the european council, was a good idea. i believe that the agency can do a great job in coordinating national policies, so that the added value of all the policies that are made can be greater. somebody said something about helicopters. the helicopter is needed for all missions - civilian missions, military missions, all kinds of missions, transport - the helicopter has become a fundamental working instrument for crisis management today. coordinating better what we have, not just in hardware, but making better use of the software for helicopters, would allow us to use them better and actually have more of them than we have in use on a day-to-day basis. i would also like to say that in the last few weeks, there has been a lot of progress in our strategic relationship with the united states and in our strategic relationship with russia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that our relations with the united states, from the strategic standpoint of the years ahead, and with russia, both in munich and later with the commissioner, when we were in moscow talking and discussing with the russian leaders the fundamental issue of new ideas on european security, a subject which will be on the table in the coming years and months. europe does not want to be a military power. i believe that europe, the european union, is a civil power with military means, which is very different from a military power, and i think that should remain so. that work and all the documents we produce, whether by parliament or the commission or myself, are work in that direction. a few words about the police in the palestinian territories, a subject which we dealt with in the previous session. eupol is one of the most important assets we have in terms of credibility and work in the field of security with the palestinians and in the occupied territories, and it will continue to be an important asset of the european community, recognised by everyone: by the palestinians, by the israelis, by the countries of the region. so whatever we can do to keep working in that direction, rest assured we will do.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to thank the three rapporteurs and make a few comments on a few aspects. but above all, i want to say that 60 years of nato for my generation means 60 years of peace and freedom. i think we should put that on record. if we succeed now, in a time when we are returning to more multilateralism, in strengthening the european union in foreign, security and defence policy - as high commissioner javier solana has just said - that is, if in such an environment of multilateralism we can bring our ideas of preventive measures and soft power more strongly into a common transatlantic strategy, then we have a good future ahead of us. if at the same time i see france rejoining military integration, then the european position will be strengthened. the munich security conference has shown that, following the statements made by prime minister tusk, chancellor merkel and president sarkozy - in the presence of us vice-president biden - there has been virtually no objection to a european corps in nato. it was a sensational discovery for me, that there was no outcry from the american people. in the transatlantic relationship we can also develop more common positions in the military field, so that these can be presented in a credible manner within nato. so we should use our notions of military capability, with a focus on soft power and prevention, to tackle a new agenda that was made clear in munich, but actually existed before. because with the policies of president obama, it is possible that we will enter a new era of disarmament negotiations. we europeans can play a role here with start, with the npt, which must be renegotiated, but above all with the csce treaty, which is of great importance in europe in particular, since there are also certain problems with russia. if all this is taken into account, including the missile shield, we have a new and better chance of pursuing a common transatlantic policy, with america as an ally and russia as a strategic partner, a policy in the european interest for peace. we can only seize this opportunity if we ourselves become stronger and more influential, and that is why the direction of this policy is right.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i want to comment on a few points. first of all, why did i not include the principles of 'human security' and 'responsibility to protect' in my report? it was very controversial. i personally think that these are very important concepts that have been developed, but that they are not good for security policy because they can be misused to justify military intervention in all parts of the world. that is a danger i see clearly. that is why i am in favour of both of these concepts, but not for security policy. then i was told that i was going to be present and that i would be using the report to call for the creation of a european army. i would ask you to read the whole report again. you will not find the word 'european army' in this report. what this report says is that taxpayers' money should be spent in this area better than it has been so far. then we have the security strategy which is now supported by all. the work required for this took several years and was very successful. i believe that the next step must be a work on the implementation of security policy, a white paper on security policy. that is a task for the next parliamentary term. last but not least, i believe that the next discussions we have to have on this subject will have to deal with the question of eubam rafah, how this mission can be revived and how it could possibly be extended.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the union for the mediterranean was intended to give a new impetus to the barcelona process, which was launched in 1995. unfortunately, we have to say that the project is now on hold due to the recent crisis in the middle east. the opening of the secretariat in barcelona has been postponed indefinitely, and the funds promised cannot be channelled. so concrete results have not yet been achieved, which i regret very much. i wonder if we have focused too much on institutions and if this is the reason for the current impasse. we have not yet reached the stage where we can say that the european union is not a political union. how can we ensure the continuation of the projects? in the history of european integration we have been very successful in the field of economy and trade. that is why we in the committee on international trade have been thinking about how our successful mechanisms could be transferred to our neighbours in the south of europe. one goal is to establish a free trade area by 2010. it's stuck here too. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. international trade could have a positive impact not only on the economic, but also - and above all - on the political and social situation of the region. regional economic integration is of central importance. our neighbours to the south must also cooperate more closely with each other. at the same time, countries which have already established a network of bilateral trade relations should be convinced of the added value of a multilateral dimension. communication of the benefits of economic integration to local citizens plays an important role. this would be a step towards stabilizing the situation south of the mediterranean. i wish that for all of us, and especially for the citizens of the region!
mr president, i received some strange news from northern ireland last week. it was that mr sammy wilson, the environment minister in the regional government, banned a uk information campaign organised by the uk government on energy efficiency. i cannot believe that the good reasons behind our common climate and energy targets – 20% less co2, 20% renewables and 20% more energy efficiency – are not accepted in the regional government of a member state. i am therefore asking the commission to find out what the reasons are behind this strange and quite bizarre ban in northern ireland. i think even a climate sceptic like mr wilson should take care of citizens and support energy efficiency and efforts to decrease the energy bill.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr szymański, for his excellent report. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument can only be an effective instrument if it provides incentives for democratic reforms and promotes sustainable development, i.e. ecological and equitable development. in order to monitor the effectiveness of this instrument, clear, concrete and measurable objectives must be defined for all action plans under the european neighbourhood policy. we greens call in particular for consistency in all human rights instruments in the framework of the enp action plans and for a thorough examination of the so-called justice projects supported by the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. another important point, which the report rightly emphasises, is the need to involve civil society more closely in the design and monitoring of the enpi. the georgian war in the summer of 2008 demonstrated that the european union had not developed and implemented a sustainable conflict management policy in the caucasus region. the so-called frozen conflicts, such as in nagorno-karabakh, continue to represent an obstacle to the further development of the european neighbourhood policy in the south caucasus region. we therefore call on the council to take a more active role in the conflict management process. the european union has the opportunity to play an active role in its neighbourhood through this instrument, in order to promote democratic reforms and sustainable development. the european union must finally start taking the democracy and human rights clauses in its agreements with third countries seriously and draw consequences, ideally positive and, if necessary, negative, in order to preserve its - that is, our - credibility.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i must say that i was a little surprised to see the berman report being prepared and a proposal being tabled before the actual report, which is to assess the experience of the dci, namely the report by mr mitchell. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. because the dci is designed the way it is designed, the control gap was preprogrammed. i support the conclusion that another instrument is needed to close the gap for non-oda eligible activities. i can imagine the two alternatives he proposes in paragraph 3. i would like to make it clear that the development of a country also takes place outside oda. the only legal basis at issue is the one which has been chosen. i think that the rapporteur and his committee are up against the rest of the world. the development committee takes a narrow interpretation of article 179 and must therefore rely on articles intended for internal policies as a legal basis. the committee on foreign affairs, the legal affairs committee, the legal service of the parliament, the court of justice, the council and the commission have a different interpretation of article 179. we therefore, as the epp-ed group, have decided today not to withdraw this motion tomorrow but to table an amendment which will amend the legal basis envisaged. we will not agree to the postponement either, because we agree on the matter that it is only a question of the legal basis. so we shall probably have a clearer picture of the matter by tomorrow.
in writing. the review of the new external financing instruments has revealed gaps in cooperation with third countries. we therefore propose to restructure the industrial instrument. the committee on foreign affairs did not consider it useful to limit the new legal basis of the instrument to a few areas of cooperation. the policy areas now envisaged (culture, youth, research) are also borrowed from european internal policy and were not previously intended to define cooperation with third countries. this is just one of the uncertainties that afet fears. what if, for example, it makes sense to work with other countries on climate policy in the near future? we have to create a new legal basis for the instrument every time? do we want to do this every time the area of cooperation changes? we all wanted to reform the instruments of foreign policy. so let it be clear, we are not fighting each other. this is the only reason why the greens, together with the second rapporteur from afet, withdrew the amendment on monday. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new proposal. but this report is merely a recommendation to the commission. we'll see how she handles it.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. madam president, commissioner kovács, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs kovacs, it is regrettable that we can only vote on the commission's proposal here in parliament and not on the actual report by our colleague. we would have very much liked to have approved this report in its original form and we would like to thank the rapporteur. but it was rejected by the majority of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the decisive vote was "no" by conservatives and liberals. after the defeat of individual votes, they were not prepared to accept a report at all. we are extremely sorry about this. we have a lot to gain from the commission's draft directive on this. we particularly welcome the commission's positive assessment of the results of the copenhagen study it commissioned. the study proposes to maintain and even extend reduced vat rates to services and other activities. this will help to secure jobs, especially in small and micro-enterprises, and to convert entire sectors of the economy from the informal sector to a regulated economic activity. this stabilisation is of great importance in the current crisis. it will also secure and hopefully create jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as we know, vat is an indirect tax which mainly affects wage earners and those on low incomes. the tax burden is higher for those who earn well and very well. in recent years, they have been irresponsibly relieved of their responsibilities in all european countries. the commission proposal is intended to be an open-ended scheme. that is also welcome. we are getting out of the unfortunate situation that we have to deal with every few years with a deadline extension for reduced rates. this creates legal certainty for providers. as a german member of parliament, i am particularly pleased that the german government has finally abandoned its blockade of a permanent arrangement. this is a positive aspect of the grand coalition in the federal republic of germany. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the supply of alcoholic beverages are respected. the high vat rates in this sector are known to serve primarily to protect public health. that is why the member states should be given a free hand here too. thank you, thank you.
mr president of the czech republic, allow me to welcome you to the european parliament.
president of the czech republic. - i would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to address the european parliament, one of the key institutions of the european union. i have been here several times, but i have never had the opportunity to speak in plenary. that's why i appreciate the opportunity today. elected representatives from 27 countries with a very diverse range of political views and attitudes are a unique audience, as has been the unique and essentially revolutionary experiment of the european union itself for more than half a century, with its attempt to make european decision-making better by shifting a significant part of it from individual states to pan-european institutions. i come to you from the capital of the czech republic, prague, the historic centre of the czech state, one of the important places in the development of european thought, european culture and european civilisation. i come to you as the representative of the czech state, which in its various forms has always been part of european history, a state which has often directly and significantly participated in its formation and which wants to participate in it today. the last time the czech president spoke to you from this place was nine years ago. it was my predecessor in office, vaclav havel, and it was four years before we joined the european union. a few weeks ago, the czech prime minister, mirek topolánek, also spoke here, this time as the prime minister of the country holding the presidency of the council of the european union. in his speech, he focused on specific topics based on the priorities of the czech presidency as well as on current problems facing the countries of the european union. this allows me to come to you with topics that are a degree of generality above, to talk about things that may not seem as dramatic as the ways to solve today's economic crisis, like the russian-ukrainian gas conflict or the situation in gaza. but in my view, they are of vital importance for the development of the european integration project. in less than three months' time, the czech republic will be commemorating the fifth anniversary of its accession to the union, and it will do so with dignity. it will be remembered as a country in which, unlike some of the other new member states, there is no sense of disappointment at the unfulfilled expectations associated with our membership. it's no surprise, and it has a rational interpretation. our expectations were realistic. we knew very well that we were entering a community created and shaped by people, not some ideal construct built without authentic human interests, visions, opinions, ideas. in the european union, interests and ideas are everywhere, and there is no other way. on the one hand, we interpreted the accession to the union as an external confirmation that we had become a standard european country again rather quickly, within less than 15 years of the fall of communism. on the other hand, we have seen and still see the opportunity to play an active part in the european integration process as an opportunity to take advantage of an already highly integrated europe and at the same time to shape it as we see fit. we feel our share of responsibility for developments in the european union and it is with this awareness that we approach our presidency of the council of the european union. i am convinced that the first six weeks of our presidency will be a convincing demonstration of our responsible approach. i would like to reiterate very clearly and loudly, for those of you who either do not know or do not want to know, that joining the european union was not and is not an alternative for us and that there is no relevant political force in our country that could or would want to challenge this statement. that is why we are disturbed by the recent intensification and multiplication of attacks on us, which are based on the unfounded assumption that the czechs are looking for an integration grouping other than the one they joined five years ago. it's not like that. the citizens of the czech republic consider that european integration has a necessary and important mission, which they understand in the following way, in a certain generalization. it is, firstly, the removal of unnecessary and counterproductive barriers to the movement of people, goods and services, ideas, political philosophies, worldviews, cultural schemes, behavioural patterns, which have been formed between individual european states throughout history for various reasons, and, secondly, the common care of public goods belonging to the continent, that is, projects which cannot be effectively implemented on the basis of bilateral negotiations between two or more neighbouring european countries. the effort to achieve these two objectives - removing barriers and making rational choices on a continental level - is not, and never will be, over. various barriers and obstacles persist and decision-making at the brussels level is certainly more than optimal. there is certainly more of it than the people living in individual european countries demand. you are aware of this, ladies and gentlemen, and i am sure the honourable member is aware of it too. i therefore ask you, more as a question of rhetoric, whether you are sure that every time you vote you are deciding on matters which must be decided in this very chamber and not closer to the citizen, that is, within the individual european states. some other possible effects of european integration are also mentioned in the politically correct rhetoric of the present day, but these are rather secondary and substitutive. moreover, they are the ambitions of professional politicians and those associated with them rather than the interests of ordinary citizens of the member states. when i said that for us, membership of the european union had no alternative and does not have - and i would like to emphasise this very much - that is only half of what needs to be said. the second half is the quite logical assertion that the methods and forms of european integration have, on the contrary, a number of possible and legitimate variants, just as they have been throughout the last half-century. the story doesn't end. to regard the status quo, that is to say the institutional set-up of the european union as it exists today, as a dogma that cannot be criticised forever is an error that is unfortunately spreading more and more, although it is in total contradiction both with rational reasoning and with the whole of the more than two thousand years of history of the development of european civilization. the same error is the a priori postulation, and therefore equally uncritical, of the only possible and correct future development of the european union, which is an ever-closer union, or a process of ever-deeper political integration of the member states. neither the status quo nor the postulate of the unquestionable benefit of continuing deepening of integration for any european democrat is or should be unquestionable. it is not acceptable that they should be imposed by those who consider themselves, in the words of the famous czech writer milan kundera, to be 'the holders of the keys' to european integration. moreover, it is clear that the institutional set-up of the european union is not an end in itself but a means to real ends. these are nothing less than human freedom and an economic system that brings prosperity. that's what a market economy is. this is certainly the wish of citizens in all member countries, but over the 20 years since the fall of communism, i have repeatedly found that it is more strongly desired and feared by those who have lived in the grip of unfreedom for much of the 20th century and have struggled with a dysfunctional centrally planned, state-organized economy. these people are naturally more sensitive and receptive to any phenomena and tendencies that go elsewhere than towards freedom and prosperity. this includes citizens of the czech republic. the current decision-making system in the european union is different from the tried and tested, classic parliamentary democracy. in the usual parliamentary system, there is a part of the government and an opposition, but that, if i am not mistaken, is not the case in the european parliament. there is only one alternative and anyone who thinks of another is considered an opponent of european integration. in our part of europe, we lived until recently in a political system where any alternative was unacceptable and where there was therefore no parliamentary opposition. we have learned the hard way that where there is no opposition, freedom is lost. there must therefore be political alternatives. and not just that. the relationship between a citizen of a member state and a representative of the union is not the standard relationship between a voter and the politician representing him. moreover, the distance between citizens and representatives of the union is not only geographical but also much greater than that between individual member states. it's called by various terms: democratic deficit, loss of democratic accountability, decision-making not elected but elected, bureaucratization of decision-making, etc. the proposals to change the present situation contained in the rejected european constitution or in the treaty of lisbon, which is in fact little different from it, would further exacerbate this defect. in the absence of a european demos, that is, a european people, neither the strengthening of the role of the european parliament nor the possible strengthening of its role can solve this defect. this would, on the contrary, exacerbate the problem and lead to an even greater feeling of alienation from the union's organisations among the citizens of the member states. the solution is neither to melt down under the 'melting pot' of the current type of european integration, nor to suppress the role of the member states under the slogan of a new multicultural and multinational european civil society. these are attempts that have failed in the past because they were not a manifestation of natural historical development. i am afraid that attempts to further accelerate and deepen integration and to shift decisions on the living conditions of the citizens of the member states increasingly to the european level may have the effect of jeopardising all the positive achievements of the last half-century in europe. let us not therefore underestimate the concern of the citizens of many member states that their affairs are once again being decided elsewhere and without them, and that their ability to influence this decision-making is very limited. the european union's success so far has been due, among other things, to the fact that the opinion and voice of each member country has had equal weight in the voting and has not been heard. let us not allow a situation to arise in which the citizens of the member states live with the resigned feeling that the european union project is not theirs, that it is developing in a way they do not wish, and that they are merely forced to submit to it. very easily and very quickly we would find ourselves back in the times we used to say belonged to the past. this is also closely related to the question of prosperity. it must be said openly that the economic system of the european union today is a system of suppressed markets and a continuous strengthening of the central management of the economy. although history has shown us more than enough that this is not the way to go, we are going in that direction again today. the degree of restriction of the spontaneity of market processes and the degree of political regulation of the economy are constantly increasing. this development in recent months is also due to the misinterpretation of the causes of the current financial and economic crisis as being caused by the market, whereas the real cause is the opposite, caused by political manipulation of the market. we must recall the historical experience of our part of europe and the lessons we have learned from it. many of you are probably familiar with the name of the 19th century french economist frederic bastiat and his famous candle makers' petition, which has become a well-known and now canonical textbook exposing the absurdity of political interference in the economy. on november 14, 2008, the european commission heard a real, not a fictitious, bastiat's candle makers' petition and imposed a 66% duty on candles imported from china. i wouldn't have believed that a 160-year-old literary essay could become a reality, but it did. the inevitable consequence of the widespread introduction of such measures is the economic backwardness of europe and the slowing down, if not the arresting, of economic growth. the only solution is to liberalise and deregulate the european economy. i say all this out of a sense of responsibility for the democratic and prosperous future of europe. i am trying to recall the fundamental principles on which european civilization has been built for centuries, or even millennia. principles that are timeless and universal and should therefore also apply in the european union today. i am convinced that the citizens of each member state want freedom, democracy and economic prosperity. perhaps most importantly at this point, the requirement that free discussion of these matters should not be seen as an attack on the very idea of european integration. we've always thought that the right to debate these serious issues, to be heard, to defend the space for everyone to present more than one correct opinion, even if we don't agree with it, is the very democracy that has been denied us for four decades. we, who have, through involuntary experience for the greater part of our lives, verified that the free exchange of opinions and ideas is a fundamental condition for a healthy democracy, believe that this condition will be honored and respected in the future. it is an opportunity and an irreplaceable method to make the european union freer, more democratic and more prosperous.
i am not going to go into detail. mr president, you wanted to speak before the european parliament. we were happy to grant that request. mr president, in a parliament of the past you would certainly not have been able to make that speech. (applause from the centre) thank god we live in a european democracy where everyone can express his opinion! (applause and restlessness) i am not going to go into detail. we are a european family, and as in any family, there are differences of opinion. mr president, i agree with you when you say that i want to make only a few remarks, but i feel obliged to do so. we are a human community. a human community is characterized by its advantages, strengths, disadvantages and weaknesses. we must work together to strengthen the strengths and eliminate the weaknesses. i also agree with you when you say that we have to ask ourselves whether every decision we make could have been made somewhere else. i know! but it's also true that our national capitals need to ask themselves whether some decisions should be made in our cities and communities rather than at the national level. (applause from the centre) i would like to conclude by saying something about the sense of identity of our parliament: we thank you for your recognition of the importance of this european parliament. if we were not so influential today, if we were not law-makers in 75 per cent of cases, and if we were not co-legislators in almost 100 per cent of cases with the lisbon treaty, then it would be the bureaucracy in europe that would decide. but now the european parliament is deciding! (parliament adopted the resolution) mr president, we thank you for your visit. it was the expression of our diversity of opinion in europe, it was the expression of our european democracy, and in democracy the majority is ultimately the rule. i call on us all to continue to work together for this democracy, for europe, for unity, for peace! (parliament raised its hands and applauded the speaker.)
madam president, thank you very much. my suggestion is, yell back when you hear what i said. a colleague has just spoken, but he often has a different memory. i 'd like to remind you of this: when prime minister sócrates wanted to speak here at the signing of the european charter of fundamental rights, he was unable to do so because he was written off. mr president, mr klaus has been able to speak freely here. that's the difference between us and them. thank you, thank you. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, the views are indeed different. the legal position of the committee on development is, however, contrary to the position of the committee on foreign affairs and the legal affairs committee, to the legal position of the legal service of our parliament, to the case law of the european court of justice and to the position of the council and the commission, and that is why the majority of us insist on the legal basis as it appears from this amendment. i therefore ask that the request for referral be rejected. there is no difference in the substance of the report. we are essentially in agreement, but there are differences of opinion on the interpretation of the law, and they will not be changed by referral back.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 19 february 2009.
i have to say that i am very pleased. i say this in the language of the country concerned by this terrible event.
i am not going to go into detail. we cannot ask every irish member of parliament. i spoke for everyone, and that should be enough. do you agree that this is such a worthy tribute to the murdered? thank you. i have a short statement to make on yesterday's international women's day. on this occasion, i would like to extend a special welcome to all the women in our european parliament, and to thank them warmly for their efforts and to assure them that we will do everything we can to ensure that the principles of equality and gender equality are implemented at european level and worldwide. a hundred years ago, 15,000 women marched in new york city for recognition of their dignity and rights. today we celebrate that legacy. since then, there is no doubt that much has been achieved in terms of recognising and protecting women's rights and promoting equal opportunities between men and women in all areas of society. we must not let up in our efforts, there is still much to be done to achieve gender equality within the european union and to increase women's participation in working life, civil society and politics. the european parliament considers that the current level of women's participation in decision-making at local, national and european union level can be increased. our countries must find ways to encourage and support women's participation in decision-making and politics, both at national and international levels. we are only a few months away from the european parliament elections. i would like to stress today that the participation of women in european elections and their balanced representation in the european parliament are of particular importance both for the democratic development of the european union and for our society as a whole. in conclusion, i would like to remind you that many women are particularly affected by many of the wars on this planet, and we are committed to ensuring that the harassment and rape of women is not used as a weapon of war, and we must defend the dignity of all the people of this planet and must never let up in our commitment. i thank you for having taken note of this statement. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 5 february, has been distributed in accordance with rules 130 and 131. monday: firstly, the socialist group requests that the vote on the report by mrs kósáné kovács on the social situation of the roma be held tomorrow rather than on thursday as planned. secondly, the epp-ed group also requests that we vote tomorrow on mr reul's report on solutions to the challenges of oil supply. in both cases a deadline for joint motions for resolutions is set for this evening and it is therefore technically not possible to vote on these texts tomorrow. the vote could take place on wednesday instead of tomorrow. is there any objection to that?
we have noted this political will. i am told that according to our rules of procedure, it is only possible to vote on wednesday. but we can also inform the roma representatives in this way, in order to express our political will. that would allow us to vote on both motions on wednesday. (parliament adopted the resolution) tuesday: the green group requests that a commission statement on genetically modified maize (mon810) be included on the agenda and that the debate be closed with a motion for a resolution. who would like to state the reasons for the motion? daniel cohn-bendit? i know.
thank you, thank you. that was the reason. who opposes the motion?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not mr swoboda has just pointed out that i support part of mr cohn-bendit's motion and i am against part of it. i think he's right. the commission's behaviour is certainly remarkable, to put it very elegantly. secondly, it is true that the situation in the council is confusing, there are states which share the commission's view, there are other states which are against it. the situation is similar in the home. it is right that we have to discuss this with the commission, despite the fact that it has repeatedly gone against the recommendations of parliament and also against parts of the council which have now moved forward again, and we therefore welcome the fact that we are getting a statement from the commission. the second part is the resolution. i have read the green group's motion very carefully and mr cohn-bendit's explanation was more about the election campaign than about the gm maize. that was interesting. the commission is not in a position to give its opinion on the matter, and i would ask you to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission is not misled. but this is such a far-reaching process that we think it needs to be carefully examined. that is why we are asking for the debate. i know! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
thank you, thank you. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
we have a request to put the motion for a resolution on the agenda. we have heard from mr fjellner that neither a statement nor a resolution will be on the agenda. i would vote on that first, as a matter of procedure, and then we can discuss whether we have the explanation. i have a motion for a resolution to that effect. the vote on the motion for a resolution will now be taken by roll call to decide who will vote in favour of the motion tabled by mr cohn-bendit and the green group. the vote will take place today at 12 noon.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there's no need to make it more complicated. you're right, technically. you're such a steady president, i don't doubt that. but i had the impression that mrs frassoni agreed with what we had proposed. we are discussing this with the commission this week and i would also ask that this be put on the agenda. i would also ask that a resolution be prepared by the committee responsible. i think that is the more advanced proposal, which you can then put to the vote first.
we can talk about it for another half hour. the correct procedure is to vote on whether or not to accept the greens/efa motion. i have already tried to build a bridge by suggesting that we should talk again afterwards about whether we want a statement from the commission. but it's got to be in that order. (parliament rejected the request) wednesday: i would like to inform you that 113 amendments have been tabled to mrs ferreira's report on a european economic recovery programme. the number of applications under article 156 has been exceeded. i therefore referred these texts to the committee responsible for consideration. the committee will meet this evening and the debate on the report will remain on the agenda for wednesday. the epp-ed group proposes that the oral questions to the council and the commission on sis ii be dealt with as the first item of the afternoon's sitting at 3 p.m. since all the groups have agreed to this, the agenda will be amended accordingly. i'm just being informed that i missed something for tuesday: the socialist group is asking for the debate to be extended by half an hour in the afternoon and for question time to be held from 6.30 p.m. to 8 p.m. as a result. is that okay? (parliament adopted the resolution) thursday:the greens/efa and alde group ask that the debate on the oral question to the commission on the 50th anniversary of the tibetan uprising be closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution.
i understand that, but that was not on the basis of our rules of procedure. (parliament adopted the resolution) as regards the debate on cases of violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, the socialist group proposes that the sierra leone sub-item be replaced by a new sub-item on the expulsion of aid organizations from darfur.
that brings the darfur issue to the agenda. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
the bureau of parliament will deal with this matter in a legally correct and politically sound manner. you can count on that.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. lászló surján said that we have a tight budget, each of us having less than 1% of gdp. we must be all the more careful with money, especially in view of the crisis that is afflicting people. we should also try to make the decisions together. there is a part of this report on which no joint decision can be taken. it concerns energy supply and energy security. i wonder whether, in a time when we have to count every euro, we can actually invest money in areas where there are players in the market who generate billions in profits. it is proposed to support gas pipelines, which in the case of southstream are supported by eni, an italian group which has made a surplus of 10 billion euros. in the case of northstream, it is eon, a german group, which has a surplus of eur 5 billion, or nabucco, a german, an austrian and a turkish company, which have a total surplus of over eur 6 billion. we have to put taxpayers' money into areas where there are surpluses. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should not throw money at people who are already making enough. so the question is, do we want that? the second question is, if we're supporting businesses, why nabucco? why are we trying to create imbalances? why, for example, do we want to favour the hungarian company over the italian one? how do you justify that? competition neutrality is a must. what you're deciding to do is a violation of that. the third point is that the money must be spent in europe. what is the use of investing in azerbaijan? our european citizens want us to provide solutions to the crisis. they expect us to help. we cannot support the surján report, because we would be promoting measures that distort competition, and we would be throwing money at institutions and industries that make a lot of money. we cannot afford to do that as the european union, given the limited resources available.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's annual strategy for 2010 will also be the subject of a response in the absence of a resolution from the political groups. the budget is a complex structure because it is initially divided into two stages. this parliament and this committee on budgets will still be responsible for the july conciliation, and we cannot foresee today the new challenges and complementary measures that will arise, for example, from the possible entry into force of the treaty of lisbon or from new requirements that will be imposed on us as a result of the cyclical developments in the international and european spheres. at the same time, the 2010 budget will later serve as a bridge to the budgetary review and the mid-term review of the multiannual programmes, both to be held in 2010. i am particularly pleased that the rapporteur, mr surján, has emphasized that europe can be an opportunity and a protection in the sphere of european budgetary policy, namely to guarantee internal and external security, to provide protection for european citizens and to help to overcome the current problems by stimulating growth, employment and innovation. it's not just about new, fresh money. the question of simplifying and speeding up existing measures is also at stake, so that we do not have to make the agreed payments for our solidarity programmes already in the budget through supplementary budgets every year. i also welcome the priorities set out by mr maňka in his report to parliament. in addition to the necessary improvement of the language arrangements, the improvements to parliament's internal structures should not simply consist in continuing to call for new posts, but should continue the screening we have begun. if we pass more laws, we will have to concentrate more elsewhere and we will not always be able to demand new positions and posts at will. we've got a lot of work to do here!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i have two reports here, both from the legal affairs committee of the european parliament. i would like to start with the most important one at the moment, because it concerns a specific legislative procedure initiated by the commission, namely european private enterprise. this is the core legislative element of the small business act. a few notes on history: the idea of the european private company was already in the action plan on company law by commissioner bolkestein. for reasons which i have never been able to understand, the idea of a european private company has been dropped from the action plan over the years, during the term of office of this commission, and the commission has not pursued it further. the european parliament, however, has taken the opposite view and, in this context, has tabled a legislative owninitiative report under rule 39 of the rules of procedure and article 192 of the treaty, which was adopted by an overwhelming majority in this house some time ago. the commission has considered whether this situation requires it to reconsider the idea of the european private company and has now proposed it in the context of the small business act. we welcome that very much. this is an offer, especially to the medium-sized businesses in europe, of a form of company which has hitherto been reserved for large companies, namely the european joint stock company. i think it was long overdue to make such a suggestion. since this is aimed at smes and there must be the possibility of new start-ups, including companies which arise from the idea of wanting to start a business and are not intended as a transformation, division or merger of existing or other companies, we also welcome the fact that the european commission has shown restraint in relation to the requirements imposed on the crossborder nature. i think we did that in the parliamentary report. we also believe that it is right that all the questions relating to capital and liability in particular should be clarified by legislation at european level, because this is precisely what is a problem for smes, which, given the fact that they are now dealing with very different national legal systems, have a considerable need for advice which can be eliminated by this new legal system. we also agree with the case law of the european court of justice on the question whether the registered office of the company must be identical to the registered office or the administrative office, so that only one registered office can be provided for. i know that there is a minority view here in the house on this matter, but we in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament are of the opinion - and i assume the plenary will follow tomorrow - that there must be a possibility of separation and that we cannot put a european form of company at a disadvantage to national forms of company, which have this possibility according to the case law of the european court of justice. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we have already had considerable difficulties in this respect in the past with other corporate legislation. i am referring only to the european company and the crossborder merger directive. i believe that we have succeeded here, through the compromise proposals signed by the three largest groups in this house, in finding a real solution which builds on what has been achieved in the european union's previous legislative acts, which finds a compromise between the different legal systems in the member states and which also contributes to protecting workers' rights. i would like to make one final comment on the 14th directive, for which i am also rapporteur. we have a similar history here to that of the european joint stock company. we are trying to force the commission, through this legislative resolution, to make a concrete proposal, as in the case of the epg, and we expect the commission to do so, so that one of the last remaining loopholes in company law can be closed and the freedom of establishment of companies can be guaranteed. thank you very much for your attention.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. smes are the backbone of our society and account for 67% of jobs in the european private sector. i therefore welcome the 'sme priority' initiative and i am committed to ensuring that this principle is taken into account at all levels of political and administrative decision-making. in the current financial crisis, we need to create real, tangible added value for small and mediumsized enterprises in order to strengthen smes as a stabilising factor in the crisis. i have been involved in the social affairs committee, as author of the opinion, in the elaboration of the ideas which are now before us for a vote. many of my proposals are now reflected in the text, including the importance of the principle of flexicurity. this approach is intended to create flexible labour markets on the one hand, which are balanced on the other hand with a high degree of job security. i also received a response to my request that labour law should provide a solid basis for smes. small and medium-sized enterprises often cannot afford their own legal or human resources departments and therefore rely on simple and clear rules. one of my main demands - the sme test for legislation - was also supported by the committee in charge. we must prevent bureaucracy before it arises. the impact assessment of new legislation must be carried out consistently. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. it was important to me that the results of this sme test be subject to an independent evaluation by an independent body, and this idea was incorporated in the text. smes are currently facing particular challenges, particularly in the context of the global financial crisis. i therefore welcome in particular the call in the report to implement as quickly as possible the proposals of mr stoiber's high level group on reducing bureaucratic costs. we must act now to harness this potential.
the commission has already done so. never has the medium-sized enterprise been more important than it is today. the economic and financial crisis, which was caused by the big ones and not by the small ones, is now primarily affecting small and mediumsized enterprises. it is important for small and mediumsized enterprises, because they too will soon suffer. however, they do carry a large share of the economic output. in the country i know best, smes account for 20% of all patents, 40% of all gross investment, 49% of all turnover, 70% of all employees and 80% of all trainees. we need to rethink now. we have to press the big reset button, so to speak. we need to promote entrepreneurial mindsets and that's what the small business act is about. i would like to congratulate mrs herzog on her report. it is now really important that we define smes as a cross-section and that we rethink the support measures, that we put small businesses first in public tenders and not allow the public sector to intervene in competition. so congratulations to you: tax cuts for labor-intensive industries, that has to come now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the issue of participation has been raised here on several occasions. i do not want to go into detail here, but i would like to point out in this context that the company law of our member states also has a function in terms of safeguarding public policy interests, such as the protection of creditors, the security of the legal order, consumer protection and more, which is safeguarded in the member states in terms of preventive legal practice, for example by register and form regulations. there are considerable differences between member states. the decision-making of the legal affairs committee takes this into account in many places - this is very welcome - by leaving options open to member states. but in the end these things are counteracted, they can be counteracted, provided that the registered office and the actual office, that is to say where the company actually operates, are allowed to differ from each other, because then these safeguards will be void. the company can practically choose its registered office wherever it wants, thereby avoiding the requirements of the country where it actually operates. but in my view, this means that the member states lose de facto - not de jure, but de facto - a large part of their sovereignty over company law and its regulatory function, because it can be eroded. i would also add that it does not have to be, but it can be it also jeopardises the seriousness of european private society, at least in the member states where otherwise stricter requirements are provided for. now you might say, let's see how this goes, and then we'll correct it. i would agree with that if unanimity and the procedures did not cement this development. that's my biggest concern. there's no reason for this procedure. the case law of the european court of justice is only an emergency appeal because we have no directive on the relocation of headquarters, but this european private company as it is now envisaged would basically cement this disagreement, and for all time as european community law. i would therefore ask the council to give this matter a very careful second thought.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank everyone for a very interesting debate. first of all, i apologise on behalf of my colleague, charlie mccreevy, who has an ecofin commitment early tomorrow. his absence is due to preparations for that. i wish to respond to some of the points raised. part of the response lies in the overall process which we are driving together including, for example, the great political signals parliament has sent to smes in 2009. these provide good encouragement, especially in a time of crisis, especially as we believe that smes have very high potential and that they deserve specific attention – mainstreaming, for example, the connection between education, training and smes. i am pleased that, since 2007, we have been working together with dg enterprise and commissioner verheugen on entrepreneurial education, which is very much needed in europe and lags behind many other areas. i could quote many examples of good instruments – such as erasmus for young entrepreneurs – but do not want to speak on these just now. it is a process of many issues around access to finance. the eib is now freeing up space and volume for credits: eur 30 billion for smes, eur 1 billion a year more for medium-sized corporations, and an additional eur 1 billion for mezzanine financing. we recently decided, as you know, to relax the rules on state aid, levering the de minimis threshold to eur 500 000, which means better conditions in general for more intensified state aid. this will also help facilitate subsidies for the production of green products. mr karas spoke on the small business act (sba). some member states are already monitoring and reporting on sba implementation. this was the case in 2008 and, starting in 2009, there will be annual assessment by member states as part of all national reform programmes. we will therefore know more, and this culture of mainstreaming and support will grow. on public procurement and smes, the commission held vast consultations with stakeholders, including business organisations. one real problem lies with application of the rules by public buyers. we need more competition, more transparency and no discrimination, but the good news is that 42% of volume, above eu thresholds, is already going to smes in the european union, which is really significant support. mr wurtz spoke on the separation of registered offices and headquarters, and the problem of a potential erosion of employee participation. the separation of smes’ registered offices and headquarters is already general practice in half of the member states, including those with very high standards of social policy safeguards. it ensures the flexibility companies need when doing business in more than one country. regarding the 30-day request by mr beaupuy, this should be dealt with in the proposal already in the pipeline on late payments, which should be adopted in the commission before the end of the month. the issue of consultations and worker participation has been much discussed here – and not only today. as part of its preparations, the commission conducted, between july and october 2007, a public consultation on the potential spe. representatives of trade unions, including european trade unions, presented their views at conferences, especially during 2008. a major conference was held in march 2008, and we discussed these questions with experts from european trade unions several times that year. i want to underline one important thing, which is the legal basis. this is not article 138, because we are not in the field of social policy, but article 308, making it a different initiative based on unanimity of the member states. there was no reason to launch a specific consultation under the former article. i want to remind you that we already targeted large public companies when we launched the proposal on the european company, and that spe proposal was designed for smes. employees’ information and consultation rights were dealt with in 2001, in the first directive on the european company. since 2002, we have had a general framework for informing and consulting employees in the european union. there is no reason to disregard these rules and come up with a different solution in this current proposal on the spe. if workers’ collective rights are to be improved, which is our intent, this should not be done only in respect of one type of company, but through a more general initiative that also takes into account the different traditions in the member states. we have already made important progress in the evaluation of employees’ rights in the european company statute. follow-up measures will be considered when the full assessment is completed in 2010. some points were made on why there was not more input into taxation and accounting. i would remind you that we do not have general legislative power on every issue. legislative initiatives on company law, insolvency law, accounting and tax law are attached to very specific, and often restrictive, legal bases in our treaties, and the existing treaty hardly serves as a basis for a complete body of european business law. last but not least, i want thank you for a very open and constructive debate, and also for real cooperation on sme policy issues. i see many friends of smes here. the recommendations in the first report will be taken into account in the implementation of the action plan, and especially in all relevant issues connected to small businesses. concerning mr lehne’s report, a lot of work still needs to be done because we need to achieve agreement in the council. we will need some time, especially in the light of unanimity, but your input can really soften the atmosphere and help to find real consensus and approval. we want to facilitate this progress and to put in place a statute which really helps european businesses. on the cross-border transfer of registered offices, the commission agrees that companies should be free to move their seat within the european union, provided that the rights of shareholders, creditors and employees are guaranteed. we therefore need to strike the right balance between freedom of establishment and the interests of third parties. i would conclude by saying that this is the european year of creativity and innovation, and that it is very important to have an approach which brings forward the creative potential of our businesses. people are very important, not only because there is a crisis, but because there is no greater potential than that of human beings. issues such as iprs or the community patent could in the near future be addressed through a more open-minded and open-hearted political approach. europe could be more innovative and creative in supporting smes.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. four points. firstly, the directive on seat arrangements. i think the commission should abandon its argument. she's in danger of making a fool of herself in the professional world. the theory that you can regulate a transfer of headquarters by setting up a company in a neighbouring country and then merging your own company with that newly created company with the help of the merger directive is hardly out of the question in terms of bureaucracy. we are talking about cutting red tape and making things easier for smes. this proposal is just proof of the absurdity of the commission's insistence on not proposing a 14th directive. this is a lawyer's shop, but it doesn't help anyone else. secondly, the question of participation. mrs van den burg is right. the compromise we have proposed has no effect whatsoever on genuine smes. the only thing that is needed is to avoid cases of abuse and to include companies which are really large and which would actually be more suitable as european public limited companies than as european private companies in terms of the number of employees. there are practically only cases of abuse that are recorded. third point, the theory of sitting. there are only seven member states which still subscribe to the seat theory. there's only seven left! germany, the largest member state, abandoned the seat theory last year. the european court of justice does not represent them anyway, but allows them in exceptional cases, as in the cartesio case. the train has left. it's no use arguing about it anymore. fourth remark: the argument of the left - that there was no one present during the debate earlier - that the proposal should be rejected is taken into account, and mr medina is quite right - is not the content of the report. the content of the report has done away with all the criticisms that have been made. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mrs kósáné kovács, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the social situation of roma and improving their access to the eu labour market [2008/2137 (ini) ] (a6-0038/2009).
the point is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by gabriele stauner on behalf of the committee on budgetary control on the commission's action plan for an integrated internal control framework [2008/2150 (ini) ] (a6-0022/2009).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the principle of effective internal control is one of the most important budgetary principles to be observed by the commission in the implementation of the budget and in the use of appropriations. the european court of auditors and the european parliament have for many years called for effective and efficient control of the budget and the court of auditors in particular has made numerous attempts and suggestions to the commission to ensure that the budget is used in an appropriate and economical manner. however, for many years the court of auditors has failed to give the commission a so-called positive statement of assurance. i would just like to recall the incidents of irregularities in the implementation of the leonardo programme a few years ago and other areas of assistance which have always been very vulnerable to irregularities and perhaps fraud. in january 2006, the commission adopted an action plan for an integrated internal control framework, again with the aim of obtaining a positive audit opinion from the court of auditors. the commission's efforts to implement the action plan are, as our report says, undoubtedly serious. however, parliament must be clear that the implementation of the measures is considerably behind schedule. the commission must therefore increase the rate at which the measures envisaged are implemented considerably if the positive effects are to be reflected in the foreseeable future in the annual report of the court of auditors and if we, the members of parliament, are to be able to grant discharge in good conscience. i do not want to go into the details of the still unsatisfactory implementation of the measures, but i would stress that effective control measures are all the more necessary now that, following the economic recovery package, almost all the criteria for implementing support measures have been substantially relaxed and relaxed in the sense of rapid aid. i would just like to remind you of the planned relaxation of the structural funds and the substantial changes in the principles of support for the european globalisation adjustment fund. we are of course aware that all support measures, especially in the area of the structural funds, are carried out in close cooperation with the member states, which is absolutely necessary to guarantee the usefulness of expenditure, but which also raises not insignificant problems in the control by the commission. we have known for years that the commission cannot always do what it might like to do, and what the budgetary principles and the court of auditors' ideas require, when it carries out such checks in the member states. in particular, with regard to the annual summaries and declarations on the management of funds at national level, which were first submitted to us by the commission on 15 february 2008, parliament has great difficulty in getting a final picture because the documents do not follow uniform criteria. we therefore call in our report - which was unanimously adopted by the committee on budgetary control - for the member states to make a lasting contribution to ensuring that the data are provided in full and comprehensible form. i very much hope that the commission will continue to take its task of implementing the internal control framework seriously. thank you, thank you.
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs christel schaldemose, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the integrity of online gambling. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by maria petre, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on food quality assurance harmonisation or mutual recognition of standards [2008/2220 (ini) ] (a6-0088/2009).
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by manuel medina ortega, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on cooperation between the courts of the member states in the taking of evidence in civil or commercial matters [2008/2180 (ini) ] (a6-0058/2009).
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the summary of the report by mr bert doorn on the application of directive 2006/43/ec on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of financial institutions and insurance undertakings [2008/2247 (ini) ] (a6-0014/2009).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in this report on oil supplies i have called for - and the committee has decided to do so - the importance of oil for europe's future energy supply to be emphasised. it is clear that oil will remain a very important source of primary energy in the eu in the medium and long term. we have a strong increase in demand, driven by population and economic growth, and also driven by individual mobility desires. we have been dealing in different ways over the past months and years - and in this respect the report has concentrated a little too much - with the logically obvious question at the outset: how can we reduce consumption, how can we reduce demand? how can we ensure that we use less or that we use what we consume in other forms of energy? this report is an attempt to turn our attention to the fact that we as politicians should be thinking about how we can increase the resources, the supply side and whether we can increase it and what we can do about it. three or four points have been made here. first, the indication that we need huge investments to extract and use what is available in oil. the figure that is always put forward in this context is 350 billion dollars a year. secondly, it is necessary to point out that we have much more to do in the field of new technological developments. we must think about how to use the reserves we have as effectively as possible. the question of technology, the question of the use of land and, of course, the question of external relations are all coming into focus here very quickly. the report also attempts to point out, in a number of points which i cannot present here, that we must intensify our efforts to make non-commercial oil resources commercially usable in order to contribute to diversification, to answer the question of how we can also change transport routes, to raise the question of what contribution foreign policy can make in order to achieve stronger relations, dependencies and reliability between the european union and the oil-producing countries. this report does not attempt to answer all the questions related to oil, but it does attempt to address some of the issues which have not been the focus of attention so far. all the questions of efficiency, of savings, are left out here, not because they are not important, but because they are dealt with elsewhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is a brief summary of what is in this report.
i declare the 2009/2010 session of the european parliament open.
the next item is the vote on the application of the urgency procedure to the proposal for a council regulation establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean.
- i'm not going to. i understand that the president will make a statement on this day and its particular features at the opening of the plenary session tomorrow. that's where it's gonna come in.
the next item is the report by mr andreas schwab, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to their general safety (com (2008) 0316, c6-0210/2008 - 2008/0100 (cod)) (a6-0482/2008).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you, mr verheugen, and the commission, its staff, the czech presidency of the council, which unfortunately cannot be here today, and also our staff in the committee, for the good and constructive cooperation on this dossier. when you look at how climate-friendly measures can be taken for cars, it sometimes surprises you that so much attention is paid to other measures. i believe that we have taken an important step forward together here as a parliament, as european institutions, which has not yet been able to show its real significance in public and in political debate. this regulation which we are adopting today is environmentally friendly because it is an important contribution to european policy to reduce co2 emissions from motor vehicles as part of the co2 package. but it also - and i call this a wise environmental policy - helps consumers and motorists to pay less and at the same time to protect the environment, because it leads to considerable savings, not only in co2, but also in the consumption of petrol and diesel. it also leads - and this is also an important point which has been of particular importance to parliament and to the members - to an improvement in the safety situation on european roads, not only for lorries but also for cars. i do not want to go into detail on the regulation, but i think there are some important political signals that we should address here: the first point is that by introducing a mandatory tyre pressure control system on motor vehicles, we will achieve that tyre pressure, combined with improved tyre tread performance, which can be achieved by the tyre industry, will enable motorists in europe to use up to 5% less fuel without the costs of this being significantly increased. a tyre pressure monitoring system already on the market today costs around 100 euros, sometimes well below, and the cost savings for consumers that result are considerably higher. the second point which, in my view, deserves special attention is the fact that we have succeeded in making it compulsory to introduce a stability system, the so-called esp system, in motor vehicles as early as 2011, not against the european automobile industry but with its explicit participation and consent, because this will lead to a considerable increase in safety on european roads. unfortunately, it was not possible because the technical specifications were not yet sufficiently available , including emergency brake assistants and lane-keeping assistants i apologize for these rather technical terms, which are not generally used in public debate also mandatory for 2018 in particular for trucks. this will bring about a considerable increase in safety on european roads, especially motorways. i can only say that this will reduce the number of people killed or injured in accidents by about 35 000. finally - and there are still some differences in the assessment - we have also achieved that the tyres emit considerably less noise as a result of this regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the noise levels in the road are not reduced, and i am grateful to the council for having finally adopted this proposal. i thank you for your cooperation and look forward to an interesting discussion.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already done so. first of all, i should like to congratulate mr schwab on the compromise he has worked out here with the council. i am not sure that all the points have been taken into account, but that is the way it is with compromises. the introduction of mandatory safety systems for vehicles is particularly welcome. the mandatory introduction of new safety technologies such as esp will in future benefit not only buyers of premium cars but also drivers of commercial vehicles from a higher standard of road safety. we are making a decisive contribution to european security. this must also apply to the safety of tyres. it is right to place the importance of wet grip and thus the safety of tyres clearly above the rolling resistance which contributes to the reduction of co2. the rolling resistance of the tyres accounts for between 20 and 30% of fuel consumption, depending on the driving situation and speed. it is therefore clear that the current environmental debate and the falling cost of petrol mean that a reduction is to be achieved. however, it must be remembered that without the rolling resistance, which is caused by the deformation of the tyre and its elastic properties, safe and comfortable driving would be impossible. that's why we need to think about security in a different way. the new developments by the tyre manufacturers show that safety and reduction of rolling resistance are possible. we are also making sure that the european automotive industry is and remains a world leader. the compromise proposals to be voted on tomorrow send a clear signal against the co2 hysteria towards greater road safety.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, especially mr titley and the commission, for the good report. i would like to thank the czech presidency for its support. i must say that we have been under great pressure from the council during this trilogue, and the council has shown little ambition, on the contrary: it warned us at the beginning against making too high demands so that we would not endanger the producers in an economic crisis. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. of course, energy efficiency and co2 emissions play a very important role. the question of safety is of course also important, and we cannot neglect the question of noise, which was somewhat overlooked in the debate. noise is a disease that affects more and more people, and it also has a high social cost. it is therefore also important that this regulation complies with relevant standards. we have reached a good compromise. we have not signed the first reading agreement because we have criticised the procedure and also the pressure exerted by the czech presidency of the council, but we can live with the compromise and we will agree to it as a group.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. i can only thank you very much for the broad support for this proposal from all sides of the house. of course, it's a compromise, and you can always ask for a little more. i can also say that i myself and the commission would have been prepared to go a step further. but this is what we have been able to achieve, and it is a great step forward. i would like to emphasize once again what mrs rühle said. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because one thing is clear: the crisis in demand is not only related to general economic conditions and economic uncertainty, but also to the fact that the cars offered by european manufacturers may not have met the requirements of the european market in recent years in terms of fuel consumption, environmental friendliness and safety. that's why it's so important that this is caught up now very quickly. let me say a few words about the problem mrs doyle raised. i am aware that there is a misinterpretation of the type-approval requirements in some member states - you have rightly pointed this out - but it is a misinterpretation which does not correspond to the legal framework we have. the commission will ensure that the necessary clarifications are made and that the negative consequences that you have described, mrs doyle, do not occur.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am of course glad of the congratulations, but i must say that in the trilog you are always only as strong or as fast as the colleagues who work there. i would therefore like to extend mr bulfon's compliments to you all. but i can say - and this is extremely important to me - that i did not feel pressured by anyone and i did not feel under political pressure. the only difficulty in this legislative project - and i will not hide this, it has been raised in part - was, of course, to design this demanding legislation in such a way that we do not lose jobs in the european union, but rather safeguard them. this balance has not always been easy to find in individual cases. but i think we have found a very good middle ground that satisfies all the interests. however, i must say that in all the cases we have now solved in the past few months or weeks in the trilogue, criticism has been repeatedly raised that it was too fast. we can discuss this question at the beginning of a parliamentary term and then stick to it throughout the whole parliamentary term. but we should not talk about democratically unclean procedures at the end of the day - when certain issues are being resolved - even though we have always supported these procedures for three years in this house. i accept that criticism, but i think that this problem should be solved immediately after the elections for the whole of the electoral period. it is also important that we relate this proposal to the proposal by mr sacconi, which has been successfully completed. the aim was to reduce co2 emissions from motor vehicle engines to 130 grams, of which 10 grams were to be used for additional measures. some of these additional measures have now been regulated. i am curious to see how we will fill the remaining unfilled seats and what proposals the commission will make to us after the elections to parliament. i would add that we had to find an economic middle ground on the question of transition. we have not yet settled the 30 months, but the commission will make an impact assessment for each type of tyre, on the basis of which it will then decide on a type-by-type basis when the deadline can expire. i think it is economically most sensible to withdraw tyres legally produced in the european union as soon as possible, but only when the market really offers the potential to do so. so i would like to end by thanking all those involved.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr holger krahmer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on industrial emissions (integrated pollution prevention and control) (recast) [com (2007) 0844 - c6-0002/2008 - 2007/0286 (cod) ] (a6-0046/2009).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we are about to vote on the directive on the prevention of industrial emissions. the environment committee has adopted a number of compromises by a large majority. i hope that this good trend will continue, because with these regulations we are harmonizing the environmental requirements for industrial plants in the eu. this improves environmental protection and at the same time ensures fair competition. the european safety net is the central point of the compromise. this concept introduces community-wide limits for emissions of pollutants by industry. these define clear requirements for the approval of the installations. to get a permit, they have to be better than the safety net's specification. this approach leaves enough room to respond to individual requirements. however, the possibility of abusing this margin of manoeuvre and operating plants with poor emission levels via derogations is over. the safety net will provide clarity and the necessary flexibility. extensible and extendable exceptions can be omitted altogether. when i made this proposal, i was accused of being a "green" activist. this is - i say this once carefully - a little bit of an exaggeration. this is about better implementation of eu rules that have been in place for years. best available technology and the european safety net should be standard in every industrial plant in the eu since last autumn. we're a long way from that. the best available technology is reasonably implemented in only three member states. nitrogen and sulphur oxides are among the main problems of industrial pollution. the potential for reduction is 60 to 80% if the best available techniques were applied consistently. that's what the european environment agency says. this technology is not science fiction, it's not from the lab, it's not in the lab stage, it's available, it's affordable, and it works. however, many member states are saving themselves the trouble because there is a good money to be made in the dirty work. some member states have simply neglected investments in the modernisation of their installations for years. this distorts competition, it is bad for the environment, and that is why i am advocating a new approach to better enforcement of the best available techniques. the compromise packages also reduce red tape, which only costs money but does not help the environment. we therefore link the number of reports that operators must send to the authorities to the risk posed by the plant and to whether operators comply with their obligations. the same applies to inspections by the authorities. where it can become dangerous, it should be looked at more closely, where nothing happens, it does not need to be monitored constantly. soil protection is a wonderful thing for a lot of people in this house. i am sorry to say that a constructive debate is no longer possible. nevertheless, it was possible to find compromises. they shall reduce the soil condition report to the essentials; the status report is not to be exhaustive and always to be prepared. instead, we're focusing it on the actual risk that comes from the plant. analyses are required where dangerous substances are actually used in relevant quantities. moreover, the restoration of sites to their original state is unrealistic. that is why the compromise now speaks of restoring it to a satisfactory state. this does not change my personal opinion that soil protection is not an issue that the eu should regulate. it would be better if the member states did not. ippc affects almost every industry. the commission has therefore been lobbying very intensively in recent days. in some areas, improvements to the original compromises were indeed necessary, for example in agriculture. the calculation of thresholds for poultry farms is too bureaucratic. instead of differentiating by species into turkeys, ducks and broilers, we should stick to the threshold of 40 000 places for poultry. nor does the application of natural manure, manure and slurry fall within the scope of this directive. the subject is relevant, a regulation is useful, but please do not include it in this act. a field is not an industrial plant. the farmers had many other points on their wish list, and the decision on these two points is appropriate. that is why i have tried to reach an agreement with the shadow reporters on this point. the same applies to the generation of electricity from waste gases in steel production. this process is very efficient, and it still produces energy from an otherwise useless by-product. however, the required marginal reduction in emissions would have been achieved only with a large financial effort. the point here was to maintain proportionality. it is striking and regrettable, however, that the epp-ed group is now, just before the vote, taking the compromises and scattering amendments all over the report. that's not constructive! the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i understand that the epp-ed colleagues are not sufficiently comfortable with the various compromises. i can only say that i would have liked to have discussed their proposals. however, they were not on the table at any stage of the compromise negotiations with the shadow rapporteurs. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the other shadow rapporteurs, in particular claude turmes, gyula hegyi and hans blokland, who, despite their differences in content, have always been reliable negotiating partners. today we have the opportunity to send a signal for better environmental protection and fair competition at the same time. i hope we will take the opportunity to develop a concept that is supported by important economic and environmental associations alike. please support the compromise. thank you, sir.
mr president, commissioner dimas, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the stated aim of this directive is to simplify the existing legislation on industrial emissions and to consolidate it into a single directive, thus cutting red tape. i can, however, see little of this in the commission's proposal. reducing bureaucracy means, for me, not creating new reporting obligations and complicated procedures, but above all avoiding duplication of work and unnecessary requirements. the commission proposal brings a new flood of bureaucracy, especially for agriculture. the extension of the scope of application would therefore also include livestock farms which are in no way comparable to the industrial establishments for which this directive is intended. the commission is also proposing rules which are already contained in a nitrates directive, the water framework directive or the groundwater directive. i ask for support for our amendments to avoid these double regulations. the calculation of the livestock ceilings must also be reasonable and comprehensible for poultry. please vote with me against splitting up into broilers, laying hens and turkeys! in germany, we call this "pea counting". there must also be no attempt to re-introduce the subject of soil protection through the back door with this directive. soil protection is important. this is where effective national legislation must come into play. i would like to expressly welcome, mr rapporteur, personally, as do others in my group, the concept of the european safety net. it's a good compromise. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. we guarantee a high, uniform level of security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. a law in which all the major measures to reduce pollution are based on the best available technology should be adapted at least every five years and not after thirteen years. the development of technology has long since passed us by. at the same time, we must all agree that, despite technical progress, our objectives under the directive at the time have not been achieved. that is why i am very much in favour of the compromise reached in the environment committee. its implementation will be effective. i cannot understand the hysteria when it comes to the protection of the soil or the wishes of the farmers' associations. the social democrats want to achieve ecological objectives without thwarting economic activities. this is what is forward-looking and not as backward-looking as what the epp-ed is now saying.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i want to make this very brief. i am very grateful for the constructive contributions to the debate which i have heard here. i would also like to end with two messages: first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner specifically for not being against the concept of minimum safety net requirements in principle. this proposal is not the work of the devil, nor is it a bureaucratic monster. it's a problem-solving tool that we should give a chance to. so i would like to use this opportunity to make a publicity call. the second thing i would like to say is to my british friends across all the parties. my dear british friends, i understand caroline, i understand your problem. i can understand that for a certain period of time a country's energy security is put before its compliance with an air pollution limit. i can understand that. i am also the last person who would not give your majesty extra time when it comes to building new coal-fired power stations. we can talk about it. the problem is, we didn't do exactly that. this conversation has never happened in the last four months. i would ask you - and this is the outlook for the second reading - to be open-minded at this point and to say: 'let us now talk about a compromise' and in return give up the resistance, which in my view is totally irrational, unjustifiable from the point of view of competition policy and environmental policy, to the fundamental opposition to minimum standards. i think that a compromise can be reached here, and i hope that it will be reached at the end of the second reading. i do not think, however, that we should not seek a compromise in a first reading. this legislation is too complex for that. i do not want to end this parliamentary term as rapporteur and leave to the next parliament a piece of legislation which is not consistent, which is illogical and contradictory. that is why i ask for support for the compromise when we vote in one hour!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are passing laws at european level for many hundreds of millions of people, and that is why transparency is needed. we all agree on the objective: transparency is important, and i also believe that we as the european parliament do not need to hide. we're in the media spotlight, we're being watched by journalists, our work is transparent today. the aim is the same, but the path is open to disagreement. and not everyone who discusses and questions the way is at the same time someone who wants to do everything in a quiet little room, but someone who asks questions. we in the epp-ed group have many critical questions, for example on the competition procedure in the council, for example on the question whether we have to make all documents of the legal service public, for example also on the question whether the private affairs of a member of the european parliament should now also be discussed at the public table. we're fighting for the privacy of our citizens, but the mdeps are supposed to make everything public. you're allowed to ask questions like that. the central point, and the reason why there is a great deal of scepticism in our group, is the question of the legislative process. if we vote by name, everyone can see how individual members voted. each member of parliament is also responsible for the way he votes. that is understandable today. but in a legislative process, in a trilogue, when we are discussing with each other, there must also be spaces where we negotiate. we know that if all this is made public, then the form of negotiations that we have today will not exist, because you are on the verge of being caught in the crossfire when you try to find and make political compromises. that is why we are still very sceptical about this proposal. we shall be clarifying our final position in the group tonight. i would like to make it clear to the group of the european people's party that transparency is acceptable, but the way forward must remain open to discussion. we are all agreed on the aim: when we discuss the individual institutions at european level, it is not the parliament that is the problem, but the council which is not present that is the problem, because unfortunately we have no idea what is going on in the working groups in the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i congratulate parliament on this new information system. but apparently some information doesn't seem to work in everyday life. i am very pleased that it has now been possible for many of us to raise the tibetan flag today on the 50th anniversary of the chinese occupation of tibet. i have heard that the bureau has said that certain flags should not be displayed so that members cannot display them on this important day. is there any up-to-date information on this?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i am very pleased that the president is finally allowing the rapporteur to speak on this subject. this is very surprising! we're just working on the rules of the new version. i would like to point out, however, that the application of these rules is not a surprise, even just before a vote. we have already applied these rules consistently in committee, and it is only logical that they should be applied consistently in plenary. if we vote now, there will be no amendments or compromises put to the vote that have not been discussed. everything has a clue on the voting list. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can vote now! (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision. i can help you get started and also point out to the president what he has decided himself. we now have amendments nos 106, 139, 88 and 89. the president declared amendment no 88 admissible. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. if not, you will have to ask your group staff. i'm sorry about that.
mr president, i just want to point out – since hungry mr beazley made a point about the roll-call votes – that, on the following report, every roll-call vote was requested by the ppe-de group. so much for that one!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the core of the kramer report, the european safety net. it lays down emission ceilings which member states must respect as an absolute ceiling for the approval of large industrial plants. then there's a rough framework in which everything moves flexibly, creating a level playing field. this will put an end to the inflationary exceptional practice which has existed in some member states. this means equal competition throughout europe. we can thus establish a high standard at european level. however, i must also say that i am strongly opposed to the regulations on soil protection. i think that the principle of subsidiarity should be taken more into account. soil protection regulations do not have a cross-border effect. soil protection is not a cross-border problem. i therefore still believe that the member states should regulate soil protection themselves. but here we are faced with an attempt to introduce through the back door of the ivu directive parts of the soil protection directive which we have successfully fought off before. i am particularly sorry that my requests for withdrawal were rejected by a very narrow majority, in some cases by only six votes. i have therefore decided to reject the report as a whole, although i expressly welcome the european safety net.
in writing. the spd meps voted in favour of the possibility of setting up a european private company. however, they make the following declaration: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the right to information, consultation and participation must therefore be extended without restrictions in the same way as under the existing european company and european cooperative arrangements. the newly agreed version of an epg improves the commission's proposal in this respect - that is why we support it - but it fails to achieve the objective of adapting to the existing rules. the danger of circumventing the right to participate is not eliminated. the procedure is not closed. we call on the council of ministers to improve: clear references to the european company (se) directive, in particular to its catch-up provisions on the election of members of the supervisory board or the board of directors; simplification of the unpractical rule in article 34, significant reduction of thresholds; specification that an se is indeed active across borders. we call on the commission to finally launch the 14th directive on the transfer of the registered office of companies with limited liability, since the only sensible way of guaranteeing the right to participate in transnational transfer of the registered office is a directive on the right of employees to participate in the management of companies.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, today marks the end of a difficult task, the end of a journey which parliament, the council and the commission have followed together, with difficulties to overcome, with technical problems, with even sharp contrasts. but i would like to say in this house, not only to you members who are about to conclude the work on a new maritime package, but to all the citizens of the european union whom you represent: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the european institutions are concerned with giving certain rules, with responding to the demands of the citizens; are able to overcome difficulties; i am not saying that the european parliament should be able to reach an agreement, when it is necessary, in the best interests of the half a billion europeans living within our borders. they are capable of giving a signal to ensure safety; are capable of giving a signal to protect the environment; are capable of giving a signal to defend the rights of passengers; they can send a signal to protect businesses and enforce rules. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. that is why i wanted to stress the importance of the vote you are about to give to this package: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the validity of this decision goes beyond the contingency, beyond the issues we are dealing with, which you have decided to turn into rules with the consent of the commission and the council. i repeat: it is a political choice, a signal to the european citizens that they should have confidence in institutions that are able to tackle and solve problems. that is why i would certainly like to thank the commission services, which have enabled jacques barrot and myself to work in the best possible way. i would like to thank the french and slovenian presidencies. i would like to thank dominique bussereau for the work he has done in the convulsive phase of the negotiations, but i would also like to underline the important work done by all the rapporteurs, by the committee on transport, by the whole of parliament. i would like to thank mr luis de grandes pascual, mrs dominique vlasto, mr dirk sterckx, mr kohlíček, mr paolo costa, mr gilles savary - i thank him once again for his work - and mr emanuel jardim fernandes for all they have done, including the ability to conclude a negotiation in the end, even if it means going beyond the correct or acceptable positions in an attempt to give a response to the citizens. the challenge we faced was to consolidate the european legislative instruments to combat illegal shipping and prevent marine accidents and pollution of our seas. we must now use all the regulatory instruments in the field of maritime transport to prevent the accidents which led us to take action from happening again. firstly, these instruments concern the flag state, which has primary responsibility for maritime safety, and the policy has been set out: all european flag states, without exception, must be on the white list and equipped with instruments to this end. a consolidated framework for the european recognition of classification societies will also allow for better control of our ships. other arrangements apply to the port state. there are ships and operators that we must no longer accept in our waters because they do not meet the minimum safety standards. other measures concern the coastal state: the effective monitoring of ships, including over long distances, is an essential preventive tool. the reinforced provisions for the reception of ships in distress in a place of refuge will help to prevent a shipping accident from turning into an environmental catastrophe. we must prevent accidents, but we must also take responsibility for the consequences of accidents and learn from them. operators must take out adequate insurance against third parties or their passengers. finally, a common framework for investigations will allow for optimal feedback on accidents in order to draw the appropriate lessons. of course, maritime transport like other sectors with zero risk does not exist: but it is the duty of the legislator, the duty of those who represent the citizens, to try to do everything possible to limit these risks to the greatest possible extent. i think that is our common objective, and i think we have taken a very important step. the package you are about to adopt is certainly a great step in this direction and - i repeat, once again - a great political signal, a great willingness on the part of the european institutions to give answers to the questions which 500 million citizens are asking us.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, not only for their work in detail, but also for the fact that we have achieved what we had set out to do: to treat the proposals as a package. by treating them as a package, we have forced the council to come to us, because you know that the council did not want to accept two proposals in one package. it is only by standing together that we have managed to get the council to take up these two dossiers as well, and we have succeeded. i share the vice president's view that this package is a great success for the citizens. we should say that in the campaign. i look around and there are not many people in the debate this afternoon, although it was one of the greatest achievements of the committee on transport to bring this package to fruition. the citizens may sometimes not understand why we have such long meetings and why it takes so long. but here you can see that this package is made up of surveillance regulations, regulations on classification societies, accident investigations, insurance obligations, liability regimes, port state control and flag state control. all these different aspects are needed with increased requirements to prevent accidents if possible and to be able to react quickly if accidents do happen. dirk sterckx, i would like to thank you in particular once again, because you were already rapporteur on the special committee which i had the honour of chairing, and we sat down again after 'prestige' to consider what we still need to improve. the commission, with jacques barrot, has taken up our proposals in substance, and we have actually completed them with the legislative procedure. we are therefore very pleased that after all these years we are able to conclude the third maritime package. but let me say two things. firstly, we should thank dominique bussereau, because as french minister he finally pushed the package over the last hurdles and made it a success. we should give him a special thanks. mr. vice president, all eyes are on you now. the commission, with its good european maritime safety agency, must now ensure that the member states also implement and apply this. because only if what we have decided is also applied will we be able to prevent accidents like "erika" and "prestige" from happening again. we should fight for it together. thank you, thank you.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we greens support this final compromise. we are glad that parliament has prevailed, so that all eight legislative proposals will be voted on in one package. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their cooperation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of shipping is not compromised by the lack of safety standards. the shipwreck associated with the names 'erika' and 'prestige' must not happen again. port state control now allows for better control of ships calling at eu ports and - this is important to us - for sanctions if they do not comply with safety rules. the monitoring of vessels in territorial waters is particularly important in ecologically sensitive areas, because pollution of the seas and oceans knows no bounds. this is why crossborder action is urgently needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on liability for passengers on board passenger ships are applied in the maritime sector. we greens would have liked to see it applied to inland waterway transport. finally, we are pleased that the council, after long hesitation, has also decided on the obligations of the port states and on the insurance and liability of shipowners. we have taken a huge step forward with this port package, knowing that these rules can and must be improved in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the success we have achieved has been made possible by them, and we should thank them for that.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. let me begin by saying that the mobility of people and goods is simply central to the quality of life of citizens, to growth and employment, to social and territorial cohesion in the european union and to trade with third countries. the european community therefore simply needs a transport infrastructure adapted to the needs of all modes of transport and a reasonable system of transport. the negative impact of transport on people and nature means that transport must be designed to be more environmentally friendly if it is to contribute to combating climate change. but, mr vice-president, what you have sent us as a document of principle on the greening of transport is a little too thin. i am sorry, but there is no single overall approach and you leave everything open, everything is put on the back burner of subsidiarity. either you say we must design transport in a way that is environmentally friendly, then this must apply in all parts of the european union and cannot be done according to the wishes of the member states. then it must apply from rail to sea. it is not possible for you to mention only road transport and then only lorry transport and then say that we leave it to the member states to decide whether or not to apply road tolls. if you want to make a fundamental change, you have to put forward an integrated approach for all modes of transport - and we have made this very clear in the committee - but you also have to do it with scientifically based impact assessments that take into account the impact on competition among modes of transport, the cost of mobility and the competitiveness of europe. the second communication on the internalisation of external costs is again a special department of your system, to propose something and not to propose it. because when you internalize the external cost, you make a big manual again, which gives you many ways to calculate it, but ultimately you say, we'll calculate it on a flat rate basis. no human can understand that. nor do they take into account the contributions already made by the various modes of transport, whether by general taxes, by mineral oil taxes or by motor vehicle taxes. you know, it's the same with the eurovignette. my group agrees with the other groups that exhaust gases and noise should be included in the external costs and burden of these. but traffic? mr president, the congestion is caused by the member states not providing sufficient infrastructure. if you get paid to manage shortages, that's quite an adventure. and you know very well that companies have been paying the cost of congestion for a long time, because they have higher labor costs, they have higher fuel costs. in this respect, mr el khadraoui, it is not worth internalizing congestion costs, quite the contrary. we must try to reduce congestion by means of a sensible extension of infrastructure and the use of intelligent traffic information systems, but we must not burden the operators who are already suffering from higher costs with additional costs in the area of road tolls. it doesn't make any sense. mr president, your communication on noise control on the railways is in principle a good one. but, as they say in english, where's the beef? what are you suggesting? you say there are many options. no, you're the commission! they have the right and the duty to make suggestions that we can implement. the committee on transport therefore calls on you to actually make a proposal for a directive on the charging of noise-related tiered railway fares so that, by recycling the revenue from such tiered railway fares, we can help railway companies - and private companies too - to actually introduce new brakes to reduce noise. because we all have one clear objective in this house: the noise pollution caused by the railways must be eliminated. we want to promote the railway, but then it must also run in an environmentally sound way through this rhine valley. if you are going to help us, then you must propose something concrete.
the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague el khadraoui. he has presented a workable compromise here under really difficult conditions. for us transport policy makers, it is a quantum leap that air pollution, noise and congestion can now be included in the tolls. this reinforces the polluter principle. the polluter pays principle prevents profits from being privatised and losses from being socialised. that is the social democratic way of thinking. parliament has undertaken to introduce this principle gradually in all modes of transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's railways are not affected by the crisis. it must also be made clear that the application of this surcharge is a matter for the member states alone. no one is forced. we are only setting the basis for this so that there is no patchwork of different toll models in europe and so that there is no discrimination. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not distorted. we are not talking about additional revenue sources, but about more traffic being directed by price signals. the committee on transport rightly wants the additional revenue to be used for the reduction of external damage. i 've got one last drop of wormwood . unfortunately, the committee's decision, as it stands, makes the introduction of congestion charges for lorries subject to the inclusion of other modes of transport, such as passenger cars. this will prevent congestion in member states which do not want to have road tolls, for example in germany. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i hope we get the necessary majority for this!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. transport, especially road transport, is responsible for 30% of co2 emissions, and even with this directive we are miles away from fair competition between modes of transport. since the mid-1990s, the eu has had a compulsory railway toll. it applies to every locomotive on every rail kilometre, and it is virtually unlimited in height. it is up to the member states to decide whether they will levy a toll on the road. it applies only to trucks, only on motorways and only to trucks over 12 tonnes. this is unfair competition! this will lead to a shift in traffic from rail to road, but not, as you always say in your sunday speeches, from road to rail. in slovakia, the toll on the railway is twice as high as in germany, and there is no toll on the road at all. this is crazy! that is why we need this directive, we need cost-effectiveness. and if the conservatives say that the costs of dams cannot be counted, then at least they should vote for the costs of climate change, the costs of accidents, all the costs of noise. then they become credible. those who say no here have given up on climate change and are ruining our children and grandchildren because they have no future on this planet. we need a regulation that is much more stringent than what has been put forward by the commission and the majority in this house.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me conclude by making two comments. firstly, to my colleague robert evans: my group is in favour of internalising the external costs of emissions and noise. we think that's reasonable. but if you always put the polluter in the foreground - and i am prepared to talk to you about this - then the member states are causing the congestion because they do not provide enough infrastructure. the trucks are driving into the traffic jam, which is 80% cars. it is absurd to make companies pay for a traffic jam caused by the member states. if the polluter principle applies, then the member state would still have to distribute money to the lorries, because the state is causing the congestion by not providing infrastructure in time. we agree that there is not always a need for additional infrastructure. it may also be that intelligent traffic systems can prevent congestion. there are many modern technologies that can be used to prevent traffic jams. but if you say because there's a traffic jam, the truck has to pay for it, then there's no incentive for the state to clear the traffic jam, because then it would lose revenue. this can't be right! mr president, you were right to say that you did not intend to introduce any new taxes with this new proposal and you insisted on the purpose of the proposal. can we agree, mr commissioner, mr vice-president, that if the council of ministers does not agree to a clear-cut earmarking of the revenue from the euro banknotes, you will withdraw the proposal? because you said you didn't want new taxes. i fully agree with you that if the price of the euro-vignette is increased because of the emissions and noise, the money must also be used to reduce the environmental impact of transport and not to plug the holes of the finance ministers. the latter is not possible! i hope that you will stick to your position, namely that there is no tax if there is no binding purpose and then withdraw the proposal! thank you very much.
member of the commission. − first of all, the internet and the elections. this is a question which those who are standing for election, the meps and the candidates, should take on board and on which they should develop better communication with their citizens. in recent years so many positive actions have been taken with the help of the european parliament that it should not be very difficult to present all these positive actions to citizens. looking only at the examples of e-inclusion in ireland, for instance, i can give the list of those which have been put into practice on the territory of ireland with irish companies, research centres and ngos. it will be very interesting, even for the meps themselves, to explain what is being done via the european budget to improve the life of citizens. the second question was about the young and the old, and how they can communicate better. well, i can tell you that my mother, who had never used a mobile phone, bought one in order to communicate with her grandchildren because she understood that this was the only way they could call her. now she is very much upset if they do not call her often enough. but i have also met a lot older persons who have come to use the internet because of skype, because their children or grandchildren are abroad and they would like to speak with them. that is why we are trying to develop measures towards a real internal market for communications in europe, so that this communication will be swift and not very expensive. that brings me to the third question: what about the price of the communications? there are a lot of services in operation which bring down the price of communications. now it is true that those services or those items specially adapted to the older generation are being kept on the home market, because the market is not yet developed very strongly and they are still too expensive. there is only one solution to this, namely to develop the market, because if thousands and thousands of older people take up those services, take up those instruments, the price will become affordable. so we have to raise awareness to promote the take-up of these ict goods and services which i believe will be one of the solutions to the problems of the ageing society.
member of the commission. − the question the honourable member has asked is not new, which shows that it is something that is very dear to the heart of meps. i would recall the answer i gave to the questions by mr moraes on the internet and hate crimes, by luca romagnoli on content and the use of blogs, and by robert kilroy-silk on racism and violence on social websites. i can tell you not only that those questions have been asked but also that the commission has taken action in this area. speaking only about the social websites, some weeks ago all the social networking site providers sat around a table and signed a code of conduct to help young children and adolescents to fight against negative content on these websites. as you know, the commission strongly rejects all racist and xenophobic views conveyed on the internet, together with the types of hate speech cited by the honourable member in his question. as is often the case with the web, the picture is one of stark contrasts. on the web, the best rubs shoulders with the worst: on the one hand, there are tremendous opportunities to diffuse and receive valuable, targeted information, for better social cohesion; on the other hand, it is an ideal forum for stereotypes, prejudices, derogatory views and even dangerous content, as was mentioned in the question. here lies the danger: should the state go and block access to websites or filter search-engine results? this is already being done by authoritarian states. in democratic countries, such as the eu member states, restrictions on the freedom of speech are exceptional and governed by the rule of law. it is worth noting that the council of europe has developed a series of international, legally binding instruments, directly and indirectly concerning the internet. these uphold the belief that cyberspace is not a lawless area, but is subject to the rule of law. i would recall the convention on cybercrime and its additional protocol. the commission has also adopted policies aimed at reducing racist content online, notably the recommendation on the protection of minors and human dignity and the right of reply, which calls for action against discrimination in all media. i would also like to draw attention to the framework decision on combating certain forms of expression of racism and xenophobia, which aims at criminalising intentional conduct, such as incitement to violence or hatred towards a group of people or against a person belonging to that group. this is a criminal offence if committed by public dissemination or distribution of tracts, pictures or other material, and here the member states have the obligation to comply with the provisions of the framework decision by 28 november 2010. i could also underline that the european law already prohibits incitement to hatred on grounds of sex, race, religion or nationality in tv broadcasts and in tv online. so we already have a whole series of mechanisms, a whole series of laws and a whole series of measures implementing these laws. but as always with negative content – be it in the traditional media or on the internet – it pops up more quickly than you can fight it.
member of the commission. − crime is crime wherever it happens, and that is why we also have instruments to go after crime when it is committed on the internet. together with my colleague jacques barrot, we will develop those instruments so that they become stronger and are used more efficiently. the problem of the internet, of course, is that it goes beyond national territory, which is why collaboration between police forces and those forces which combat terrorism and international crime has to be reinforced. in recent years, we have seen those forces working together with very good results. i hope and i think these efforts will continue.
member of the commission. − serbia's prospects for eu membership depend on its fulfillment of the copenhagen criteria for accession and the conditions of the stabilisation and association process, including full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. however, serbia is not a candidate country and has not applied to join the european union to date. i am therefore not in a position to give an opinion on what might happen in the future and what actions serbia might or might not take with regard to kosovo. in the event that serbia should submit an application for accession, the european commission will, following the request made by the council, prepare a draft opinion on the basis of the objective criteria laid down, applicable to all states applying for accession to the union. it is now up to the european council to decide whether or not to grant candidate status.
the commission has already done so. i personally think very highly of you, and i regret that commissioner rehn is not here, because i am not at all satisfied with the answer. i could have copied it off the internet. i will make it quite clear what my question was about: a stabilisation agreement is being negotiated with serbia, and it is in preparation. i would like to draw the commission's attention to the danger that there could be a serbian blockade against kosovo, as there is in the un and the council of europe. i wanted to ask what is being done to prevent something similar to the current blockade of croatia by slovenia.
member of the commission. - as i said in my reply, we do not wish to anticipate in any way possible future actions. serbia is at a particular point in time, it has not yet applied to join the european union; we will see what happens in the future. so, as i said, we don't speculate on hypothetical future situations.
member of the commission. − serbia's accession to the european union is conditional on serbia fulfilling the political condition of fully cooperating with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, while at the same time respecting all other obligations by serbia which are a condition for integration into the union. in this regard, the commission shares the council conclusions of april 2008, which reiterate that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, including making every effort to arrest and transfer the accused persons, is an essential element of the stabilisation and association process. in this respect, the assessment undertaken by the chief prosecutor of the icc, serge brammertz, is of particular importance. i have established a close and constant bond with him. commissioner rehn also took every opportunity to call on the serbian authorities to fully implement the recommendations made by the prosecutor-general in his december 2008 report to the united nations security council. this is the surest way for serbia to achieve full cooperation with the international criminal court and to make progress towards its aspirations to become a member of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to join the question put by my colleague, mrs sarah ludford. the commissioner was right to say that this is a criterion for serbia. he did not say whether serbia met this criterion or not. i'd be interested to hear about that. does serbia meet the criteria for full cooperation? in the case of croatia, we know that the criterion is met.
will the commission be committed to opening the chapter or will it wait until all the member states have agreed? does the commission not intervene in the member states?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we find the initiative of the czech presidency of the council to water down the eu childcare targets really shameful and of course we reject it decisively. it is also a great success that the eu family ministers, under pressure from the european parliament, did not join this dilution of childcare targets. i also find it very regrettable that the czech presidency is conspicuously absent today and unable to discuss with us its attempt to water down the barcelona objectives. the czech attempt is a clear setback in eu gender equality policy, and we clearly reject an antiquated view of women and the family, as expressed in the czech presidency's proposal. but, commissioner špidla, you mentioned that there are funding opportunities. they found that most eu countries are not meeting the targets, especially in the care of children under three years of age. but what initiative is the commission taking to make the member states more active? i'm afraid i didn't hear from you today. what further action will the commission take to encourage member states? they also indicated that there are possibilities for co-financing. are the member states making use of these possibilities? i want an answer to that. if not, why are they not being used and will the commission increase funding for the expansion of childcare facilities?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the qimonda company's bankruptcy is due to a massive price drop in obsolete dram chips. in fact, qimonda is months ahead of the competition in research into energy-saving chips. this is where the potential for innovation should be invested. we hope that the commission will concentrate on this. however, this may mean that not all jobs will be preserved. the commissioner has said it right: the european adaptation fund is here to help. but we have highly qualified employees in qimonda who, through a really selected, specifically tailored qualification, can find new jobs in new industries of the future. this has been proven by the employees who have moved into the solar industry. the qimonda case shows that it is also the commission's responsibility to train people for promising jobs, not just to throw them out. only a targeted investment, ecological restructuring of the economy and then a corresponding qualification of the personnel will give people hope and real chances for the future.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. it will not surprise you to hear that i am not satisfied with the answer you have given us, especially since we have already been trying to contact various commission representatives, including mr verheugen, for weeks, and have asked for clear answers. the commission has already had the opportunity to respond in a much more precise way and to say how it intends to carry out its responsibilities. for me, there are two aspects i would like to bring to this discussion: firstly, qimonda is in a position to provide the european union with a decisive technological advance in semiconductor technology and nanotechnology. secondly, qimonda has no competitors in europe, but certainly in asia, where subsidies of up to 70% are available - that is the crucial difference. thirdly, the closure of qimonda in a region such as saxony alone threatens to deprive the cooperative core of a network of some 40 000 employees. what do workers, their families and the people of the regions concerned expect from the union? they are particularly looking for a clear and immediate commitment from the commission to maintain the current european semiconductor and nanotechnology sites, to not lose this advantage for the future and to make statements on future research spending, especially for the eighth research framework programme. secondly, we expect the commission, the federal government and the saxon state government to support a necessary solution to prevent the cessation of production. there's not much time left, it's only a few days. already, top forces are leaving. the alternative to a solution would be to move future research technology to asia or to sell it for an apple and an egg. i do not think that this can be in the interests of the european union.
ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the day of the victims of terrorism, i would like to make a statement. today we are celebrating the fifth european day of the victims of terrorism. it is a day we must remember to remember all the people who have been innocent victims of terrorism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the deceased policeman was married and has children. this act of barbaric terrorism has once again torn apart a family and caused immeasurable suffering. and just yesterday at least ten people were killed in a suicide bombing in southern sri lanka, and more than twenty people are still in danger. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my outrage at these heinous attacks on innocent people and express my deepest condolences to the families of all those who have died. we will always remember you. today, as the european parliament, we speak out loud and clearly against the blind violence of terrorism. we condemn in the strongest terms the senseless destruction of human lives, the death of entire families because of fanatical and delusional beliefs which lead people to kill their fellow men and trample on human dignity. terrorism is a direct attack on freedom, human rights and democracy. terrorism is an attempt to destroy, by blind violence, our values, the values which unite us in the european union and in our member states. this terror is shocking us all. it is a tragedy that tears our hearts in deep pain, but it cannot and will not tear the foundations of our democratic society based on common values. terrorism is a crime that must not be allowed to go unpunished. terrorism is one of the greatest threats to the security, stability and democratic values of the international community, a direct attack on our citizens, on all of us. the european parliament is actively involved in the fight against terrorism and in supporting the victims of terrorist attacks, and we cannot repeat often enough that there can be no justification for terrorism. we must therefore act together in this fight on the basis of the rule of law and with the full force of the law. today in the european parliament our thoughts and solidarity are with all the victims of terrorism wherever they have been killed in the world. in memory of the victims of the real ira and the suicide bombing in sri lanka, may i ask you to observe a moment of silence in memory of the victims. (parliament adopted the resolution) ladies and gentlemen, thirty years ago, on 16 march 1979, the great european, jean monnet, one of the founding fathers of the european project, died. on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of his death, i would like to pay tribute to his lifelong work for european unity and his legacy at the beginning of this plenary session of the european parliament. today we commemorate the invaluable legacy of a man who, together with robert schuman, one of the masters of german-french reconciliation, took the first step towards the establishment of a common destiny among the peoples of europe based on peace, understanding, democracy and cooperation. today, at the beginning of the 21st century, the principles set out by jean monnet and the method used to implement them have lost none of their relevance. on the contrary, its validity seems obvious. the major challenges of globalisation, the economic and financial crisis and global warming must make europeans work ever closer together to defend our common values and interests in the world effectively. of course, jean monnet would welcome the progress made in the lisbon treaty towards a democratic and capable european union, adapted to the challenges of the 21st century. finally, it was the action committee for a united states of europe, set up by jean monnet, which proposed, among other things, direct elections to the european parliament. this dream has been realised in a remarkable way in the last thirty years since the death of jean monnet, with the establishment of the parliamentary dimension of the european union. we are all heirs to the great european, jean monnet. his work is permanent. it profoundly changed the relations between the european states and still affects the lives of all its citizens. on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the death of jean monnet, i would like to remind you of our task and our commitment for the future to continue with commitment the great but still unfinished work of unifying our continent that jean monnet began.
president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'between separate countries, each country's advantage is limited to the results of its own isolated efforts, to the gains it obtains over its neighbour, to the difficulties it succeeds in transferring to it. in our community, the advantage of each member is the effect of the prosperity of the whole". these are the words of jean monnet in 1954. they have not lost any of their relevance. this march, as president pöttering has just said, marks the 30th anniversary of his death in 1979. that is why i would like to pay tribute to this founding father of the europe we love, this great european whose legacy can only inspire us in these times of crisis. recently, and also to mark the 50th anniversary of the european commission, we decided to dedicate the college hall - the main hall of the commission - to the memory of jean monnet in a very simple but meaningful ceremony, during which i had the pleasure and honour of having beside me not only the president of the european parliament, hans-gert pöttering, but also the president-in-office of the european council, nicolas sarkozy. this is to say that we in the commission are proud of the immense legacy of jean monnet who, as the first president of the european coal and steel community, was in fact the first president of the institution which gave birth to our institution, the european commission, which is doing its best to keep alive the ideals of jean monnet, which are the ideals of all europeans who love peace, democracy and solidarity. (applause) i would like to thank
the next item is the joint debate on the council and commission statements: preparation of the european council (19 and 20 march 2009), the report by elisa ferreira on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on a european economic recovery programme [2008/2334 (ini) ] - (a6-0063/2009), the report by jan andersson on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states [com (2008) 0869 - c6-0050/2009 - 2008/0252 (cns) ] - (a6-0052/2009), the report by ev kirgeniilov on behalf of the committee on regional development on cohesion policy: investing in the real economy [2009/2009 (ini) ] - (a6-0075/2009).
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not with all due respect to you, mr vondra, it is unacceptable that in a situation such as we are in, the president of the council is not here. but it also shows how it relates to the current situation. (applause from the centre) we have heard many old phrases repeated now. we've been hearing all this for months now. you can develop text blocks from that. to you, my dear joseph, i would like to say, wonderful speech! if you keep talking like that, they'll think you've joined the kpf. it's just that now is the delivery time. now the necessary decisions must be taken. the european council must do more. the crisis is getting worse. jobs are being lost. we have 40 trillion euros worth of destroyed assets in the last six months! that means destroyed lives. that means jobs lost. that is to say, companies whose very existence is threatened. that is to say, economies whose very existence is threatened. and then there are the fine decisions in your council, 1.5 per cent of gdp this year or next year - three countries have achieved it so far, that is 24 countries have not. the united kingdom, germany and spain have achieved this - all three of them, moreover, under pressure from the social democrats and socialists - the others have not. you have to do more! you can tell that to your absent council president. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. solidarity between member states is imperative. solidarity is the central concept for us as social democrats, as socialists, in this situation. solidarity between people in societies, but also solidarity between states. solidarity within the eurozone and solidarity of the eurozone with non-eurozone countries. it is an important task for the commission to urge the states to exercise this solidarity. it is also important that the commission now provides the draft guidelines we need to control private equity and hedge funds, that we can make rating agencies transparent, that we can limit executive salaries, that tax havens can be closed. these initiatives must come now. we hope and rely on you to deliver this now. and if that cannot be done during this parliamentary term, then we shall come back with all these demands on the first day of the newly elected parliament. because when i hear the managers of citigroup, who have now made a profit again, when i hear mr ackermann of deutsche bank, who has now made a profit again in the first quarter, do you think, now that the state has rescued you, that you can continue as before? no, we must now ensure transparency and control so that what these gentlemen have done cannot happen again. the third point: when i hear you talk about the ppe-de, i am fascinated. that's wonderful. you're talking like we've been talking for years and you've always voted against it. now you've suddenly woken up. but if it is a question of whether we want amendment no 92 to be adopted here, that is, to do more, namely to give 1.5% of gross domestic product to all in investment, then the ppe-de does not agree! amendment no 92 is therefore the litmus test for you in the vote this afternoon. on the question of solidarity, you yourself have just said, joseph daul, on behalf of your absent group, that you were doing a great job. let us see if you agree with amendment no 102 which calls for solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's about tax havens. the men and women who serve us in the restaurants, the drivers who drive us here, the ground staff at the airport who unpack our bags, they are all taxpayers who have to pay their taxes for the bankruptcy of the big banking companies because governments and parliaments demand it of you. they are the ones who have to pay for the protective shields for banks and corporations. and the managers of these big banks, who are still - as at ing, where there are huge billions in deficits - getting millions of bonuses, should be able to hide their money in tax havens and not pay taxes! this is class warfare from above, which we do not want to participate in! the question of whether we decide today that the european parliament is against tax havens is therefore a crucial question for the credibility of the epp-ed and the liberals. you talk like the socialists, but we want to see if you vote like the socialists this afternoon. we have these three demands on the table and i say very clearly that if you do not agree to them, there will be no joint resolution on them. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. on the occasion of the fifth debate in this parliament on the successes or failures of the lisbon strategy, i would like to ask how it is possible that every year we have insisted that this is a successful strategy, that these successes have been taken into account, and suddenly, as if it were a natural event, we wake up in the deepest crisis of all time. it is not possible at all, and i believe that a dishonest assessment of the lisbon strategy is one of the problems we must get rid of. we in the european parliament called on the commission in the same debate a year ago to ensure the stability of the financial markets because we saw signs of crisis. the commission has not yet taken any action on this request. and now we have been debating, as martin schulz said, for months about the collapse of the system without actually making new rules binding. my analysis of this is a little different from that of my colleagues. i believe that many in the commission and also in national governments still believe that a deregulated market and strong players in that market can regulate themselves. if we limit ourselves to reinvigorating the banking system and providing public guarantees without defining a complete new architecture for the financial markets, we will fail and we will not get out of this crisis, we will not really recover. the debate on the link between climate policy, sustainability strategies and crisis management is equally inconsistent. we have also heard many encouraging speeches on this every year. looking at the current economic programmes at european and national level, one can only say: many big words, but the goal of sustainability, climate protection, resource efficiency is still not taken seriously. these programmes are not designed to make the european economy more sustainable, but are simply more of the past.
nigel farage, we might not always be happy in our european family, but you belong to the family as well.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. sometimes you can't believe what you hear. dear martin schulz, the initiative to regulate and enforce transparency rules for hedge funds and private equity comes from the judiciary committee. in 2006 we, as the epp-ed group in the legal affairs committee, became active on this issue and wanted rules. the legislative owninitiative report which we commissioned at the time was not produced because the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, who is known to be a member of the socialist group, broke the fence at the time over a completely unnecessary dispute over competence, with the result that it took us months, even years, to reach an agreement and then we were finally able to adopt the legislative owninitiative reports on the matter in september last year in the form of the rasmussen and lehne reports. the one who spoke out in the council against regulation in this area was gordon brown, who, as we know, is not a member of the epp-ed, but of your group. merkel and rasmussen have always been in favour of regulating these areas in all the debates both in the european council in recent years and in the g8. the problem is that the socialists - this is a fact - have always been a major obstacle in this european union to the inclusion of these unregulated areas. the opinion has only recently changed, and that has led to where we are today. that is part of the historical truth in this area. i would just like to say that there is a big difference between the rhetoric that is being used here and the reality of the past months and years, which is unfortunately the case. i would like to conclude by mentioning a number of similarities. the atmosphere between the political groups was very good today in the steering group when preparing the resolution on the lisbon process. we have therefore reached agreement on almost all the points and i think we have reached a good resolution. we should not be discussing this now, but rather making it clear that there is a common ground here. the people also expect us to act together in this crisis and not to oppose each other. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the key question in all the economic programmes now being put into place across europe is, of course, who gets the money in the end? will the banks be issued more blank cheques, even though rapid nationalisation would be much cheaper for the taxpayer? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the more money is squandered on such schemes, the more likely they are to fail and the more likely it is that the european economy will sink ever further into a very dangerous downward spiral. the long-standing policies of privatization, deregulation, liberalization -- these are the policies that have increasingly concentrated income in the top ten thousand, and it is these policies that are responsible for the current crisis that we are in today. if you think that you can overcome this crisis by continuing to pursue this policy with minor modifications, you have understood nothing. the exact opposite is needed. instead of buying up bad paper from the banks, taxpayers' money should be used to repair schools, hospitals and to rebuild the european economy in an ecological way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the best economic program of all would be a radical redistribution of income and wealth from the top down. the european starvation wage sector must be reduced rather than promoted. we need higher minimum wages, we need better social benefits in europe. we need taxes that ensure that the millionaires and profiteers of the past financial market party now also bear the immense losses that have been incurred, and not the vast majority of citizens who never benefited from the whole financial boom. i think that social justice is the only sensible thing to do in economic policy at the moment. it is the only way to break the devastating dynamics of the crisis.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we must seize the opportunities of the financial crisis and radically green the european economy and thus stop the climate crisis. the commission, however, is not taking advantage of this opportunity and is relying on a rescue package for outdated concepts, on road construction and the car industry. even investment in dilapidated economic structures is not excluded. this is not a forward-looking concept that takes away people's fears of existence. the facilitation of the use of the structural funds must be directed solely at sustainable, ecological investments. without such a climate check, there must be no increase in co-financing, in funds. i can also say, commissioners, that it is cynical of you to use the financial crisis to undermine the rights of workers. the posting of workers directive must strengthen workers' rights and must not contribute to their weakening. it is too late for a renewal in this direction. the new document does not provide for this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report by mr kirilov is essentially about amending three structural funds regulations 2007-2013 with the aim of improving the flow of funds and liquidity in the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the poorest countries in the world. member states are now encouraged to make full use of the possibilities for supporting investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing, for example, and to exploit these new investment opportunities in housing in general. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. and, ladies and gentlemen, it must be stressed that they are in no way contrary to free competition, social standards and the implementation of community environmental and climate protection requirements. it is now up to the member states to ensure that the funds provided by the european structural funds are co-financed in order to make full use of them. the report welcomes and supports the call for further simplification of the management and implementation of the funds. we are also looking forward to further proposals from the commission in this respect in 2009. finally, the importance of measures to support employment and enterprises in a successful economic recovery should be emphasised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. our amendments have been taken into account in committee to the greatest extent possible. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i congratulate you, mr kirilov.
i have to say, madam president, thank you for allowing me to make a personal comment at the end of this debate. i would like to make this point in response to the remarks made by my friend klaus-heiner lehne. i understand, klaus-heiner, that the crisis was caused by the socialists in europe. we knew this before, it is the old principle in germany: if the sun is shining in the morning, the cdu has done it; but if there's ice and snow, it must be the spd. we know that. but you can now show, dear colleagues from the epp-ed, whether what you announced, mr lehne, that i would say something wrong - it may be that i was wrong - is also true. so i ask you now, please tell us this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we hereby decide that the g20 summit will be called upon by the eu to close tax havens. do you agree or disagree with the ferreira report? the european union is a member of the eurozone, and the eurozone is a member of the eurozone. do you agree? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you agree? these are the socialist group's amendments nos 92, 102 and 113. if you agree, i apologize to you, mr lehne. if you do not agree, i have to tell you, you are the one who makes big speeches and then votes differently.
madam president, thank you very much. i'll make it really short. first of all, the socialists are not to blame for the crisis, nor has anyone in this chamber claimed that. we all know who is to blame, it has been extensively analysed. i have rightly pointed out, however, that the socialists in europe have also failed for years to establish clear rules on transparency in the fields of hedge funds and private equity, and i have given examples of this. that is a simple and moving fact. as regards the amendments which have been raised, i would like to refer to only one point, the subject of tax havens. we are in complete agreement. the question is where it will be agreed. we shall be discussing motion no 25 today in the resolution on the lisbon strategy, which deals with this very subject. the group will agree. i therefore have no problem with the questions raised.
i have to say, madam president, you can see from the great joy of the epp-ed group at my speech how beautiful it was when we voted. i would like to thank our colleague, mrs elisa ferreira, who has done a tremendous job in bringing this result about. i would also like to express my gratitude to mr hökmark and to mrs herzog, mr bullmann and mr lehne, who have made a tremendous contribution to the lisbon resolution of the same kind. but you can see from the reaction of the european people's party that there is some excitement. we thank you for voting with us on closing tax havens and solidarity with the member states. until a few minutes ago, it looked different. it is an honour for you to continue to support social democratization, and it is good for the european parliament, which has been moved to the left. (applause from the left and protest from the right)
i have to say, madam president, one item on the agenda. perhaps you could tell the house on the basis of which rule of procedure mr schulz has just taken the floor.
i am not going to go into detail. i should like to begin by asking for your understanding and also for your apology for the late start of the sitting, but i myself was informed only two minutes ago that i was being asked to make a statement on a very sad event, and i would like to make that statement with your agreement. it is with great sadness and indignation that we have learned today of the tragic incident in winnenden, baden-württemberg, in the federal republic of germany, where 15 people were killed in the albertville school. the bomber, a 17-year-old former student of this school, later took his own life. two police officers were also injured in a shooting at a local supermarket in pursuit of the gunman. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my deepest sympathy and solidarity with the families and all the relatives of the victims. the victims are innocent young students and three teachers from the school. this tragedy comes just six months after a similarly horrific school shooting in kauhajoki, finland. it is our duty as responsible politicians in the european union and in all the member states to do our utmost to ensure that such acts can be foreseen and prevented in good time - if we can influence them. we are also shocked by another tragic incident in alabama, u.s.a., where a gunman shot at least ten people before turning his gun on himself. i would like to express once again, on behalf of all of you, our deepest sympathy and solidarity with the victims and their families. i'd be grateful if you'd remember the murdered. (parliament adopted the resolution)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful to you, commissioner, but what is happening here is an intolerable mess, waste and incompetence on an intolerable scale. i therefore appeal not only to the commission but also to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on budgetary control to look very closely at this matter. i am happy that the czech presidency of the council is here. because bavaria and the czech republic have exactly the same security interests, and we have seen that despite all the fears about the opening of the border, the security situation has improved dramatically and fundamentally since the opening of the border through perfect police cooperation. this can be a model for other parts of europe. for this i would like to thank the czech republic from the bavarian point of view. we hope that the schengen information system will finally be able to function in a global manner and not be limited to a few exemplary bilateral examples.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me introduce the debate on the progress reports on the three countries croatia, turkey and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. let me begin with croatia. your report rightly states that croatia made good progress over the past year. since the start of the negotiations, 22 chapters – out of 35 – have been opened, of which seven have been provisionally closed. the presidency will continue to take forward the negotiations. two accession conferences in particular are planned: at deputy level in the coming weeks, and at ministerial level in june. your report rightly highlights the importance of reaching a settlement to the outstanding border dispute with slovenia. i would like to assure this parliament that the presidency will continue to make every effort to help resolve this issue and, in this context, we fully support the ongoing efforts of the commissioner, olli rehn, to find a solution to allow us to continue with the accession negotiations. we had a lunch just before the sitting to discuss this in depth. concerning the last development, we welcome croatia’s decision announced on monday that it accepts the mediation proposed by the group of experts proposed by olli rehn. we are encouraging both slovenia and croatia to work constructively in order to find a permanent and mutually acceptable solution as a matter of urgency, because it should not be just a prescription for more delays. apart from this important issue, further progress in the wider negotiations depends, above all, on croatia itself. the necessary political, economic, legislative and administrative reforms have to be completed, and it has to meet its obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement. the implementation of the revised accession partnership is also important in preparing for further integration within the european union. the council considers that the indicative and conditional road map drawn up by the commission in its 2008 progress report is a useful tool. it will assist croatia in taking the necessary steps to reach the final stage of the negotiations. that said, despite good progress, much remains to be done. let me pick out some of the key areas where further progress is needed, beginning with judicial reform. the eu has made it very clear that the establishment of an independent, impartial, reliable, transparent and efficient judicial system is essential. it is a condition for strengthening the rule of law and the proper implementation of the acquis. a professional, accountable, transparent and independent public administration is also key. significant legislative reforms have been achieved in these two areas, but we need to see how they will work in practice. the same is true of the fight against corruption and organised crime, as outlined in your report. the powers and resources of the office for the prevention of corruption and organised crime have been strengthened. this is also the case with the criminal courts investigating cases in this area. the main issue now is to make sure that the expected results are delivered. the full implementation of the anti-corruption programme and action plan is key to addressing this serious problem. the union has also underlined that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty), including access to documents, is essential. we are following very closely developments in this area and we invite the croatian authorities to ensure that full cooperation with icty is maintained. we welcome the recent agreement concerning the missing documents and urge croatia to deliver on it. on refugee return, we note that the implementation of the convalidation decision for validating pension rights has begun and information on the changes to the rules has been made available to the returnee community. on housing care, the 2007 cases have been resolved, but the 2008 benchmark has not yet been met. work on ensuring the sustainability of refugee return must continue. this also goes for legislation to improve the rights of minorities. you have rightly highlighted the issue of regional cooperation in your report. efforts to improve good neighbourly relations must continue. let me now turn to the issue of turkey. negotiations with turkey continued during 2008, and a total of four chapters – as is almost a tradition – were opened during the course of the year. despite the eu’s encouragement to turkey to step up its reform efforts, 2008 did not deliver the expected level of reform. further work on the political criteria remains key. significant efforts will be needed in a number of areas, as highlighted by the council in its conclusions of 8 december 2008 and in the commission’s 2008 progress report. this is an issue to which you have also drawn attention in your report. at the same time the presidency welcomes the recent positive steps undertaken by turkey, including the recently adopted national programme for the adoption of the acquis and the appointment of the new chief negotiator. it is important that these commitments are now translated into real and tangible actions. we would like to take this opportunity to stress the strategic importance of turkey. the presidency shares the opinion of parliament that turkey needs to be commended for the progress achieved in the field of energy. we continue to assess ways forward in this crucial area, particularly in terms of full support to the nabucco pipeline project. as far as turkey’s progress to accession is concerned, we would like to highlight that progress in the area of freedom of expression is essential for overall progress in the negotiations. besides the welcome amendments to article 301 of the criminal code, which have had a positive effect, there are still a number of legal provisions that remain in place which could lead to restrictions in this area. website bans, often disproportionate in scope and duration, remain a cause for concern. adequate legal solutions are also required to ensure that religious pluralism is brought in line with european standards. a comprehensive anti-corruption strategy needs to be developed. we are concerned also at the increased number of reported cases of torture and ill-treatment, in particular outside official places of detention. the law on the duties and legal powers of the police, amended in 2007, must be monitored closely in order to prevent violations of human rights. the ratification of the protocol to the convention against torture is vital. as far as the south-east is concerned, we welcome the announcement of the guidelines and general content of the south-east anatolia project. we now await concrete steps leading to the economic, social and cultural development of the region. this must include addressing longstanding issues such as the return of internally displaced persons or the question of village guards. as far as eu-turkey relations are concerned, it is clear that turkey needs to fulfil its obligation of full, non-discriminatory implementation of the additional protocol. this is an important issue, as highlighted in your report, and should be addressed as soon as possible, as it clearly affects the pace of the accession negotiations. issues covered by the declaration of 21 september 2005 will continue to be followed up, and progress is urgently awaited. furthermore, turkey also needs to commit itself unequivocally to good neighbourly relations and to the peaceful settlement of disputes. despite all these difficulties, progress continues in a range of areas. work is currently under way on chapter 16 on taxation and chapter 19 on social policy and employment. despite the fact that negotiations are becoming more complex as they advance, the czech presidency is committed to making progress on those chapters where progress is really possible. moreover, the presidency puts emphasis on reaching progress in chapter 15 on energy, in compliance with energy issues, because it is one of our priorities. finally, let me turn to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. it is a dynamic country with considerable potential. at the same time, it faces a number of significant challenges. both these points are brought out admirably in your report. there is indeed much in the report with which the council is in agreement. your report places considerable emphasis on the question of a date for the opening of accession negotiations. you also rightly highlight the wish of all sides to find an early and mutually acceptable solution to the issue of the name. as far as recent developments are concerned, the early elections in june 2008 were held in several stages following significant problems both during the run-up, and on the original election day on 1 june. osce/odihr/council of europe noted that there was a ‘failure to prevent violent acts’ in the run-up to the elections, and that the elections did not live up to a number of key international standards. as a result, we underlined to the government and all political players the importance of addressing these core points in the run-up to the presidential and local elections due in a few days time. it is our impression that this message has been heard and that significant efforts are being taken to prevent any disruption. we shall see whether these efforts bear fruit. the commission’s 2008 progress report is helpful. we have taken note of the blueprint drawn up by the government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. it is a detailed text which represents a serious effort to take on board the commission’s recommendations. against the background of the region as a whole, the document and the work that has gone into it should be viewed positively. the internal cohesion of this multiethnic state is, of course, key to its future development. i would, therefore, like to endorse the importance which this parliament attaches to the ohrid framework agreement this has been pivotal in drawing the country back from conflict and in assisting in its path towards greater european integration. on visa liberalisation, we are currently at an evaluation stage, and i would not wish to prejudge the outcome. on a personal basis, i would simply say that i have much sympathy for the hopes and aspirations of ordinary citizens of the former yugoslavia who would like to be able to travel freely again. but the essential precondition remains the preparedness of the country to fulfil the specific criteria set out in the visa liberalisation road map. personally, i hope that positive developments can be achieved soon. this brings me to one of the key points in your report and resolution. the czech presidency is fully committed to the european perspective for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. further progress in this direction is achievable. but the key objectives of the association partnership have to be fulfilled and we need evidence of well-conducted elections, in contrast to what happened in 2008. these points will be evaluated by the commission in its next progress report. we look forward to this report, and to further developments in skopje.
member of the commission. − mr president, today’s debate provides a very good opportunity to review the accession process in the three candidate countries. let me start with croatia. mr swoboda’s draft resolution addresses the main challenges which face croatia today. i fully agree with deputy prime minster vondra that the accession negotiations with croatia have generally been going well since they started in october 2005, and that is why in november 2008 the commission proposed an indicative road map for reaching the final stage of accession negotiations by the end of 2009, provided croatia fulfils the necessary conditions. on this too i share the analysis of your rapporteur and mr vondra as regards the future challenges such as judicial reform, the fight against organised crime and corruption, and reform of the ship-building sector and bringing it into line with our state aid regime and competition policy. unfortunately, the accession negotiations with croatia are currently stalled because of the border issue. we have worked with the czech presidency on this matter, and i very much appreciate the support of the presidency in our efforts to find a viable way forward. although this is a bilateral issue, it has become a european problem, and the commission therefore took the initiative to offer european facilitation to solve the border issue and allow croatia’s accession negotiations to continue, assuming that both sides found such facilitation useful. that was the message i took to both ljubljana and zagreb in january. i have since then been discussing the terms of such facilitation with both foreign ministers – most recently in a trilateral meeting yesterday evening – following the decisions of both governments on our initiative. i welcome the endorsement in principle from both countries on such european facilitation, which would be provided by a senior expert group chaired by president martti ahtisaari. during our talks yesterday we explored the possibilities for agreeing on the specific terms of facilitation. we agreed to continue the talks in the near future. this is thus still work in progress. let me point out that, in its efforts, the commission has relied on the negotiating framework, which is the very foundation of the eu accession process for croatia, agreed by croatia and all the eu member states, including slovenia. by adopting and agreeing the negotiating framework, both croatia and slovenia agreed to resolve any border dispute in line with the principle of peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with the united nations charter. the un charter states, and i quote, because this is of particular importance: ‘the parties to any dispute [...] shall [...] seek a solution by negotiation, enquiry, mediation, conciliation, arbitration, judicial settlement, resort to regional agencies or arrangements, or other peaceful means of their own choice’. there are two equally important conclusions to this statement in the un charter. first, the parties can choose any one of the methods outlined in the un charter. the commission’s initiative is without doubt among these methods. second, whatever method in the un charter they agree to choose, they have to agree between the two of them. i sincerely hope that this will happen sooner, rather than later. the commission’s initiative provides a very solid basis for this, and a viable way forward. to sum up, the commission’s objective is indeed to solve the border issue and in parallel to unblock the eu accession negotiations of croatia so that croatia is able to meet its target timeline of concluding the technical negotiations by the end of 2009. i welcome ms oomen-ruijten’s carefully balanced resolution on turkey, and support the presidency’s efforts to open chapters which are technically ready to be opened. we have unfortunately witnessed a certain slow-down of political reforms in turkey in recent years. however – and i agree with your rapporteur on this – since the end of last year and the beginning of this year there have been certain positive developments, such as the launch of a new television channel broadcasting in kurdish and the establishment of a parliamentary committee on gender equality. moreover, the new ‘national programme for the adoption of the acquis’ and the appointment of a new full-time chief negotiator are also steps forward. i am also encouraged by the fact that prime minister erdogan and the leader of the main opposition party, deniz baykal, signalled their commitment to turkey’s eu accession process during their recent visits to brussels. i hope these developments will result in a strong political and societal consensus to pursue eu reforms with renewed vigour and energy. this is connected with freedom of expression, which is a core european value. an open and transparent relation between the press and public authorities is indeed elementary to the quality of the democratic debate in any country. this is particularly true for a country like turkey which is going through a difficult process of transformation and reform. the commission is therefore very closely following the ensured existence of press freedom in turkey. it should be genuinely respected, as it is the very foundation of any open society, and thus of the continued democratic transformation of turkey. i shall say a few words on cyprus. there is a unique chance this year to reunite the island and bring to an end this long-standing conflict on european soil. it is essential that turkey proactively support the ongoing settlement talks between the leaders of the two communities in cyprus. concerning the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i thank mr meijer and the shadow rapporteurs for a well-balanced resolution. i share their regret that, three years after the country achieved candidate status, accession negotiations have not yet started. the key outstanding condition is the ability to meet international standards for the conduct of free and fair elections. this is a core requirement for compliance with the copenhagen political criteria, and the presidential and municipal elections in march and april will therefore be a moment of truth. i share the positive assessment in your draft resolution on the progress made by skopje in implementing the road map towards visa liberalisation. the commission remains committed to making a proposal to the council on visa-free travel in 2009, once the conditions have been met by each country in the region. i know how important this is for the ordinary citizens of the western balkans. i shall summarise by saying that, for the sake of stability and peace, liberty and democracy, we shall continue our work for a gradual, managed accession of the three candidate countries, despite the very challenging economic times. i trust that parliament will also continue to support this very valuable common goal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not in this enlargement debate we must correct three crucial errors. firstly, turkey is not a european country but is in asia minor. it is, as the president-in-office of the council rightly said, a strategically important partner, and that is why we need a strategic partnership and not accession to the eu. secondly, the problems affecting macedonia have nothing to do with the alleged failure of democracy there, mr commissioner - i was there for the elections, they were exemplary, there were only problems with a tiny minority within the minority - but they have to do with this unspeakable name issue which is being misused for bilateral blackmail. thirdly! croatia is already ready to join the european union. we could easily conclude the negotiations this year, as the european parliament has repeatedly called for and will probably ask for again tomorrow. the fact that it is not yet ready is due solely to a blockade by slovenia in the council. i would like to ask you, mr president-in-office of the council and mr commissioner, to find a sensible solution to this blockade and to ensure that it is finally lifted. the border issue is exactly the same as it was when we took slovenia in. we cannot accept one country, despite the open question, and not the other. i therefore call on the european union to support slovenia and croatia in finding a sensible solution to the border issue, but at the same time to open all the negotiating chapters. the first has nothing to do with the second, and the opening of the negotiating chapters is the precondition for us to reach a reasonable result this year with an excellent and exemplary candidate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's spokeswoman said on monday that this could be done on the basis of international law and jurisprudence. i would like to ask you whether you think that this formulation is appropriate to reach a compromise between the two sides. i 'd like to use that wording ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by saying that i am speaking on behalf of my group on turkey and not on my own behalf. the development in turkey is a cause for concern for liberals and democrats. three years of not only too little progress in the pace of reform, but in some cases even regression. as commissioner rehn rightly pointed out, freedom of the press is a core value of the european union. in a country that wants to join the eu, respect for the freedom of the press must be above all doubt. what we're seeing is something else. critical journalists have difficulty accrediting themselves. the new owner of atv has many questions to answer, there are calls from the highest echelons to boycott certain media, the dohan group is being hit with an arbitrary tax penalty of 400 million euros. this is an arbitrary measure which brings us to the question of the rule of law, which is as important to liberals as freedom of the press. the rule of law must also be guaranteed. we are deeply concerned by reports of increasing cases of torture and ill-treatment in police custody, especially when they take place outside official prisons or police stations. but even if they were, they would of course cause us concern. symbolic or purely pragmatic measures such as the adoption of a new programme or the appointment of a new chief negotiator are welcome when considered from a purely practical point of view. but they are not enough to revive the pace of reform. the liberal and democratic group believes that turkey, regardless of its prospects for accession, must reform its economy and society, its politics and its constitution, in its own interests and in the interests of its people. let me say one more thing about this debate: i feel that this debate is like a merry-go-round, sometimes with a turkish, sometimes with a croatian, sometimes with a macedonian pony. i think we should structure this debate differently in the future. i would be grateful if we had them in brussels instead of strasbourg.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, on behalf of my group, the green group and the european free alliance, i should like to welcome the deputy prime minister of macedonia who is here today. secondly, i should like to thank the czech presidency of the council, and in particular prime minister topolánek, who yesterday, firstly, pointed out that the name dispute between macedonia and greece is a bilateral matter and must not have any repercussions, and secondly, who spoke in favour of macedonia's accession to nato as soon as possible and thus of calling on greece to withdraw its veto. it is perhaps a little arrogant at times to talk about candidates for membership. that is why i would like to bring up the subject of personal responsibility. we are talking here about the prospects and shortcomings of the candidate countries, but on the other hand we have very important political forces, such as the conservatives in germany, who want to insist that only croatia should be admitted and that no other countries should follow. if this becomes the majority opinion in the next european parliament, we will destroy the peace building in europe which we have been financing with great vigour since the balkan wars. we are losing credibility and would be putting european credibility in the background. i ask everyone to resist. we believe that croatia and slovenia will be able to do without double standards and without vetoes, that the border disputes can be put aside, and we want to start negotiations with macedonia as soon as possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. croatia is the first country whose accession to the european union has been rightly set at a very high level, following the experience of the last two enlargements to include romania and bulgaria. the benchmarks and progress achieved by the croatian side are therefore also particularly to be commended. the outstanding judicial reforms mentioned are addressed. the full cooperation with the hague war crimes tribunal on the handing over of missing documents is on track. the slovenes are involved in bilateral border disputes. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. before 2004, these were not european border disputes, they were border disputes that were not taken into account: the un was not called upon to settle this dispute then, but it is now. if slovenia does not continue to obstruct the opening of the necessary negotiating chapters because of these bilateral border disputes, which were not an obstacle to its accession to the european union, the accession negotiations between croatia and the eu could be concluded by the end of this year. the candidate country macedonia has also made great progress. if the elections at the end of march meet international standards, the eu would finally have to set a date for the opening of accession negotiations. the painful bilateral name dispute between macedonia and greece should not tempt the latter to veto. it is therefore to be hoped that the two eu member states, greece and slovenia, will remember their own situation before joining the eu and draw the necessary conclusions to behave in a european and fair manner towards their neighbours. if croatia and macedonia achieve the objectives i have described this year - also thanks to their neighbours - it would send a positive signal to the rest of the western balkans that the eu is serious about the commitment given in thessaloniki to the accession of all the western balkans, which the cdu supports, dear mrs beer.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, we have had a very long but important debate here today. this is a crucial year in the accession process for croatia and for the whole of the western balkan region and we certainly attach importance to and welcome parliament’s continued support in bringing croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the western balkans closer to the eu. much has been said about the lack of progress in turkey regarding its reform effort. we therefore welcome the reaffirmed commitment of turkey towards its eu path, as mr erdogan said, and invite her to take the opportunity in 2009 to prove this commitment and make further progress in its path towards the eu. turkey has to deliver on long-awaited reforms. the continuing support of the european parliament throughout the process is significant, in particular given the challenges ahead. i will have the opportunity of meeting the turkish negotiator tomorrow in prague. at the same time, we should not take lightly the strategic importance of turkey, in particular in the current turbulent times, and nor should we forget our previous commitments. as far as i know, president obama, during his visit to europe, may visit turkey as a kind of model muslim country. i think that this is not the time for europeans to give up in our engagement with turkey. i think that joost lagendijk, rightly, said this. concerning the border dispute between croatia and slovenia, i was listening carefully to what hannes swoboda, istván szent-iványi and many others said, so let me just repeat that we as the presidency welcome the fact that both slovenia and croatia have now agreed to pursue their work on commissioner rehn’s initiative concerning this dispute. we fully support this initiative and we are concerned that it has not generated any fruitful outcome yet, regarding the specific terms of facilitation. we note that time is running out, and the presidency is keen to ensure concrete progress in the negotiations based on the work already done. we are therefore considering the possibilities for enhancing our support for the commissioner’s initiative in the near future. we were just discussing this over lunch. concerning the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, bernd posselt among others said that we should support the effort of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, and i think he is right. i shall just mention that the czech prime minister topolánek visited skopje yesterday and reaffirmed our commitment to the european aspiration of this country.
member of the commission. − madam president, i want to thank members for a very constructive, substantive and responsible debate, and i would like to make just a few points concerning your speeches. first, it is clear that all policy-making in europe and in the world is overshadowed by the very challenging context of today, because of the financial crisis and the economic recession that our citizens are feeling and, of course, this is dominating the minds of our leaders in the european union. still, it is absolutely essential that we as the european union maintain our commitment to the eu perspective on south-eastern europe, and this has been the expressed political will here today in the european parliament, which i welcome and appreciate. secondly, concerning cyprus, my friend, mr wiersma, said that i must be an optimist. i think something was lost in translation, even though i thought i was speaking english – maybe with a somewhat ethnic accent from eastern finland! however, i do not consider myself either an optimist or a pessimist, but rather i am usually a realist as regards the analysis of things and determined as regards those issues that i can really influence. here, i think that it is absolutely essential that we support the talks of the two leaders and of the two communities that are going on at the moment, so that we can seize the opportunity in 2009 to achieve a comprehensive settlement and, of course, we expect turkey will contribute to a favourable political climate to achieve such a settlement. from the point of view of the european union, it is important to ensure that any solution is in line with the union’s founding principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. in other words, the eu can support any such solution that creates a united cyprus respecting the principles on which the eu was founded and able to carry the obligations of eu membership. this clearly implies a bi-zonal, bi-communal federation with political equality, as defined by the relevant resolutions of the un security council. finally, concerning croatia, i thank the speakers for their support for the commission’s initiative on mediation – an initiative that is based on international law, and here i refer to both the un charter and the negotiating framework between the eu and croatia. i can only underline that, whatever method is chosen, it will need to be a bilateral agreement between the two countries, slovenia and croatia. we are working on that in order to facilitate such an agreement. i sincerely wish that you can support the commission’s initiative in your resolution so as not to create a situation where we would have to return to square one, because this is the only realistic and viable way forward. let me conclude by saying that i sincerely believe that it is still possible for croatia to reach the ambitious target of concluding the accession negotiations by the end of 2009, provided that the negotiations can proceed soon. that is why i encourage both countries to agree rapidly so as to solve the border issue and without delay unblock croatia’s eu accession negotiations. i should like to thank you for your support for this initiative.
madam president, i have a specific question for the commissioner, namely whether he agrees or even proposes that the principle of equity, as provided for in the commission's statement, be replaced by international law and jurisprudence. (interruption by the president)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, i fully agree with you that we need a political solution and not a military solution in sri lanka. i have been to the country several times as a member of the south asia delegation. i know how much people long for peace after 25 years of violence. i must also say that in such a war the ltte would have to make a move, which unfortunately they do not. you have mentioned this, and on 23 february the foreign ministers again urged this organization to lay down its arms and put an end to terrorism. imagine any eu member state that has been ruled by terror for 25 years. that there is, of course, much chaos and disorder is easy to imagine. i am very much in favour of the tamil cause, but i am equally strongly opposed to the ltte's methods. for weeks now, we've been hearing that in this little patch of land, over 100,000 people are being taken captive. reuters reported yesterday that eyewitnesses reported people being shot trying to leave the zone. so here is a call to the ltte and the forces behind the ltte to stop these practices. the game is over. this can't go on. of course, civilians in this war zone are subject to a barrage of fire from both sides. we must also appeal to the government to respect international law and allow humanitarian action. it is the fundamentalism on both sides that is taking a lot of lives. i think we should also prepare for the post-war order. you said it yourself: the 13th amendment to the sri lankan constitution, which provides for decentralisation in the sense of the administration of the territories by the people who live there, needs to be implemented, and the eu can provide valuable assistance there. i am sure that you in the commission and we in the eu are ready to do so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. i think our main focus must now be on the fate of the civilian population, and the only thing that can really be said about that is what the council of ministers said on 23 february: we need an immediate ceasefire. the eu calls for an immediate ceasefire. i am against adding the word 'temporary'. otherwise the humanitarian catastrophe you have mentioned will continue. i also think that in this situation, where people are trapped in that zone, we have to turn against all acts of violence that prevent people from leaving the combat zone. in this situation, i don't care whether the violence is carried out by the ltte or by government soldiers. our attention must be directed to the people themselves. perhaps i can make a few remarks to the colleagues from the former colonial powers who are leaving our group. i hope my impression, which has been imposed on me a little bit, that there is also a certain domestic political motivation to strike so unilaterally only at the ltte, is wrong. i hope you're not targeting a particular segment of the electorate.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on international trade. the commission has already done so. i'm glad we have this conversation. we have very close relations with both countries and i would like to make a special point about mexico. we in the committee on international trade have made it a point in our debate to deal with matters which concern our sector. we are particularly keen to intensify free trade agreements once again. if you look at the figures, we can see that our trade has certainly increased in recent years, but there is still considerable demand and we still have considerable restrictions on market access, also on the european side. i would really ask you, commissioner, to do everything you can to analyse the situation once again with your colleagues in charge and, where there are problems, to really remove these restrictions. it is absolutely pointless that we should be talking about strategic partnerships with such important countries in latin america on the one hand and then on the other hand still have to deal with very absurd market restrictions. sometimes they make sense, but usually they're really worthless. i would be very grateful to you and to the committee if we could solve this once. the second point that is close to our hearts is that we are really giving mexico the place it deserves in the global international relations. this is of course particularly true of this still very fragile constellation within the g20. we have written a letter from the delegation, which we have also sent to you, in which we ask that mexico be at the g20 table and that this not be a temporary phenomenon but be made permanent. i would like to ask you to make sure that when the mexican presidency is held, when mr guadarrama, mr buganza and mr green come, someone from your area of responsibility will be present at our delegation meeting on 30 and 31 march, so that they will really feel that the commission values the delegation and its visit.
i have to say, madam president, on march 10, 1959, the tibetan people were subjected to unspeakable suffering at the hands of the chinese. 60,000 lost their lives, hundreds of thousands were arrested, deported, tortured in the months that followed. a year ago, the violence escalated again. over 200 tibetans died, some by targeted gunfire, and now - just after the 50th anniversary - monasteries have been sealed off from the outside world, access roads controlled, soldiers and security personnel put on alert to quell protests. we have no news of any possible riots. what is the response to this show of force? silence in the media. the dalai lama has called on his people to maintain the path of nonviolence. his call for dialogue has not been well received in beijing. when the dalai lama's envoys presented concrete steps towards autonomy in a memorandum, it was rejected by the head of state hu jintao. he said, "we need a wall against separatism". this idea, which is a provocation, was further quashed by the planned forced introduction of a holiday for tibetans: march 28th is to be the day of the emancipation of the serfs! that is the bitter reality. the european parliament raised its flag the day before yesterday. in the plenary we placed a large number of tibetan flags on the tables and showed solidarity with the suffering tibetans. there were peaceful protests in all parts of the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the resolution we have adopted today is clear. the memorandum must be the basis for further negotiations. it's a document for genuine autonomy within the chinese constitution. the isolation of tibet must end for the residents, for the tourists, for the journalists. we need an answer to 600 tibetans in prison!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we christian democrats undoubtedly recognize the sovereignty of the people's republic of china over its territory, including tibet. but at the same time we reject the chinese view that any statement by the european union on human rights in china is an unacceptable interference in china's internal affairs. but according to a modern understanding of human rights and international law, which china will hopefully share soon, the world community is called upon to take care of human rights in all parts of the world, especially in very extreme cases. how else could an international criminal court deal with crimes against humanity in the countries of the former yugoslavia and pass judgments if it did not have the right to intervene in the interests of human rights? in this respect, the people's republic of china and its government should recognize that the discussion of human rights such as freedom of assembly, freedom of independent press, freedom of religion, rights of cultural minorities in tibet and other parts of china is not an unwarranted interference. she has to face this discussion. the main concern today is simply the demand - and i do not understand mr ford's request for that reason, but he has always been more on the side of the chinese government - that the people's republic of china and its government resume talks with the dalai lama as the leader of a large part of the tibetan population. in fact - my colleague has already mentioned this - last year the government held these talks and then called it off after the olympics. so it is possible that these talks were held during the olympic games to distract us. we're not going to be distracted, glyn ford. we will keep bringing this issue up and we call on the chinese government to engage in genuine, serious talks between the chinese government and the dalai lama. because human rights in tibet continue to be violated, and we will have to make sure that this changes.
the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. other i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make the following proposal, in agreement with the socialists and the rapporteur, on paragraph 1 (h): 'stresses that the key documents vital for the prosecution of general ante gotovina, mladen markać and ivan čermak should be handed over by the responsible authorities;' the rest is the same.
before the final vote, which is always a very uneasy one, i should like to say something: this is the last plenary session in which our secretary-general, mr harald rømer, will be taking part. i have already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to conclude by saying to the house: thank you very much, harald rømer, for your decades of service to the european parliament! (applause from the centre and the right) (calling) the european parliament is a worthy institution for those who have worked for it for 36 years. thank you very much, harald rømer! (calling) to those who are calling this in, i just wish your parents hadn't seen you behave like this. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very happy about this and i would also like to thank mr swoboda very much for the fact that this important report was adopted with a very large consensus. i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to my slovenian colleagues, for whom and whose country i have great sympathy, to find a way back to continuing slovenia's great achievements in european integration. it was the first new member state to adopt the euro, and the first to join schengen. slovenia is a pioneer in european integration. i hope that slovenia will also be the pioneer of croatia's eu accession in its national interest.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. turkey has made almost no progress in the crucial areas of human rights, minority rights, freedom of religion, freedom of expression, and has even seen some setbacks in recent days. the commission is nevertheless obliged to give a positive opinion because it is an important strategic partner. that's true, but that's a matter of foreign policy. we need strategic partnerships, that's not a criteria for entry. i have nevertheless voted in favour of the report because the socialist proposal to fix the report on accession was rejected. this report is a great success and a breakthrough for us because it explicitly avoids setting accession as an objective and because it speaks of a process open to results, which takes a long time and whose outcome is still unclear. we would have preferred a clear no to full membership, but this wording is close to that and is therefore a great success for those who think that partnership with turkey is a matter of foreign policy yes accession no!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report sends an important signal to a country which plays a stabilising role, which has an exemplary minority legislature, which has a broad majority government in which all nationalities are represented, and which has taken a clear european course under the leadership of prime minister gruevski. i am glad to have voted for this report, and i think we must highlight two signals in particular: firstly, we want the council and the commission to decide this year when the accession negotiations should begin, and secondly, we will not tolerate any bilateral interference, especially as regards this grotesque name issue. the country is called macedonia, whether some like it or not, and we must finally begin to pave the way for this country to europe.
in writing. the sri lankan army is acting with the most brutal severity in its war against the ltte, with no regard for civilians. civilians are constantly killed or injured in attacks by the sri lankan army. hundreds of thousands are trapped, many without access to humanitarian aid. the icrc speaks of "one of the most catastrophic situations they have ever experienced". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. this is something that all international organizations and governments should demand. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to meet its commitments to the united nations. this would have been support for the sri lankan government's brutal war policy and a free hand for attacks on the civilian population. i voted for the resolution because the majority of the european parliament - including the epp-ed group - did not, fortunately, follow the inhuman policies of charles tannock and the british conservatives and voted for the demand for an immediate ceasefire. by placing the ltte on the eu terrorist list, the eu took a unilateral position and de facto released the ltte for firing. the negotiations then under way, mediated by norway, were thus torpedoed and could only be conducted with greater difficulty outside the eu.
in writing. - i welcome the clear majority for the resolution on turkey. we must make it clear to the turkish government that the years of stagnation in reforms have consequences. freedom of expression and of the press in particular are suffering severe setbacks. this is evident, not least, in the turkish government's recent crackdown on the dogan media group. the demand for the imposition of huge fines for alleged tax evasion is disproportionate and amounts to media censorship! there is no progress in religious freedom despite the new foundation law. religious minorities continue to be discriminated against and harassed. i am glad that my proposal to call on turkey to take back the planned expropriation of the monastery of st gabriel in tur abdin has been taken into account in the motion for a resolution. we also call on turkey to respect eu environmental and natural standards and the rights of the people affected by the dams of the 'south anatolia project'. turkey is not on track to meet the copenhagen criteria, but is moving further and further away from our basic values. the turkish government really wants to put the republic on a new, democratic foundation? the trial of the ak party and the opaque ergenekon procedure paint a picture of a deeply divided society, unwilling and unable to face up to the european challenge. it is therefore time to finally talk concretely about the privileged partnership between the eu and turkey!
a writer. - the proposal for a regulation (doc. i have been following the situation in the philippines since the ill-fated marcoses took power. since then, this great island nation has experienced great ups and downs, ups and downs of dictatorship and attempts at freedom, economic crises and developments towards a market economy, which have been drowned out again and again in a swamp of corruption, mismanagement and, unfortunately, authoritarian excesses. if you look at the map, you see that this island kingdom is of supreme strategic importance. it controls, like indonesia, some of the central and crucial sea lanes for our economy, but also for the economy of asia. that is why stability in the region is very important. and that is why we must make it clear to those in power that only through dialogue, only through the rule of law, only through strengthening democracy, infrastructure, and small and medium-sized enterprises can this country finally find long-term stability. otherwise, it will be threatened with disintegration, and separatist movements, movements within individual island groups, religious and cultural movements that are opposed to each other will threaten the unity of the country. this is why it is a key issue for the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we are in a very complicated situation. it is neither impenetrable nor surprising that we should wait for developments to take place. there has been a war against the people of south sudan for decades. there is a humanitarian catastrophe here, caused by the genocidal policies of mr al-bashir, and there are millions of displaced persons who have been fighting for their lives, not for weeks, but for months and years. this is the one side. on the other hand, it is right that we are dealing with a situation in which we cannot put the humanitarian organizations in danger in their work. we must take their concerns and needs seriously. so which way should we go? we must be guided by the facts. the fact is that mr al-bashir is very specific in applying this pressure on the humanitarian organisations. anyone who has seen his demonstrative performance, his mocking dance in this action against the humanitarian organizations and in his demonstrations, knows that he is deliberately provoking. we must not be provoked. but we must not just suddenly be silent, as some colleagues want. that wouldn't impress the dictator either. i therefore propose that we remove the three paragraphs 2, 5 and 6 from the resolution and adopt the rest as planned.
i have to say, madam president, the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. i myself have been in darfur, i have also been in neighbouring chad with josé ribeiro e castro, and therefore i can fully support what he has said. it is a plight, and this plight has been exacerbated by the fact that, because of the expulsion of the ngos, only about 60% of the humanitarian aid can be delivered. the catastrophe can grow, can escalate. three million people depend on our help. i therefore believe, madam president, commissioner, that paragraph 4 of our resolution is particularly important, in which we call on the only major power in the world, the people's republic of china, which has influence there, to persuade the sudanese government to withdraw the expulsion of the ngos.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 12 march 2009. the commission i have the honour to welcome, for the first time on my left, the new secretary-general of the european parliament, mr klaus welle, and to wish him every success in his work. (applause from the centre) on my right is david harley, assistant secretary general. he embodies the continuity of the general secretariat. good luck to him, too. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have been asked to make the following statement: this week marks the 60th anniversary of the deportation of hundreds of thousands of citizens from the baltic states. on the night of 24-25 march 1949, a wave of soviet deportations began, during which tens of thousands of estonians, latvians and lithuanians were forcibly expelled from their homes, deprived of their civil and human rights, and died in the harsh and inhumane conditions of soviet prison camps. almost every family in lithuania, latvia, and estonia, as well as in other former soviet republics, suffered under the cruel violence of the totalitarian communist regimes. almost every family had a relative who went missing in siberia, was pursued by the kgb, or was put behind bars and repressed. this is not a distant, dark past, but a memory that is still very much alive in the minds of many people who are now citizens of the european union. it is therefore our duty, on the basis of our common values and in memory of the many victims of these deportations, to reaffirm our clear and resolute rejection of these appalling crimes committed by the totalitarian communist regime of the soviet union. we owe it to the victims to assess the past objectively, thoroughly and carefully, because reconciliation is only possible on the basis of truth and memory.
it is an honour to welcome a delegation from the pan-african parliament to our parliament. as you know, the pan-african parliament is to the african union what the european parliament is to the european union. i am particularly pleased to welcome mr khumalo and his colleagues, as this gives me the opportunity to express my sincere gratitude to him and his colleagues, and in this way also to the president of the pan-african parliament, gertrude mongella, for the welcome i received when i visited the pan-african parliament in october 2008 and for the invitation to speak at the plenary session before the pan-african parliament. once again, a warm welcome to all of you! it's good to have you here with us. (applause from the centre)
madam president, you will remember, because you were there, that we discussed this at the conference of presidents. there was only one objection to the 15th of july, and that was from your side. all the other group chairmen have expressed this in the same way as i did before the european council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the speech is open to all members and, moreover, to the public.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
it is always nice to see the british conservatives fully on board the european boat, and totally at our side. thank you so much, and i promise to be on my best behaviour.
mr davis, the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly adopted a resolution on the tragic situation in the middle east on tuesday last week under my chairmanship. i would like to remind you of that. it is worth taking note of this resolution. thank you for your comments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in early march, political prisoners mikhail khodorkovsky and platon lebedev were transferred from chita, siberia, to moscow to face new charges on unsubstantiated charges. the first day of public hearings was set for 31 march. the same day, the eu-russia human rights consultations were to take place. these important talks have now been postponed indefinitely by the russian side. russia is clearly demonstrating the low value it places on human rights. the judiciary continues to be used not only for justice but also for the elimination of opponents of the regime, and the eu is being duped by this.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has already said that it is not in the interests of the community to maintain the current level of unemployment. the agreement with côte d'ivoire is an agreement which we have to approve in this parliament. we only have the option of saying yes or no. i hope that this will change one day and that parliament will also participate in the mandate negotiations. that makes it a little harder. there are two differences with the agreement with cariforum. firstly, we are dealing with a government which was not democratically elected. secondly, we are dealing with an interim agreement which for the time being only ensures that the old preferences can continue to be granted. the full agreement will be negotiated in the future. what i would like to hear from commissioner ashton is assurances on a number of points which i know will be very important for côte d'ivoire. i had another conversation last weekend in which it became very clear that there must be reassurances on the part of the commission, which is in full accordance with the assurances already given by the commissioner in the sadc case. so let me give you some of the main points. the first point concerns a great deal of flexibility. this flexibility should include the following: firstly, the inclusion of a review clause, which is also flexible, so that it does not provide for a period of five years, but that it can be evaluated permanently and at a relatively short period of time. secondly, sensitive issues should only be negotiated if the country actually wants them. this is particularly true of the singapore issues, but of course also of the question of how trips is to be integrated and similar issues. the third point is that regional differences will be accepted if further negotiations are made towards a regional agreement. the special problem facing côte d'ivoire is that the agreement is currently being negotiated and concluded in isolation, while in the future it is to be negotiated towards a regional agreement. fourthly, it would be important that in the context of new negotiations it should be possible at any time to take up issues which are not currently covered and that these issues should then be approved by the commission. in this respect, commissioner, if you were to extend to côte d'ivoire the concessions you have already made in the sadc case, then a corresponding positive reception by parliament would be more likely. we are deeply concerned, as many non-governmental organisations have also been, that the commission has shown a relatively low degree of flexibility at the outset, particularly in the case of côte d'ivoire, and that the points raised have therefore not been taken into account in the transition from the interim agreement to the full agreement. i would therefore ask you to make a concession to us so that we can give our consent to the agreement. i also heard in the debate with the representatives of côte d'ivoire that they are very concerned that the technical assistance will not flow fast enough and that not all their concerns will be taken into account. i understand that they attach particular importance to the commission and the international organisations helping them to provide market access for smes so that they can then actually benefit from market access to europe. they are extremely cautious when discussing these singapore issues - if at all - and they value our help in developing an understanding of how public goods can be used for society. they also want us to help them with all the technical standards, because they often see them as a real constraint on the market. my last remark concerns a point which concerns parliament. as i said, we only have the option of saying yes or no, and that of course limits the extent to which parliament can participate in the shaping of votes. i would like to point out explicitly - and you will find this in our texts - that a possible approval of the interim agreement does not mean that we will automatically give our approval to the full agreement. we would rather expressly wish to be permanently involved in the further negotiations through a monitoring procedure, so that we can then control the points raised to a certain extent, as far as is in our power. in conclusion, can you say a few words about the extent to which the non-existence of the doha agreements will have a particularly negative impact on côte d'ivoire, particularly as regards bananas?
a writer. mr president, commissioner, mr foreign minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. in this debate we are not simply talking about a package of 16 oral questions to the council and the commission, eight resolutions and two reports under the assent procedure, but we are talking about 79 developing countries with which the european union is renewing its trade and cooperation relations. trade and cooperation relations are important mechanisms in the fight to overcome poverty and to build economically and socially stable economies. this includes support for infrastructure, health care, food sovereignty, functioning social systems, education and cultural exchanges. in the past, our trade relations with the acp states were based on non-reciprocal trade preferences which allowed duty-free access to the internal market for most acp products. in 2000, it was agreed to develop new partnership agreements by the end of 2007. and it should replace unilateral trade preferences with wto-compatible agreements, with the objectives of reducing and ultimately eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable development, promoting regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance, helping the acp states to develop their economic capabilities and gradually integrate them into the world economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. the present economic partnership agreements, especially the so-called interim wpas or goods-only agreements, are primarily trade agreements, since 90% or more of them concern market access issues and other areas of trade. the aim is to gradually liberalize trade between the european union and the partner regions and individual countries. what problems do we think have arisen in the course of the negotiations? at first sight, it seems doubtful whether the time was sufficient. the commission is of course well placed: it had the negotiators, it could coordinate the votes, including with the member states. but imagine if you were the negotiating partner on the other side. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there was a lot of criticism of the content: first, despite the contrary opinions of experts, the commission considers that wto compatibility is not a matter of principle. 80% tariff reductions within the next 15 years. even if the commitments to liberalisation are initially asymmetrical, in terms of liberalisation steps, there are open markets on both sides - something the european union can easily afford. exports from the acp states represent only a small part of their imports. for the acp states, however, tariff reductions are a loss of revenue needed for urgent public investment in infrastructure, social sphere, support for economic development and improvement of administrative capacity. this also means a slowdown in economic growth and a further dependence on exports from the industrialized countries. this applies to food as much as to industrial goods, and it ultimately creates a vicious circle. if you look at the rising food prices in the acp countries, this is the clearest evidence of this. i have often asked the question: if 50 years of non-reciprocal trade relations have not brought about any development whatsoever, how can this be achieved by opening up the market to each other? another major problem, which is exacerbated by the present agreement, is the relationship between the partner regions and countries. the problem of internal customs may be less of a problem within the east african community - and i am personally responsible for the motion for a resolution - since there is a customs union here, but trade relations with neighbouring countries could be difficult because of the different degrees of liberalisation. and of course there are also many problems with regard to the rules of origin. there are great fears about the negotiations on a comprehensive wpa. they also correspond to certain conflicts within the stalled doha development round. many countries do not see themselves in a position to deregulate their services, investment and public procurement markets and open them to global competition. even within the ec, this is not entirely feasible or even desirable. the lack of control mechanisms for financial markets is not to be explained here. there has been and is a great deal of criticism of the transparency of the negotiations as such, i.e. the involvement of parliaments and civil society. and finally, there is the question of mode 4. if goods are to move freely, should not people be allowed to do the same? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what financial, technical and administrative support measures are envisaged in the context of the reorganisation of the trade and development partnerships? will the commission, in further negotiations, flexibly respond to the needs of the partner regions, in particular with regard to the possibility of export duties for development purposes, the protection of young industries, the free movement of workers and the special protection of public procurement? is the commission also prepared to reconsider its position on the protection of intellectual property rights in order to ensure that biological diversity and traditional knowledge are preserved and that medical care is guaranteed to the poorer countries at affordable prices? are the council and the commission prepared to provide adequate information on participation opportunities to parliaments and civil society in the future? finally, is there a willingness to review the agreements negotiated if it should become apparent that certain points have a negative impact on the development progress of the acp states? i would like to conclude by making a very personal comment. i have now been chairman of the committee on international trade for two and a half years. since i am not running again, i would like to take this opportunity to thank my secretariat, mr rodas and particularly mrs pribaz, very, very much for the great support they have always given me, and i would also like to thank my colleagues. it was a nice collaboration and i think we did a lot. it would be nice if we could do the same with the wpa! i would like to wish all those who remain here the best of luck for the next term. i am quite hopeful that trade will play a greater role in this european parliament in the future. thank you very much.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i believe that the economic partnership agreements are indispensable to safeguarding trade relations with the african, caribbean and pacific states. both the european union and these countries have a strong interest in cooperation. we must urgently stop feeding the african countries with development aid as we have done for the last fifty or sixty years. we must finally release these countries mentally, so that they can take their future into their own hands, so that they can build their own prosperity, as other regions of the world have done in recent decades. trade can make a very good contribution to this. i am thinking here of trade between the european union and these countries, but i am also thinking in particular of trade between these countries, of so-called south-south trade. i am firmly convinced that we may have to force governments and states to do something to remove their incredibly high customs barriers in many areas and thus create the conditions for economic growth in these regions in the first place. why do we have to do this? we urgently need a framework in these countries which enables people to create their own wealth. i have often had the impression in my talks with representatives from these countries that people are grateful that we, as the european union, are putting pressure on certain areas, that they are grateful that we are also setting guidelines in certain areas and forcing national governments to make some progress in economic policy. i would be glad if we could keep this point in mind in the coming weeks and months, particularly in the negotiations, so that we not only respond to the legitimate wishes of the governments but also at one point or another uphold our legitimate demands and also represent the legitimate demands of the people of these countries as their advocate. i hope that the negotiations will be fruitful.
the president-in-office of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank parliament for allowing me to speak at this crucial moment in the european parliament on this important issue, which is undoubtedly the economic partnership agreements. i would also like to acknowledge the very positive role that parliament has played in the political debate during these negotiations. i would like to express my appreciation in particular to the committee on international trade and the committee on development for their tireless work and to thank them for their continued interest in the negotiations. economic partnership agreements have always been a high priority for development ministers in their meetings within the general affairs and external relations council. in recent years, almost every such meeting has included discussions with the commission on the implementation of the council's mandate in the context of economic partnership agreements, often leading to the adoption of conclusions. when the czech presidency presented its programme to this parliament in january, we recognised that we were at a pivotal moment and we committed ourselves to doing our utmost to ensure further progress. on that occasion, we answered many different questions and made a considerable effort to discuss a number of subjects. we continue to see cooperation and constructive debate between the institutions as the best way to develop and develop sound policy. both developed and developing countries are facing an unprecedented financial and economic crisis that has affected the entire world. if you ask developing countries what the impact of the crisis is on their economies, they will tell you that there has been a decline in trade, which has led to lower economic growth, reduced production and higher unemployment. the decline in trade and the loss of export markets, which have been gained through years of effort, are very painful for emerging economies and for the living conditions and well-being of their people. in these circumstances, we must seize every opportunity to make trade a driver of sustainable development as part of our response to the global economic crisis. and that is what the epas are for. with gradual regional integration, they provide opportunities for regional trade and the expansion of duty-free and quota-free access to our vast market, allowing for an increase in trade with the european union. the epas do so in a manner consistent with the rules of the world trade organisation. this constitutes an important legal aspect which distinguishes these agreements from the previously applied trade preferences provided for in the cotonou agreement, which have adversely affected trade between the acp states and the european union and caused considerable uncertainty. uncertainty is the opposite of trust. uncertainty discourages investment, while confidence attracts it. it is well known that since the beginning of the current crisis, there has been a dramatic decline in investment in developing countries. in today's uncertain world, epas can provide a degree of legal certainty and confidence that will help economic recovery. these agreements are not a panacea, but a positive instrument that can be combined with other instruments. in recent months, a number of important reports have emerged describing how the economic crisis can impede progress towards the mdgs in many regions. this fact should be of great concern to us. epas make use of all the flexibility that wto rules allow to ensure that they are development-friendly. they provide our acp partners with immediate and asymmetrical market opening with long transitional periods, derogations and regular monitoring, and also commit to political reforms. at the same time, the european union has committed itself not to leave its partners to face this challenge alone. we will also provide tailor-made financial support for the implementation of these agreements. i am pleased that there has been a recent revival of interest on both the eu and the acp sides in intensifying the dialogue on epas. i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner catherine ashton for her efforts and for the importance she attaches to listening to the views of our acp partners. after presenting its approach to the epa agreements to this parliament in october last year and to the council in november, contacts with our political counterparts in the various acp regions have been strengthened. significant progress is now being made in the negotiations with the various regions. each of these regions has its own characteristics and progresses at its own pace. based on all of this, we should have a clearer picture in the coming months. i believe that the european parliament will support the economic partnership agreement with the cariforum states and the interim economic partnership agreement with côte d'ivoire. an encouraging signal will be sent to all acp countries. this will be proof to them that patience in negotiating produces results that are acceptable and beneficial to both parties. it also demonstrates the capacity of the acp-ec partnership to respond to new challenges, whether legal, economic or political. in these turbulent times, each new international agreement represents a stronger partnership and a new hope for the future. the conclusion of the agreement would be a valuable political message to be delivered at the forthcoming meetings of the two joint acp-ec bodies: the joint parliamentary assembly in prague in early april and the joint council of ministers in brussels at the end of may. the european union must continue to support its partners, not only the cariforum region, which led the way and signed the first comprehensive epa, but also those countries and regions that took the first steps and need to be encouraged to move forward. this includes côte d'ivoire, whose interim epa is also awaiting the consent of this parliament. more deals are coming. the commission is working hard to create the conditions for partner countries to come together and chart the way towards comprehensive regional agreements. the council has always stressed to the commission and to the partners that these agreements are a tool for development and that only comprehensive regional agreements allow the full benefits for development to be realised. the overall political and economic context in which parliament was called upon to approve the economic partnership agreement with the cariforum states and the interim economic partnership agreement with côte d'ivoire is important, but it nevertheless asked the council and the commission for some specific clarifications. this step is a necessary and legitimate part of the process, and i will try to give the fullest possible answer to the questions that fall within my purview. i am aware that further questions have been raised, which commissioner ashton is prepared to answer. first, i would like to address a few of the issues you have raised. one of the questions you raised concerns whether, when and to what extent the epa agreement with the cariforum states will be reviewed. the council and the acp group fully share the concerns on this issue. i can confirm that a comprehensive review of the epa will be carried out no later than five years from the date of its signature, which took place in october last year. this review is of course complementary to the ongoing monitoring of the implementation of this agreement as provided for in article 5. in accordance with the agreement, this review is mandatory and is one of the tasks of the joint bodies, including the parliamentary and consultative committees. the review will analyse the impact of this agreement, including the costs and consequences of its implementation. the involvement of parliaments in any amendment to this agreement or adjustment to its application shall be guaranteed, either in accordance with the laws of the parties to the agreement or within the framework of the parliamentary committee established under the epa. the second issue which concerns parliament is the accompanying financial measures requested by the acp regions, and in particular our commitments to promote trade. as you know, in october 2007, both the european community and its member states committed themselves to increasing trade assistance to eur 1 billion by 2010 as part of the eu's trade assistance strategy. approximately 50% of this increased amount will be available for needs, the order of priority of which will be determined by the acp countries themselves and which will include, inter alia, needs arising from the implementation of the epas. all commitments by member states to promote trade are complementary to the european development fund and all our commitments are firm. thirdly, i would like to reassure parliament that, as regards the important aspects of access to medicines, the commission is not going to be able to do so. in this case, i can state very clearly that none of the articles of this agreement can weaken the ability of cariforum states to promote access to medicines. we cannot go into the legal details here, but i can assure you that from a political point of view this is not the intention of this agreement. given the advanced integration process in the cariforum states, it was natural that you also drew attention to the question of the compatibility of this agreement with other regional programmes such as the single market and the caricom economic area. in addition to promoting development and facilitating the gradual integration of acp countries into the world economy, the main objective of the epas is to promote regional integration. article 4 of this agreement clearly provides that its implementation shall take due account of the integration processes in the cariforum states, including the single market and the caricom economic area. particular attention will be paid to strengthening regional integration programmes and ensuring their sustainable future. already during the negotiations, the cariforum states have ensured that all commitments under the epa are fully compatible with the regional commitments made by the caribbean states under their respective regional integration programmes. however, the compatibility of this epa with regional integration processes is also important for all other regions currently negotiating comprehensive agreements. an example of this is the comprehensive epa agreement for the economies of west africa. a comprehensive regional epa would strengthen regional integration, increase competitiveness and contribute to the development of the region. the negotiation process itself has contributed to the enhancement of regional integration efforts, as the establishment of a common external tariff of the economic community of west african states is considered a necessary condition for the conclusion of the epa negotiations. the same can be said for other regions, with due regard to their specific needs and integration processes. regional integration will undoubtedly be strengthened once all regions sign comprehensive agreements tailored to their specific requirements. parliament repeatedly called for a flexible approach to the transition from interim to comprehensive agreements. in this context, i can only confirm that the council shares this view and stresses the need for this flexible approach. as some of the issues remained unresolved in the negotiations, we called on the commission in may last year to use all the flexibility and asymmetry compatible with wto rules to take account of the different needs and levels of development of acp countries and regions. we've taken other steps in addition to that. the council stated that acp countries and regions which so wished could, if necessary, rely on provisions agreed by other countries or regions in the negotiation of agreements. it is clear that coherence needs to be maintained between the individual agreements, particularly in african countries. however, each region has its own specific features which should be taken into account. the economic partnership agreement concluded with the cariforum states serves as an example, not a template. i hope that my comments on these specific points have helped to clarify them and have provided some reassurance on some of the issues raised here in parliament. i am sure that the commissioner, who, together with her colleagues, has been dealing directly with the political representatives of the cariforum states and other acp regions on these issues, will wish to go into some of the other points in more detail. but at this moment in march 2009, when we are experiencing the worst economic shocks in a generation, i would like to stress how important it is that we all come together to celebrate the successes in the political field. at a time of trade downturn and increasing protectionist measures in this area, at a time when progress towards the mdgs is threatened to be reversed in some regions, the european parliament's approval of the economic partnership agreement with the cariforum states and the interim epa with côte d'ivoire is a positive signal to promote regional integration and to promote trade that helps development. we must respond to the current crisis by building more partnerships, not by reducing them. the european parliament's confirmation of the economic partnership agreement with the cariforum states will also bring hope and encouragement to other regions whose negotiations are at an advanced stage and who also need the sense of trust and strong partnership that these agreements can provide.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is a great pleasure to be addressing the plenary of parliament on an issue, as david martin described it, of fundamental importance to the european union’s relationship with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) nations. before i say anything else, i would like to make one thing completely clear: i have absolutely no interest whatsoever in negotiating agreements with acp countries that could make these countries poorer. i know that is an obvious statement, but my experience suggests that it is one that i should firmly place on the record and i cannot assume has already been widely understood. when honourable members come to vote later on, i hope it will be on the basis of the discussion that we have had today and the arguments that have been set out here, rather than on any preconceived ideas you may have. i believe that today’s plenary session is an important step forward on economic partnership agreements (epas). you will be asked for your assent on the full epa in the caribbean and the interim epa with côte d’ivoire. you have tabled no less than eight sets of draft resolutions and oral questions reflecting, in my view, the strength of parliamentary involvement and opinion on epas. i want to pay tribute, and place on record that tribute, to the huge effort that the committee on international trade and the committee on development have put into the debate on this issue. over the months, i have listened carefully to the views expressed, and my aim is to set out the case for epas and to dispel the myths around them so that every member is able to cast an informed vote when the time comes. i believe that what we have before us are good agreements that support economic development and integration in the acp and provide stability in these economically turbulent times. they are partnership agreements founded on the shared goal of development that make trade the servant of this objective and not the reverse. most of all, they are agreements that provide the opportunity for acp states to lift their citizens out of poverty through the dignity of their own labour and the genius of their own ideas. there is a perception that in epas the european union is breaking with the past and unilaterally trying to redefine the eu-acp partnership. it is true, of course, that epas are different from the lomé and cotonou conventions that embodied the union’s relations with the acp for 30 years, but the unilateral preferences that characterise those conventions became open to challenge in the world trade organisation by other developing countries. the dilemma that we faced was how to safeguard the development requirements of the acp while respecting international rules and, i would add, moral obligations. the answer was twofold: ‘everything but arms’ for the least-developed countries, and economic partnership agreements for the developing countries in the acp. the common theme that stretches all the way back to the first lomé convention was trade. trade has always been the defining factor of eu-acp relations, and what was once confined to unilateral trade preferences for commodities and raw materials in the early days of lomé has now been replaced by more diversified trade in manufactured goods, services and ideas in the 21st century. epas offer the acp the best ever access to eu markets and continue our commitment to provide opportunities for economic development. regional integration within and between acp markets has also been a key objective of this process and a subject that has attracted – not surprisingly – a lot of attention in oral questions. our global economy means that size has become more important, a lesson that we have learnt in the european union. by simplifying trade rules and replacing the complex maze of bilateral agreements with a small number of region-to-region trade relationships, the acp can create bigger regional markets that are more attractive to the investment which developing markets need in order to create jobs and growth. the agreements are of course a two-stage process: interim agreements to ensure we do not face the wto challenge and to create some breathing space for the second stage, the negotiation of full epas. the run-up to the december 2007 deadline for interim epas has given rise to an impression of steam-rollering acp concerns, but i want to reassure parliament that these interim agreements are only a temporary solution to safeguard and improve acp access to european union markets. i inherited this file at an advanced stage of negotiation. since then, i have met a large number of acp ministers and representatives and other stakeholders in the epa process. i have heard them and i have listened to them. one thing is clear: all put acp development at the centre of epas. epas are, if you like, where trade meets development. and that means development must be the foundation of our trading relationship based on frank and open dialogue. i firmly believe these partnerships will only succeed if they are anchored in an enduring partnership based on trust and mutual respect. the key test of this partnership is whether we and our acp partners have a shared vision of the future. in southern africa, i see a region that took conflict about epas and turned it into dialogue, and where we have now settled major issues of concern like export taxes, infant industry protection and food security. in the caribbean, i see a region that has set down clearly its own ambitions for an innovation-based economy. in west africa, i see an emerging regional market access position many thought impossible, and in east africa i see an emerging customs union that did not exist when negotiations started and is now building an epa around their own integration plans. this looks and feels to me like the beginnings of successful partnership. going forward, my vision for the negotiations of full epas is one where each negotiation reflects and respects the regional specificity of the parties to that agreement – a flexible process. this means both looking at content – because the epa has to work for its signatories – but also the pace of negotiations. it also means that epas should be dynamic and not static, able to react to future events and to account for different regional interests and needs. in this process, the commission will, indeed, continue to inform and involve the european parliament in a transparent way. while we should be ambitious, there must also be no imposed dialogue, which is why issues like government procurement have already been removed from some negotiations, and singapore issues only included when they are welcomed and wanted by the countries concerned. we will also take the time and provide the support to build up regional and national regulation as a prerequisite for further negotiation, and ‘aid for trade’ and technical assistance will be absolutely key in that regard. i can guarantee there will be no opening of public services, no pressure for privatisation. the explicit right of the acp to regulate their own markets will be recognised and there will be no limitation of access to essential medicines or collecting seed. in fact, we would rather seek to strengthen than limit acp rights and capacity in these areas. all of this is overlaid by our commitment that acp regions can draw on provisions agreed in other epas, so that each region can move ahead secure in the knowledge it will not be disadvantaged. so, côte d'ivoire can directly ask for and have anything of relevance to it that is part of the sadc negotiations and discussions or those for anywhere else. this is a key aspect of the flexibility that you asked me to provide and of allowing epas to replace an all-acp trade regime with one that matches regional solutions to regional needs without undermining acp solidarity. the case for dynamic rather than static epas has been highlighted by the current crisis. we began epa negotiations during a period of unprecedented expansion of investment, goods and services trade and soaring commodity prices. few predicted that in a few years the global economy would fall into recession, with dramatic price falls, exchange-rate and market volatility and a credit drought that would strangle the trade finance that exporters and importers need. we do not need a fixed deal that is redundant by the time the ink is dry on the paper. we need an agreement that establishes a relationship where institutions and monitoring can help identify and solve the problems as they emerge. the specific problem that erika mann asked me about on bananas is included in the interim epa – a guarantee of duty-free, quota-free access in that case. as these problems emerge, we need to include safeguards and clauses that allow acp countries to tackle any import surges, food-price pressures and fiscal crises: rendezvous clauses for specific issues, regular review clauses and, as in the caribbean epa, a role for parliamentary oversight and monitoring. to return to where i began, parliament has an historic opportunity today to give its assent to the first examples of a new generation of agreements that safeguard our special relationship with the acp; agreements based on genuine partnership, not paternalism; that harness trade as the motor of development; that promote and encourage the regional integration that will help acp countries flourish in a globalised world; that are flexible in terms of content, respectful of tradition, and are the latest manifestation of this long-standing trade relationship built on a respect for sovereign states. in short, they are the future and i hope, on that basis, members will give their assent.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank you, commissioner, for the words which we should remember for a very long time. ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago i attended the last acp regional meeting in guyana. the prevailing view among our colleagues from the caribbean was that it was now time to look ahead, not to lament and to implement the economic partnership agreements with determination. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has already made a number of recommendations to the council and the commission on the future of the european union. and only if parliaments exercise their control function will it be ensured that aid money gets where it is wanted. this applies to the national parliaments of the caribbean as much as it does to the european parliament. in all the resolutions we have on the economic partnership agreements there are paragraphs which deal with the aspect of parliamentary control. however, they are not uniform. the text of the sadc-wpa resolution is a good compromise. the committee on international trade and the committee on development of our parliament, as well as the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, are involved in the process. i believe that this compromise has been achieved and i have tabled a number of amendments with my colleague, mr robert sturdy, to ensure that this passage is included in all the wpa resolutions. i would ask you to support this initiative.
i have only one question, commissioner, after what my two predecessors have said. do you agree with me that there are countries in the world that have managed to increase their prosperity significantly over the last 20 years even without wpa, and that wpa may be an opportunity for those countries as well?
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and the council. what you have agreed on today is to give to côte d’ivoire what the parliament has been requesting for quite a time and i think the country will be more than happy. commissioner, please could you make sure that you will send someone – or go yourself – to côte d’ivoire as soon as possible to give this very positive message and confirm this by letter as early as possible? this is an agreement which really fulfils what we are asking for. i would like to comment on a few things which you have not really dealt with in detail. we would love to see monitoring. i know that this is complicated and that we will need the council’s help. we would like to see monitoring between the european parliament, the council and the commission taking place during the phase from interim to full agreement. that is the only way we can understand what you are going to negotiate. otherwise, you will just send us a draft at the end of that period which we will have to agree or disagree with. that is something we do not want to see. we do not want to be part of the negotiating process but we would like to monitor what you are doing. you do not have to do this today – although it would be helpful for us if you could give your agreement today – but i am happy, with my colleague, to negotiate the process with you. we have done this before with different agreements and in different circumstances, but i am sure that – if the council is willing – we will find something we can agree on. my last point to the commissioner – and to the council as well – is to ask for an assurance that that they will do their best to secure the kind of achievements agreed during the doha development round. this was the case regarding bananas and on cotton for other countries. there are other aspects involved which are important for developing countries. i know you cannot say ‘yes’ today, but please give us your assurance that you will try your best to secure those kinds of agreements. my final thanks go to two colleagues, firstly to glenys kinnock, because she was more than helpful and i am more than pleased to hear that she recommends assent on the case of côte d’ivoire. i know how complicated it is and i am very grateful that she is helping me in this matter. i would also like to thank my colleague syed kamall because he also helped as much as he could regarding the resolution. i know that sometimes it is against his beliefs with regard to trade. he is for open trade so it is not easy for him to come to an agreement. that is why i am pleased to thank both colleagues and give my thanks again to the commission and to the council.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i do not think i need the four minutes i have at the beginning of this debate, because it is a very simple and very beautiful subject that we are discussing today. we are talking about a new version of the cosmetics directive, which is now a regulation. this regulation is actually being modernised and we would like to modernise, improve and streamline it. we have three small improvements planned. firstly, it ensures that, although carcinogens are indeed banned in cosmetics, we do so with caution and that substances which are approved for use in food are not banned in cosmetics, such as vitamin a or alcohol. the commission has rightly recognised this and incorporated it in its proposal. the commission has rightly recognised that novel technologies such as nanotechnology require special attention when we talk about micronised particles which can penetrate the skin. we just want to make sure that there's no danger. i am satisfied that we have reached a compromise, and i wholeheartedly agree with it. finally, mr president, we have something else, namely the so-called statements. we should look at them and modernize them. if we arrive here today in a hurry and our deodorant promised us 14 hours of sweat-free time this morning, but we are still sweating all over tonight, then we are very surprised and say that this statement is not true at all. having statements that deliver what they promise is an essential part of honest, true products. we have legislation for safe products and at the same time for true and clear products. i am very grateful that the cooperation with the czech presidency has been very good. i would like to thank mrs popadičová, who cannot be here today but who has really done her best, which has not always been easy in this council. i would also like to thank the commission in particular, with whom the cooperation has been very, very constructive and successful. that's not a given in this house either. i would also like to thank my colleagues - i say colleagues, because they have been working on this subject for a long time - françoise grossetête, margret auken, hiltrud breyer and also frédérique ries, who cannot be here today, for their cooperation. we have not always been in complete agreement on the questions of how we deal with notification in nanotechnology, what we do with labelling, but we have reached an excellent compromise. i'm very happy about that! i would like to say a few words about the question of labelling. i think that some delegations, perhaps even my own and my own member state, still have to put something in the register. the labelling has nothing to do with warning signs. the labelling of products is a key element in the development of consumer awareness and consumer choice. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a product leak. they have the right to decide whether they take the sun cream and whether the infant should also take the sun cream. consumers have the right to choose! i'm going to do it myself, i'm going to use the products myself. others won't. but it's important to us that we empower all people to exercise that freedom of choice. i know that you, commissioner verheugen, will be making a statement later today on the whole question of the safety of medicinal products. i am grateful for this and hope that you will also address the question of the threat or the possibilities of internet commerce. if you do that, tomorrow will be an even better day for some of my colleagues who are in favour of the compromise but want additional guarantees, if we agree to the compromise in this form, as the council did last week. thank you very much.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the protection of human health as a primary objective also applies to cosmetics. this vote will make history. for the first time, there will be specific regulations on the use of nanomaterials in cosmetics, and we are entering new territory. i am particularly pleased to say that it was the green initiative which led to this breakthrough. we greens were the driving force, we put it on the agenda, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs roth-behrendt, very warmly for supporting this so clearly and clearly. and i am also pleased to commend the commission this time, which has always stressed that the existing laws are sufficient to guarantee the safety of nanomaterials, that it has changed its mind and is now clear: yes, we need specific regulations. this applies not only to the cosmetics regulation but also to the regulation on novel foods which will be discussed this week, because until now nanotechnology has been a kind of black hole. it has been put on the market without adequate risk analysis, and so it is a good day for health and consumer protection, although i regret that the definition of nanomaterials has not been sufficiently broad, being limited to insoluble and bio-resistant materials. however, it is important and crucial for us that we have succeeded in adopting nanospecific regulations. i also hope - and i am asking for support now - that the novel food regulation will succeed this week, because there is not yet such broad support from the commission. we need consistency not just with alcohol, but between cosmetics and food. the same applies in general to the field of nanotechnology. again, we need consistency between cosmetics and food. i also want to see a public debate on the meaning and benefits of nanotechnology. i am also glad that we have not relaxed the ban on cma in cosmetics, which was adopted at the initiative of the greens in 2008.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the crucial point in this report is, in my view, the change in the legal basis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is therefore right that the present report reduces the directive and national implementation to a comprehensive regulation. this is of course accompanied by greater legal certainty, which is of particular importance for companies in this sector which also carry out research. of course, the commission's commitment to reduce the reporting requirements by 25% in the near future is also very welcome. we have taken the first step with this regulation. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner. the present report also shows how quickly new products are taking hold on the market and forcing the legislator to act. we have only been dealing with the amendment of the cosmetics directive for a few years. the use of nanomaterials forces us to act anew. in the context of preventive consumer protection, labelling decisions are welcome, but the possibility of prior authorization is also acceptable, taking into account the state of scientific knowledge. i would also like to warn against panic, as has already happened with some other developments, and instead advise a scientific approach to the whole. we are following the line of the consumer advocate in demanding that advertising and labelling should reflect the actual characteristics of the product. but the deodorant thing, mrs. roth-behrendt, is always a thing. it works on one, but not on the other. sometimes the same medicine works on me one day, but doesn't the next. well, we can't take it too seriously. i only hope that the legal approach will not be watered down by too many measures taken by the commission in the comitology procedure. i therefore ask that we do not extend this procedure too far.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i am particularly grateful to commissioner verheugen for referring again to the ban on animal testing, because it reminds me that this is now the third amendment to the cosmetics legislation that i have been allowed to accompany: the sixth amendment, the seventh amendment, and now the amendment to a regulation. we have indeed succeeded in banning animal testing. we have made it possible for consumers to know, for example, how long a product will last by seeing a small box with a number indicating how long it will last. i say this to some of my colleagues, especially mrs roithová, who unfortunately was not able to be present at the beginning: labels are never warnings, at any time! if a product is not safe, it should not be put on the market, it should not be marketed. every product on this european market must be safe and harmless. but labelling gives consumers a choice. this is democracy, and this is their freedom of choice. we have very good legislation. i tried to make the process very transparent. i have tried, as mrs grossêtete said, to reconcile the different opinions. i am very much in favour of legislation that is good for everyone, for the consumers in the european union, for the industry that has to work with this legislation and, ultimately, for all those who benefit from it. i would like to say to mr schnellhardt again that the effect of the deo is different for each individual, but the statement 'keep you sweat free' is still made. it is therefore important that the statements concerning the depth of wrinkles around my eyes after a week in strasbourg are also reasonably real and reliable. i would like to thank the commissioner again, also for the statements he has made, and my colleagues and my staff, who have done most of the work. thank you very much.
member of the commission. - mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs sârbu, for her diligence and efforts to reach agreement at first reading on the proposal to amend directive 98/8 on the placing of biocidal products on the market. i would say that the european commission is able to accept the compromise package, in particular the point concerning the need to extend the transitional period by four years instead of three, and the point concerning the limitation of any further extension to two years in order to facilitate this evaluation programme.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner dimas, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we can be proud that we in the european union have achieved such a high standard of health and hygiene. the use of biocides is not an insignificant contributor. as disinfectants and pesticides, they protect against dangerous diseases and their vectors. biocides are essential. they must be safe for man and the environment, and for this reason a review of all biocidal active substances has now been initiated. security takes time, and the review is now taking longer than originally planned. we cannot afford to lose important products because their registration is not complete. i therefore welcome the fact that parliament, the council and the commission have now been able to agree on a rapid extension of the deadlines for the biocides directive at first reading - commissioner, i had thought by 2014 - but this is not the case. but why is this proposal so late? the danger of missing substances because of expiry of deadlines has been in the air for a long time, and our discussions in parliament have now had to be held under extreme time pressure. commissioner, we have been waiting for a long time for a commission proposal to revise the biocides directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. i would mention the definition of the criteria for authorisation, the duration of authorisation and, most importantly, data protection. the manufacturers need clear regulations and reliability. the use and handling of products also needs rules. the cost of testing an active substance is several thousand euros and this investment can only be refinanced if the results are not available to other applicants for at least a certain period of time. no one wants to miss our high level of hygiene. we must keep this in order to adapt to the new requirements. i hope that the commission will present a clear and well-founded report that meets all these requirements and that it will do so as soon as possible!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as chairman of the ad hoc delegation for relations with the pan-african parliament, i have the opportunity today to thank many of those involved. the first thanks go to maria martens, who has produced an excellent report on the progress of the agreed eu-africa strategy. the second thanks go to the institutions involved. we have managed to agree on the involvement of the two parliaments in a hexalogue - that is, with six participants. the two committees have agreed, the two parliaments have agreed, but so have the two councils. i am thinking in particular of the council's legal service, but it is always particularly important in such matters, because sometimes common positions fail. but after a first meeting in addis ababa, today at a second meeting we have succeeded in implementing or finally agreeing what we have agreed on the involvement of the parliaments. i would like to refer to what mr hutchinson said: what is really happening? yes, there's a lot of bad things happening in africa! but my impression is - perhaps it is a coincidence - that since the adoption of this common strategy, africa has reacted differently to coups. in mauritania, guinea, guinea-bissau, madagascar, africa is reacting by suspending the membership of these countries. it wasn't like that before. business as usual continued. i would also like to see the european governments take note of these facts. if this partnership is based on shared values, then europeans must also react when africans react when something goes wrong in africa. i am therefore confident that if we as parliaments are more involved in the implementation of this strategy in the future, we will add value to this partnership.
in writing. linguistic diversity is important. it is a daily reality in the european union and is becoming increasingly important in relations between member states, in the way we live together in our multicultural societies and in the common policies of the european union. however, in the field of language policy, the decision-making power lies primarily with the member states. it is not the european parliament's responsibility to give guidelines and recommendations on language policy. the fact that the eu has a commissioner for multilingualism makes it clear that a reform of the commission is essential, with the number of commissioners being less than the number of member states.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr van nistelrooij, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the green paper on territorial cohesion and the state of play of the debate on the future form of cohesion policy (2008/2174 (ini)) (a6-0083/2009), the report by mrs constanze angela krehl, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on best practices in the field of regional policy and obstacles to the mobilisation of the structural funds (2008/2061 (ini)) (a6-0095/2009), the report by mr oldřich vlasák, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the urban employment dimension of cohesion policy in the new programming period (2008/2130 (ini)) (a6-0031/2009), the report by mr wojciech roszkowski, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the report on complementarity and coordination of cohesion policy with rural development policy measures in the future (2008/2174 (ini)) (a6-0083/2009), the report by mr miráš ravalc, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the implementation of the small business and regional development strategy (2008/2021/06-02-02) and the report by mr miráš ravalc, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the report on the implementation of the small business and economic growth strategy (2008/21/02-02-02-03) and the committee on the cohesion policy (2008/0021/08-02-02) (ini)) and the report by mr mirás ravalc, on the report by mr mirás ravalc ravalc, on the committee on the committee on economic and economic and monetary strategy, on the implementation of the strategy of the small business strategy and r
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. cohesion policy is important in europe. cohesion policy is an expression of solidarity. but cohesion policy is not only needed by the supposedly weaker ones. all citizens need a policy of solidarity, a policy of european integration! the problem is made all the more difficult when the regions - we have over 260 in the european union - do not call on structural policy funds, not because they do not need the aid, but because the obstacles to actually receiving it are too high. some of these hurdles are homemade. it is of course important and essential that the rules are respected and that there is control over the way in which the money of the european taxpayer is spent. but this should not result in application forms and explanations of how to access the funds being so thick and incomprehensible that you have to have a doctorate to understand them. that is why i am calling in my report for concrete measures to reduce bureaucracy at european level, because that is our responsibility. for example, the control system should be simplified, the administrative burden on projects reduced and adapted to the size of projects, and the operational procedures of projects should be simplified, streamlined, accelerated and more result-oriented. i am sure that there is a lot that could be done at national and regional level. the second part of my report deals with best practices in cohesion policy. we don't have to reinvent the wheel twice. it's not efficient, and it's not really smart. so we need to find a system to make good examples of projects available to others. when we have tens of thousands of cohesion policy projects each year, the trick is to find, select and communicate exemplary projects in the regions. i think the commission has already made a good start with the regiostars initiative. but it needs to be developed. the report suggests criteria for selecting such projects in some, i believe, key areas. key areas include research and innovation, quality job creation, support for smes, climate change projects, integrated urban development and the development of public-private partnership projects, to name a few. the criteria for selecting best practice projects could be the quality and sustainability of the projects, the impetus for the regions and for the european union, the efficiency of the use of funds and, of course, the transferability to other regions. there are good examples everywhere. in the annex to the report i have listed some of the projects which have been handed over to me thanks to the contribution of the regions. they come from all the member states. i would like to mention a few: a centre of excellence for environmental technology in slovenia, the burgenland mobility centre in austria, the brain hunt competition in estonia, the new building of the fraunhofer institute for cell therapy and immunology in germany, the science park in granada in spain and the development of a problematic district in leipzig east in germany. in conclusion, i should like to thank my colleagues, both as rapporteur and as coordinator of my group, for the good cooperation they have shown, not only in this report but also over the last five years. i would also like to thank the commission, the committee of the regions and all the staff for the good cooperation and hope that we can continue this together in the future. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. commissioner, in your speech today you mentioned the contribution of cohesion policy to climate protection. i welcome that change of heart. the green paper on the territorial dimension does not focus on this. why not, given the climate crisis? the contribution of the european structural funds to the ecological transformation is a future issue for territorial cohesion. the commission document 'regions 2020' demonstrates that climate change is having a massive impact on many regions in europe. as a consequence, we would now have to reverse course: structural funds can only support sustainable projects, projects and programmes that damage the climate - many of which have been approved - are unlikely to be approved as such, and eu funds can no longer support programmes and projects that damage the climate. why don't you react that way? the second question concerns the implementation of the partnership principle. you, commissioner, said that local knowledge is an important basis for successful development. why did you approve operational programmes, even where the partnership principle was clearly trampled on and the partners also reported that they were not involved? the answer to that is you're guilty! local knowledge from below is a pound for us. if you continue to try to ignore the fact that member states are trampling on the partnership principle and yet promote it, then you are in breach of the structural funds regulation! you do not mention in your report - which is the basis of the mikolášik report - that many member states have not respected the partnership principle. they didn't take into account the partners' reports. why don't you say anything? it is clear from this that we need a new dimension in the way the structural funds are to be structured: they must be ecological and democratic, using local knowledge and respecting the partnership principle.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i very much welcome the timely political debate on the basis of own-initiative reports, with a view to making more effective and efficient use of our solidarity instrument by 2014. i am also particularly interested in conveying this european added value to the citizens. it is therefore only logical to reject all attempts to renationalize structural policy. we need more than ever a unified community policy capable of meeting the current challenges of globalisation, climate change and demographic change. whether we succeed in this or whether we are lying to ourselves with the commitment of funds for the lisbon strategy will hopefully be shown at the latest by the analysis required. we are at a crossroads where it is up to us to decide whether or not territorial cohesion and truly sustainable development will be the hallmark of european policy. we need many partners to make this decision, not least the cities. and that is why we want global grants to go directly to them, not just on paper, but in practice. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. in addition to the importance of the urban dimension, this includes the need for an integrated approach and the implementation of climate objectives. we have already reached a consensus on this - unfortunately not in the vote in the committee of the regions! the commission's economic programme is designed to simplify and speed up the allocation of structural fund funds. i have not yet understood why such steps were necessary before a crisis, but it does give hope. if the comprehensive analysis of best practice projects is indeed incorporated into the policy debate, then nothing should stand in the way of a european pioneering role in a truly sustainable policy. i thank all the rapporteurs for their good cooperation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to take this opportunity to comment on the roszkowski report. both policies in question - structural support and support for rural areas - seem to be working well on their own. however, i have the impression that the two approaches sometimes have the same objectives. in the areas of demography, energy and telecommunications, both in structural and rural development, we find project grants which really go in the same direction but are the responsibility of different ministries. we have a large number of european projects, but do we have projects with european added value? i get the impression that sometimes it's more like a splash than a splash. if we were to pool projects across departments, we could do bigger things for rural areas, like decentralised energy infrastructure, broadband cabling across the board, cross-border water infrastructure. we need more projects that are wanted by several ministries at the same time. we are not going to stop at the small stuff, but we can achieve something lasting for the regions with european funds. we must therefore make the european guidelines for cross-competence cooperation more binding. we may even have to think seriously about minimum project amounts. the second point concerns the financing. i don't think modulation is a very nice word. it is taking the promised compensation from farmers, but without providing reliable rural development programmes. that is why agricultural policy in the future must be a policy for farmers, with clear financial commitments without transferring funds anywhere. and regional policy must be a policy for the regions, with a particular focus on rural areas and their needs. we are thus giving a real european impetus which will also enhance the value of our regions in the long term.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report by mr van nistelrooij on the green paper and the future shape of cohesion policy is certainly one of the most important reports of the committee on regional development in recent years. we agree with the basic concept of the green paper, which is that territorial cohesion is about ensuring the polycentric development of the eu as a whole and the sustainable development of territories with different characteristics and peculiarities, while preserving their diversity. it is right that in the next planning period a more comprehensive system of gradual aid should be created for transition regions which will exceed the 75% of gdp threshold, so that these regions will have a clear status and thus more certainty in their development. the report by mrs krehl on obstacles to the use of the structural funds rightly lists the main shortcomings faced by applicants for the use of the structural funds, such as excessive administrative burdens, too many complex regulations or the slow and cumbersome centralised administration in the member states. the commission is being given a number of recommendations on effective measures to be taken to remove these obstacles. i would like to highlight and confirm two of these measures. firstly, at present project managers must keep their project documents for a period of 10 years in order to have them available for inspections carried out by the commission where appropriate. this is an excessive bureaucratic effort, especially for smaller projects. it is right that this should now be reduced to a three-year period! secondly, the evaluation criteria used by the european commission for innovative projects pose considerable problems. innovative projects may not be assessed according to the same criteria as other projects. it is simply necessary that something else happens here.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to conclude by making two comments. the public has a very ambivalent view of european structural policy. for some it is a matter of course that they will receive support, and the bureaucratic hurdles are simply too high. for others - and for some in our house - she seems to be a gateway to fraud. none of these pictures are right! solidarity is really important to my group, but it must also be well founded and it must not be a one-way street. on the other hand, it is not that the project promoters, the municipalities, the associations that apply for projects want to cheat the european union. complex procedures often contribute to errors but not to fraud. that is why we must change something in practice. the second point i would like to make is that cohesion policy is undoubtedly an important part of european policy. we need this policy urgently, especially in the face of the challenges of climate change, the economic crisis, globalisation, but also demographic developments, developments in the labour market. for the future, we as the european parliament must redefine cohesion policy in accordance with the needs of europe's regions. and the reports we have just discussed are a good basis for this. this can create european added value for the european union as a whole, but we must not pretend that structural policy can solve all the problems of this european union when we revise structural policy. we really need to focus on our tasks. thank you.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the socialist group would like to support this alternative resolution. however, we would like to stress that we do not want to see the recital g 'sexual and reproductive health' as a step back from decisions already taken. we want to recognize women's sexual and reproductive rights.
ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, it is a great pleasure to welcome here this afternoon the prime minister of the united kingdom, gordon brown. welcome, prime minister, to the european parliament. (applause) the prime minister will make a statement to the european parliament on the preparations for next week’s g20 summit. this summit meeting, which will take place in london on thursday 2 april 2009, comes at a critical movement in the handling of the current international economic and financial crisis. it offers a vital opportunity for the leaders of both the industrialised world and the emerging economies to work together on a common agenda for immediate economic stability and longer-term recovery. the london summit needs to agree on the macroeconomic policies and regulatory structures that can get us through the current crisis and put in place a better, more sustainable framework for the future. as chairman of the g20, gordon brown has been offering active international leadership at what is proving to be one of the most difficult times in recent history. the speed with which he has helped develop the g20 as a new tool of international economic governance is both encouraging and impressive. the prime minister has also made a strong and positive impact in showing how the united kingdom can work effectively with its partners in the european union, as together we find innovative solutions to the many challenges we face in common. i have always believed that it is vital that britain plays a committed role as a central player in the european union. (applause)prime minister, we strongly welcome your determination to play such a role. i have great pleasure in giving the floor to the british prime minister, gordon brown. (applause)
prime minister of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland. − mr president, for this special honour of an invitation to speak to you, and for your successful presidency of the parliament, let me thank you. let me thank you, european parliamentarians and members of the european commission, led by president barroso: it is thanks to the work of all of you, and the generations whose work we build on, that today we enjoy a europe of peace and unity, which will truly rank among the finest achievements of human history and which is today a beacon of hope for the whole world. (applause)and if anyone, in any country or continent, is in any doubt about how the human will and the courage of representatives with a mission can build a new future out of past decades of despair, let them simply reflect upon how, 60 years ago, europeans talked of enmities that were forever entrenched and relationships that could never be repaired. they talked of a hard, long and bitter cold war. they did not believe it possible that our europe could ever be fully at peace, far less that it could unite and cooperate. then let them think of how today, after years of cooperation and unity, none but those on the political extremes would question that we are stronger together and safer together than ever we were apart. (applause)on 9 november this year, we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of something that surely for each of us in this chamber must count as one of the most defining events of our lives – the fall of the berlin wall. it was a wall torn down by the resolution of people determined that no barrier, no intimidation, no repression, would ever again be allowed to divide the people of europe. friends, today there is no old europe, no new europe, no east or west europe. there is only one europe, and it is our home europe. i stand here proud to be british and proud to be european, representing a country that does not see itself as an island adrift from europe but as a country at the centre of europe – not in europe’s slipstream but in europe’s mainstream. (applause)that is why i am also proud that by a large majority our british parliament ratified the lisbon treaty. (loud applause)i believe that we in europe are uniquely placed to lead the world in meeting the wholly new and momentous challenges of globalisation ahead. we are uniquely placed because of what we have achieved in our union. i want to thank the members of this european parliament. you should all be proud of what together we have achieved – the greatest and biggest single market in the world, now bringing opportunities to 500 million people, and the most successful endeavour in economic cooperation anywhere in the world. you should be proud that this is an achievement of the european union. you should be proud, too, of the comprehensive framework of environmental protection that we are building – a defining achievement of european coordination, with this continent the first in the world to set itself unequivocally on the path to becoming a low-carbon economy. (applause)you should be proud, too, that, through the world’s biggest programme of aid, the most sustained commitment to saving and changing lives anywhere in the world has been made by this european union. so many of the consumer rights and workplace rights we all enjoy across europe have resulted from the campaigns led by individual members and groupings of this house. let us not forget that the european union has the most comprehensive social protection anywhere in the world – a set of rights and responsibilities that was enhanced for the people of britain when, i am proud to say, our government led britain into the social chapter. mr president, these successes of europe would have been impossible without the cooperation between peoples that you and this parliament have delivered. yes, we can see unity advanced by officials meeting officials across frontiers. yes, we see unity when leaders meet leaders. but the unity that will last is the democratic unity rooted in the common values of people now represented in this parliament, and more than treaties, more than institutions, more than individuals, it is these defining values that bind us closely together – our belief, as a european union, that liberty, economic progress and social justice advance together or not at all. these are the values rooted in the lessons we have learned by working together – the truth that freedom must never become a free-for-all, that markets should be free but never values-free, and the belief that being fair is more important than laissez-faire. we have learned again in this crisis that wealth is of no great value to society unless it serves more than the wealthy. riches are of value only when they enrich not just some communities, but all. this is not simply our political philosophy – in europe we believe these truths because we have lived them in the work we have done in our countries. now, in the midst of a global crisis of a speed, scope and scale quite unprecedented in history, i want to discuss with you how, by applying these values that are now part of our dna – these lessons we have learned over time in europe – europe and the world can rise to the four great challenges of globalisation: financial instability in a world of instant global capital flows; environmental degradation in a world of energy shortages; extremism and the threat it brings to security in a world of unprecedented mobility; and growing poverty in a world of worsening inequality. i want to discuss too how, with a global economy managed properly by us working together, billions of people in asia and elsewhere, many of whom are just producers of their goods, can become tomorrow’s consumers of our goods, how we can see over the next twenty years the biggest expansion of middle class jobs and incomes ever seen, and how, despite all the problems we have today, we can see ahead a world economy that will double in size, creating new opportunities for all of us in all our countries. i want to discuss how we can build, from a world which today looks unsustainable, unsafe and unequal, a truly global society which is sustainable for all, secure for all and fair to all. let me repeat: i believe that the european union is uniquely placed to lead in building this future, precisely because we have proved over the last 60 years that we as europe can meet and master the challenges of cooperation across borders, of coordination between peoples, and of building unity out of diversity. some of you will know that for many years i have advanced the case for a global europe, and for the economic reforms to make it happen. i know that some critics suggested that i was supporting global action more because i supported european action less. but i have made this case so strongly in recent years precisely because i passionately want europe to be leading on the world stage, and because i believe that the countries of europe, having come together around values of liberty, fairness and responsibility, have so much to offer the world as it, too, comes together. i want to see a globalisation that is open, free-trading and flexible, but which is also reforming, inclusive and sustainable. that is the message, at these most testing of economic times, that europe can send to, and share with, the rest of the world. today, as you know, an international hurricane is sweeping the world. no european country is immune from its impact. it is hitting every business, every worker, every homeowner and every family too. let us be honest with each other: our global economic system has developed and become distorted in ways that run contrary to the values that we celebrate and uphold in our families, in our communities and in every other part of our lives – values such as being fair to others and taking responsibility, honouring hard work and not rewarding irresponsible excess. complex products like banking derivatives, which were supposed to disperse risk around the world, have instead spread contagion. no longer can we allow risk to be transferred around the world without responsibility. i say that every part of what has been a shadow banking system must now come under the supervisory net. (applause)established limits to markets agreed in one country or region are being overtaken by global competition between all countries. i say that it is not enough to promote self-regulation and allow a race to the bottom: we have to agree international standards of transparency, disclosure and – yes – of remuneration too. (applause)just as globalisation has been crossing national boundaries, we know it has been crossing moral boundaries too. as we have discovered to our cost, the problem of unbridled free markets in an unsupervised marketplace is that they can reduce all relationships to transactions, all motivations to self-interest, all sense of value to consumer choice and all sense of worth to a price tag. yet a good society and a good economy need a strong sense of values. not values that spring from the market, but values we bring to the market; the solid virtues of honesty, responsibility, fairness and valuing hard work – virtues that come not from markets, but actually come from the heart. so starting at our debate today, as we prepare for the london summit next week, i propose that we, as europe, take a central role in replacing what was once called the washington consensus with a new and principled economic consensus for our times. faced with all these global problems, we cannot stand where we are. we have to act. of course, we have a choice, and i know the temptation for some is to meet this new insecurity by retreating – to try to feel safe by attempting to pull up the drawbridge and to turn the clock back. but i tell you that if there is anything we know from past history, it is that protectionism is the politics of defeatism, the politics of retreat and the politics of fear, and that, in the end, it protects no one at all. (applause)instead of heading for the rocks of isolation, let us together chart the course of cooperation. that is in all our national interests. that is why i propose that europe take the lead in a bold plan to ensure that every continent now makes the changes in its banking system that will open the path to shared prosperity, that every country participate and cooperate in setting global standards for financial regulation, and that every continent inject the resources needed to secure economic growth and jobs. what is the agenda? first, the market is there to serve us; we are not here to serve the market. that is why we in britain, other countries in europe and, yesterday, america, have removed uncertainty from the banking sector in order to get lending moving again for those people who need it to get on with their ordinary lives in the midst of extraordinary times. i believe that the common principles behind the us, the uk and the european plans for cleaning up the banks’ balances sheets will help to rebuild confidence and help to restore lending to the wider economy. for the first time ever across our world, we have a consensus, reflected in the de larosière report, the g30 report of paul volcker, the turner report in the uk and the financial stability reform, that, in the interests of protecting people’s savings, tough regulatory standards should be set across europe and across the world, and be implemented and fully monitored, not just in one country, but in every continent of the world. i believe that, for the first time, we can also agree the big changes necessary for coordinated action that will signal the beginning of the end of offshore tax havens and offshore centres. (applause)let us say together that our regulations should apply to every bank, everywhere, at every time, with no opt-out for a shadow banking system, and no hiding place in any part of the world for tax avoiders who are refusing to pay their fair share. we know also that a worldwide fiscal and monetary stimulus to our economy can be twice as effective in every country if it is adopted by all countries. i believe that this year we are seeing the biggest cuts in interest rates the world has ever seen, and we are seeing implemented the biggest fiscal stimulus the world has ever agreed. i am confident that the london summit can build on the action that the european council and the g20 finance ministers agreed a few days ago. we will do whatever it takes to create the jobs and the growth we need. i believe that the whole of europe will agree with president obama in saying that our actions should be sustained and robust until recovery is achieved. we also have a responsibility to the unemployed. i believe that no one should go unemployed for months without the offer of training, a job or help to obtain a job, and that no school-leaver should be out of school and out of work for long without being offered the chance to get the skills they need for the future. i believe also that in this crisis we must take urgent, serious and large-scale action to build a low-carbon recovery and make our economies sustainable. europe led the industrial revolution and now it can lead a low-carbon revolution – through investment in energy efficiency, the expansion of renewables and nuclear power, the demonstration of carbon capture and storage, the development of the smart grid, and the commercialisation of electric and ultra-low-carbon vehicles. that is why i am proud to be part of the european 2020 package on energy and climate change that we agreed in december 2008 – a decision of this parliament also which has set the highest standards for global leadership on the road to a climate change agreement we all want to see at copenhagen later this year. (applause) what we are now experiencing in some of the countries of eastern and central europe demonstrates why we must build anew the international economic cooperation to help countries whenever they are in times of need. a new, reformed, international monetary fund, in which we welcome greater representation from the emerging economies, and which must have at least usd 500 billion in resources – twice what it has today – must be empowered to help countries that are facing a flight of capital, help them assist restructuring the capacity of their banks and enable them to restore lending to their industries. i want an international monetary fund that does not just react to crises, but prevents crises, and i want a world bank that has the resources to prevent poverty and to facilitate, amidst the collapse of trade credits, the expansion of trade around the world. as we remember and celebrate that our european union and this parliament have so successfully expanded to welcome new members of our family, i say to eu member states from eastern europe now that we will not walk away from you at any time of need. we will do all that we can to be on your side. (applause) let us not forget either that, for hundreds of millions of people in the poorest countries, thrust into extreme poverty, this crisis is nothing less than a matter of life and death. the grim truth is that, because banks can fail and markets and trade collapse, half a million extra children – ten and a half million children in all – will die this year because they are literally too poor to live. ten and a half million children is not just a statistic. it is one child, then a second child, then a third child, then a fourth; each of them not just a child, but somebody’s child; each a funeral that should never have happened; each a life that could be saved – a tragedy, i believe, that strikes at the very soul of my being and yours. (applause) times that are difficult for us must never become the excuse for turning our backs on the poorest of the world or allowing broken banks to lead to and justify there being broken promises on aid. instead of allowing our european aid pledges to drift towards being mere intentions, then vague aspirations, and, eventually, tragically quiet betrayals, we should instead redouble our efforts to make sure that ours is the generation that finally does make poverty history. (applause)we can, together, deliver the biggest fiscal stimulus, the biggest cut in interest rates, the biggest reform in our international financial system, the first international principles governing banking remuneration and banking standards, the first comprehensive action around the world against tax havens and, for the first time in a world crisis, new and additional help to the poor. how do we build this global consensus for the global changes we need? let me say that one of the great opportunities ahead for us is for europe and every other continent to work together. today i want to emphasise also that europe and america can work more closely together. i talked to president obama yesterday about what i want to talk to you about today: a new era of heightened cooperation between europe and america. never in recent years have we had an american leadership so keen to cooperate at all levels with europe on financial stability, climate change, security and development. seldom has such cooperation been so obviously of benefit to the whole world. starting with the eu-us summit a few days from now, when president obama comes to prague, we can transform that summit from just an annual meeting into an unstoppable progressive partnership to secure the global change that the world now needs. think of all the advances we – europe and america – in a new era of transatlantic cooperation, can work together to achieve. let us work together for a new worldwide climate change agreement – a climate change agreement initiated at the g8 in 2005 by chancellor merkel – for the biggest cuts in carbon emissions the world has ever seen. let us work together, europe and america, to defeat the growing threat of terrorism from pakistan and afghanistan that can strike any of our countries’ streets at any time. with france under the leadership of president sarkozy joining the centre of nato again, let europe and america work together to achieve something that was once a dream but is now, in my view, possible: a world where nuclear weapons do not proliferate and where the nuclear powers agree real reductions in their arsenals of nuclear weapons. (applause)let us work together also for an urgent imperative all of us want to see in our lifetimes and something that all parties in this parliament, i believe, crave: peace in the middle east, with a secure israel side by side with a viable palestinian state. (applause)but the most immediate and the most urgently-needed gift our european and american cooperation could give is that, as a result of our actions, there will be more jobs, more businesses and more trade, as together we meet and master these great financial challenges of our time. there is a quote from one of the most famous europeans of all, michelangelo, that it is better to aim too high and fall short, than to aim too low and succeed. that is the choice, written by michelangelo, that we face now, because, as i look round this chamber today, i see that all of us here are not just witnesses and not just spectators, but potentially the makers of change, free to shape our own destiny. the people of europe need not be mastered by events. no matter what they are, we can be master of them. so let it be said of us that, in the worst of times, in the deepest of downturns, we kept to our faith in the future and together we reshaped and renewed the world order for our times. i believe that only once the history books have been written will we be able to truly grasp the range and scale of the extraordinary challenges each country on every continent is having to deal with as a result of globalisation now. this is more than a moment of change in our common history. this is a world of change, and we should remind ourselves that the most epoch-making decades in european history have never been fully understood as they have happened. if you look back to the renaissance, one of the greatest ages the world has ever seen, we cannot attribute its impact on the world to a single date or person or breakthrough. or the enlightenment – we cannot say with certainty when or by whom or how it was launched, merely that today’s europe and today’s world could not exist without it. when we look back at the industrial revolution, we cannot point to the day the whistle blew and it began, or highlight just one inventor or entrepreneur or a management committee that oversaw it. we can only say today, of events that were not properly understood at the time, that we are all beneficiaries of them. in this generation we face a world of change not yet fully understood, in which we can either hasten or delay progress by the myriad of decisions that we take every day. i say, in this world of amazing change – climate change, environmental demands, energy needs, the risk of terror, poverty and inequality that has to be tackled, a financial crisis that has to be dealt with – let us not retreat into the protectionism that is the road to ruin. let this be our legacy: that we foresaw and then shaped a truly global society for our new times; that, instead of globalisation being a force for injustice and inequality, we made globalisation a force for justice on a global scale; and that, faced with the most difficult of challenges, a united europe, founded on shared ideals and based on shared values, helped build this world anew. (sustained applause)
prime minister, on behalf of the european parliament, i want to thank you for that very remarkable speech here in the european parliament. (applause)now, it is a pleasure to invite the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, to make his contribution.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, what a courageous speech, and what a brilliant description of the necessities of our times. that is exactly the way we have to go, and we the european socialists and social democrats – and i am speaking not only on behalf of the members of my group, but on behalf of poul nyrup rasmussen, the leader of our social democratic movement in europe – can subscribe to every word of your speech, prime minister. it is an excellent direction. (applause) et en ce qui concerne les remarques de mon cher collègue, joseph daul, le minimum qu'on peut attendre d'un président d'un groupe parlementaire au parlement européen c'est qu'il soit capable de faire la différence entre protectionnisme et protection sociale. c'est une différence énorme. (applaudissements) et en ce qui concerne votre grand président, sarkozy, il sait peut-être quelque chose du protectionnisme, mais il y a une chose dont il ne sait rien du tout, c'est la protection sociale, ça c'est sûr. sie haben völlig recht, herr präsident, es ist ein großer moment: gordon brown ist am vorabend des g20-gipfels hier ins europäische parlament gekommen. dieser besuch zeigt, dass das forum der europäischen völker – dieses parlament – genau der richtige ort ist, um die perspektiven darzustellen, die sie, herr premierminister, hier vorgetragen haben. deshalb ist ihr besuch mehr als nur ein besuch im europäischen parlament. er ist eine richtungweisende tat, weil er beweist, dass sie als premierminister ihres landes und als gastgeber des g20-gipfels dem europäischen parlament die rolle zumessen, die diesem parlament zukommt, nämlich der ort zu sein, wo multinationale, internationale politik im kontinentalen rahmen der beziehungen europas und im rahmen dieses kontinents zu anderen teilen dieser erde diskutiert werden muss. dafür einen herzlichen dank, gordon brown, eine richtige tat! (beifall) sie haben, herr premierminister, drei elementare grundsätze genannt, die ich noch einmal aufgreifen will, weil sie auch elementare grundsätze der politik unserer bewegung sind. es ist nicht die gier, die individuelle gier, die entscheidend war. die hat es in der menschlichen geschichte immer gegeben, und die wird es immer geben. es geht um ein system, in dem sich diese individuelle gier ausbreiten kann und einen zerstörerischen charakter annimmt. genau dieses system ist falsch, und dieses system des ungezügelten marktradikalismus und des liberalismus ist gescheitert, es ist bankrott gegangen. deshalb muss das system geändert werden. deshalb haben sie recht: wir brauchen europäische und weltweite regeln für private equity, für hedgefonds, für offshore-center, die geschlossen werden müssen, und wir brauchen regeln für ratingagenturen, wir brauchen das verbot von leerverkäufen – die ganze serie von maßnahmen, die wir übrigens unter der führung von poul nyrup rasmussen gegen den widerstand der anderen fraktionen über lange zeit gefordert haben. genau das muss umgesetzt werden! (beifall von links) ich weiß, kollegen von der rechten feldpostnummer, dass es schwierig ist, zu akzeptieren, dass eine politik, die man zehn jahre lang selbst propagiert hat, sich als falsch erwiesen hat. da habt ihr schwierigkeiten, hinterherzulaufen! das kann ich gut verstehen, ändert aber nichts an der tatsache, dass ihr immer dagegen wart. sie haben recht: die nukleare aufrüstung muss gestoppt werden! sie haben recht: die zusammenarbeit mit den vereinigten staaten von amerika ermöglicht uns jetzt, in ein neues zeitalter der nuklearen abrüstung einzusteigen. und sie haben recht: wir brauchen solidarität zwischen den menschen in der gesellschaft und solidarität zwischen staaten! deshalb: ich unterschreibe für meine fraktion, dass sich die neuen staaten in dieser union auf die union verlassen können. jawohl, das ist der richtige weg, herr ministerpräsident! lassen sie mich einen letzten punkt aufgreifen. gehen sie zu den g20 mit dieser botschaft: wer jetzt in der wirtschaftskrise versucht, die umweltpolitik gegen die wirtschaftspolitik auszuspielen, macht einen verheerenden fehler. die wirtschaftskrise wird vorbeigehen, der klimawandel bleibt! deshalb: wir brauchen beides, vor allem auch einen effektiven kampf für eine bessere klimapolitik – und im übrigen, dieser kampf bietet viele neue potenziale zur schaffung von arbeitsplätzen. das eine mit dem anderen zu kombinieren, ist genau der richtige weg. (beifall) gordon brown hat eine große rede gehalten. je mehr die rechte gegen diese inhalte ankämpft, desto mehr zeigen sie mit ihrer rede, gordon brown, dass wir auf dem richtigen weg sind. wir freuen uns, dass ein wirklicher sozialdemokratischer regierungschef heute hier gesprochen hat! (beifall)
prime minister of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland. − mr president, it is a real tribute to this european parliament that you can have so many diverse views expressed in such a short period of time by so many people, and i thank you for your views. i hope, however, that even after the party politics has subsided, we will remember three things. first of all, that it is important that the world comes together to deal with this crisis. for us to sit apart, to be aloof, not to cooperate with other countries, is a recipe for failure and for an inability to solve a problem that is actually a global banking failure that has spread across the industrial economy. if we do not understand the problem, we will not be able to understand the solution. we had a power cut right across the banking system right across the world. we found that banks that we thought were independent were completely entangled with other banks in different countries, and we have to deal with that problem. whatever the party political lines that people want to adopt on this, this is the truth: we have to deal with the problem of global banking restructuring. europe did lead the way. we recapitalised our banks. other countries have now done that. more than a trillion dollars has been spent on recapitalising banks across the world. we have now created insurance schemes and other schemes to deal with the impaired assets. this has to be done and it has to be done by global cooperation. the second thing we have to realise, despite all the different political views in this parliament, is that global cooperation – not just in banking institutions, but global cooperation in other areas, in fiscal and monetary policy and in trade – has to be a very important part of how we approach the future. like it or like it not, the world is changing incredibly fast. more manufacturing is being done in asia than in europe. there is trade round the world at a speed that we have never seen before until this crisis, and we have to deal with that by creating a global trading environment which is free, but also fair. whatever the views in this parliament, i think people have to face up to that as well. the third thing that comes out of this discussion for me is that to have global solutions to global problems we will also need not just our european institutions to be strong, but our global institutions to be strong. i was asked by people who were replying to my speech what we could do to reform these global institutions. the imf, the world bank, and the world trade organisation are all organisations built in the 1940s to deal with the problems of the 1940s. we are in the year 2009. we had national capital markets. we now have global capital markets. we had domestic competition. we now have global competition. the world has changed fundamentally, and we need institutions that reflect a global economy in the way they operate and deal with the problems we have. i was asked whether i would ensure, or try to ensure, that the international monetary fund had the resources necessary to deal with the problems of economies that could not at the moment sustain themselves when there was a flight of capital. the answer is: we must do that. i was asked whether the world bank and other international institutions can help countries where there is substantial poverty being created as a result of the crisis. we have got to do that. i believe that the lesson of this crisis is that we are now in a global economy. there are global problems that need global solutions. that will require us to shape global institutions, and my message to this parliament is very clear. europe has led the way in so many other areas: it is now time to lead the way in creating the global institutions that will deal with the global problems we have, and provide global solutions. this is a test of how we, having over the last 60 years created a europe which has social protection as well as economic progress, can help shape a world where we have economic progress, environmental care and social justice at the same time. i believe that, whatever the different views expressed in this parliament, there is a will across the peoples of this world to do that, and we, europe, can play a major role in it. (loud applause)
colleagues, the lively debate today has shown the importance that we in the european parliament attach to ensuring a successful outcome to the g20 summit. i know that the prime minister has to leave shortly to go to new york for further preparations for next week’s summit. prime minister, we are very happy that you were able to join us this afternoon, and wish you every success in the important work you are engaged in. welcoming a british prime minister to the european parliament is always a very exciting occasion. today’s excellent debate has been no exception. prime minister, thank you very much indeed. (applause)
member of the commission. - mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to welcome the president of the european investment bank, mr maystadt, and the president of the european bank for reconstruction and development, mr mirow. and i would like to thank both of them and their institutions, before this house and this parliament, for the extremely positive cooperation they are developing with the commission, especially in these difficult times of fighting the economic crisis. mr seppänen, i am very grateful to you for your words and your effort as rapporteur on a subject which has been difficult and which has had a happy ending, as you yourself have said, namely the agreement at first reading to resolve the legal problems which had arisen around the external mandate of the european investment bank. this external mandate enables us, through the bank's action and in coordination with european policies, to take more effective and more intensive action in policies and areas of particular interest to the european union and to all european institutions, including this parliament. the commission is pleased that parliament will now be directly involved in the discussion of this external mandate, but we are also very grateful to parliament and the council for the flexibility they have shown in reaching agreement in time to avoid putting at risk or increasing uncertainties before the end of this year as to the possibility of continuing to use the resources and instruments of this external mandate. for our part, the next commission, at the beginning of 2010, will bring the relevant legal text to this parliament and the council, and we hope that, also at first reading, we will be able to give legal stability to an external mandate which allows, as i said before, the development of european policies of interest to us all. and as for mr mitchell, i want to congratulate him and thank him for his report. for the first time, the report does not only refer to the european investment bank but also to the european bank for reconstruction and development. we think it is right to bring the two financial institutions together, especially at a time when the effectiveness of their action must serve to reinforce our policies in the face of the economic crisis, and cooperation between the two institutions is particularly important. we are asking both banks to make a great effort. in the recovery plan, adopted at the end of last year, we called on both banks to significantly increase their creditworthiness at a time when markets are also making it difficult for both to obtain resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we hope that next year, in times when the economic situation is more calm than at present, the preparatory work and reflections of the group of experts set up by the council and the commission, in agreement with mr maystadt, to consider the future of the external mandate of the european investment bank, and the strategic review of the ebrd, which will also take place at the beginning of the next mandate of this parliament and the next commission, will enable us to continue to use its know-how, its credit facilities, its financial resources, its human resources and its experience in the service of the policies which we all agree must be the guiding principles for the future of the european union in the next decade.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted the opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to summarize here the opinion of the committee on budgetary control on the annual report of the european investment bank. the committee on budgetary control calls for the eib to play a more active role, to adopt a more active anti-fraud policy, with zero tolerance for fraud, corruption, money laundering and the financing of terrorism. the eib must not only pursue a policy on paper, but also include concrete measures and make them understandable through transparency criteria. the aim is to exclude from credit the companies whose corruption is proven and to protect whistleblowers effectively. the eib's investigative and preventive role must also be given greater prominence than before. we want the same supervisory rules for the eib as for all other commercial credit institutions, particularly in view of the current financial and economic crisis. the eib is a major player in the international credit market, and its activities are closely linked to the development of the european union. we also need independent monitoring structures to monitor the quality of eib results and compliance with the code of conduct. our main concern is that in future parliament will draw up a separate report on the work of the eib. we believe that this is possible and appropriate because the member states are the sole shareholders of the eib and there is therefore a direct link and therefore a direct budgetary responsibility to parliament. thank you very much.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we discuss the current economic crisis not least as a problem of imbalance, with an unfettered market on the one hand and a deficit of public interest on the other. we have not always succeeded in arousing public interest in the financial market and in real economic processes. that's why it's so important today that we talk about the fact that there are public investment banks that are right at this intersection, that are making the market work and have a public mandate to act in the best interests of our future. that is why my forecast for the presidents of the banks involved, who are here today, is that we will need them even more in the future than we do now and in the past. the report by mr mitchell has two main points. it calls for a good division of labour, an optimum for pooling strengths. and he also says, let's focus the work of both institutions on the challenges that we have to face in the future, which are climate change, the concern that there will be mass layoffs and economic collapse if we don't do something about it, and the demand, especially from small and medium-sized businesses, for public infrastructure to move forward, which gives us breath and which also gives us perspective. so i thank mr mitchell for his good cooperation. a good product has succeeded. the european parliament has fought for its role and will do so more strongly in the future. that is the message of my group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. otherwise they would not be able to take the risks that we often want them to take. that's why i'm talking about control, but differentiated.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eib and the ebrd have long been shadowy and have barely been known to the general public in recent years. i hope that this will change in the face of the financial and economic crisis, because now these important european institutions are becoming even more important. given the large volume of loans that both banks are making, it is important that they operate according to clear criteria and principles. the fact that they are public institutions does not in itself guarantee that. we have public banks, for example in germany, which have broken the rules and have run into difficulties, just as some private banks have. i hope that both institutions - the eib and the ebrd - will indeed set their priorities with a lot of thought and that in the future, when we look back, those priorities will also prove to be correct and true. the important thing - and i can only support you in this - is that the banks really continue to focus on smes as the backbone of our european economy, and that they focus on projects that actually clearly meet the criterion of sustainability. the rating of the institutions is very good, more favorable than triple a. in this respect, they are able to finance themselves on relatively favourable terms. we must ensure that we do not overcharge them, and especially in times of crisis, try to use them as a source of capital where other sources of capital may already be drying up. i am glad that we as parliamentarians will be able to participate in the definition of priorities from next year onwards and that the fact that the banks will be more accountable to parliament than they have been so far will be the basis for very good constructive cooperation. i would also like to say one last thing: i encourage both banks to step up their efforts and to ensure that they do not duplicate each other, but that they complement each other very well and really work in a complementary way. it is also important to me that the ebrd continues to play its important role in countries in transition, because these countries cannot be left alone, especially in times of crisis.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing today the mid-term review of the financial framework 2007-13. i would remind you that we agreed at that time on a number of interinstitutional declarations, which we call for to be incorporated in this report, and which will provide the newly elected parliament with guidelines for the european parliament's future action in the coming months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission undertook to present a report on the functioning of the interinstitutional agreement by the end of 2009. the commission has committed itself to presenting a budget review for 2008/2009 which could include anything from a full and comprehensive review of all aspects of expenditure, including agricultural policy and own resources, to compensatory payments to the united kingdom. and let us not forget that here in the house too, in 2010, many multiannual programmes will have to be subject to a mid-term review. if you look at the documents from the public consultation which are now available, you will see that, unlike others who have spoken, the member states are trying to avoid this responsibility and this commitment by jumping right into the next financial perspective. i have just come from a meeting on the so-called economic recovery programme and i would like to say: what is happening here, with the constant search for margins which are no longer available, and with new programming which is taking over parliament's budgetary rights, makes it clear that we cannot continue in this way. that is why i am calling on the commission to present a proposal in autumn, which does not only consider the period after 2013, but also looks at a review of the financial perspective and then looks ahead. we are also very clear in this report that we are going to focus first on the existing deficits and the long-term perspective without going into detail on the budgetary implications of the lisbon reform treaty. we have therefore adopted a three-stage approach in the committee on budgets by a large majority. addressing the shortcomings and obvious deficits of the outstanding issues that we have not been able to successfully negotiate and clarifying that there are budget headings priorities of our policy that are chronically underfunded. for example, we are not achieving our objective in research and innovation, we are not achieving what we want to achieve in the area of heading 3a and 3b in terms of culture, youth, education, internal and external security, and the common foreign and security policy is chronically underfunded. the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget, and it is not yet clear whether the council will take a decision on the budget. the proposal is to resolve these problems in an ambitious review and at the same time to extend the existing financial perspective to 2015 or, where appropriate, 2016, so that in the long term the necessary democratic legitimacy will also be given in the financial framework, namely a greater parallel between the commission's term of office and the financial framework. and it is also part of this that we should not forget - especially in the context of the debate on the eib - to take more and more care to ensure that there are no shadow budgets outside the community budget. in conclusion, let me say that this report is also in line with the reports of the constitutional committee. that is why we are sending a message to the commission and the council: the objective of achieving a five-year financial framework with this parallelism between the term of office and the term of office is not negotiable for us. we're just willing to negotiate how to get there. thank you very much.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you very much for these two reports – which we can evaluate as being for the new parliament and, probably, for the current commission still, as well as for the new commission – on how we will negotiate, what tools we will have to manage the european budget and what kind of future european budget it will be. on this point, i wish to congratulate us all, including parliament and the commission. over five years we have had unprecedented events. we have revised the financial framework three times – which had never happened before – galileo, the food facility and, now, eur 5 billion. that is exactly due to the capability of the institutions to use this rigid environment in which we operate in financial frameworks today to the best of our capabilities, to deliver where it was needed. the commission therefore takes note of both reports, especially mr böge’s report, which relates to the future shape of the european budget. the commission is ready, and will be ready, to negotiate on the basis of what you include in your report. we will confirm our obligation to deliver the mid-term review and evaluation of how the iia is working. we confirm that we will deliver on what we have been obliged to do, and as has been promised in the iia, on budget reform by the end this year. taking that into account, i would like to thank parliament personally. i am probably talking to you on one of my last occasions here and i would like to thank you for all the cooperation i had, for all the understanding i have had from you right from the very beginning. in these difficult times we have been able to deliver very good results together.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i would like to support the three-step approach to midterm review developed by mr böge and just presented. it provides an opportunity to analyse carefully our policy objectives, the necessary changes to our instruments and the allocation of funds. ceterum censeo: as a foreign policy officer, i would once again call for the elimination of chronic underfunding in the field of foreign policy. the commission has undertaken to submit an assessment of this. we are calling for short-term solutions within the current financial framework and for viable options for the next financial framework. this includes providing adequate funding for the eu's external action service. we want a european union which fulfils its obligations in the field of external relations and is able to respond appropriately and rapidly to crises. our credibility and our ability to act as a strong partner in the world depend on it. we welcome the further development of the european neighbourhood policy towards the eastern partnership and the union for the mediterranean, so that the partners involved have two functional and reliable frameworks at their disposal. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external action is a very good one. we are calling for new legislation and appropriate resources in the next financial framework for cooperation with third countries outside the framework of official development assistance. if i may make one wish for the future - even beyond the lisbon treaty - it is that all the funds for external action should be included in the eu budget. this applies both to the european development fund and to the athena mechanism. our governments need not be afraid to create transparency in one area, so that it becomes clear how much we are actually doing together in the european sphere of foreign policy, including and especially in military engagements.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to thank mr virrankoski very warmly for his own-initiative report, which addresses a longstanding concern of the committee on budgets, namely the questions: how do we plan? what planning tools do we provide? how do we get our priorities straight? i thank you very much, mr virrankoski, also for your cooperation. we believe it is important that our budgetary priorities should also be reflected in the question of human resources. we therefore wish to make an offer to the commission. we should make better use of the commission's reporting obligations to bring the annual policy strategy and the draft budget together. we find that the annual reports of the directorates-general do not take account of the budget's hit rate at all or too little. the question we are asking is: what has happened to parliament's priorities, and what is the success rate of the annual policy strategy? i think we could all learn a great deal more and we must all learn a great deal more if we are not to allow all this reporting to remain a purely theoretical objective. it is not, it is not a theoretical exercise, but it is necessary to be able to really control money at all. so our request is to develop these management tools further, to help us learn more about how the budget is being implemented, and to incorporate more of the implementation into planning. we also ask how the annual management plan can be better integrated into the annual policy strategy. we ask that you tell us more about the costs of the abm cycle, which we also need to simplify. it was suggested that these questions be included in the screening report. the current screening report is already in, thank you very much. we shall study it and take note. but that means that these matters must be dealt with in the next report at the latest. there are two amendments which our group cannot accept. we do not think that an extension of two years is appropriate because it further devalues this management tool rather than improving it. we want to improve this abm/abb management tool, rather than extend it to two years. we also vote against the study amendment. that is a good amendment, but it has lost nothing in this report. i would like to thank the commissioner for her cooperation and wish her success in the election campaign.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the reform of eu finances is overdue, as the rapporteur, mr böge, has thankfully pointed out. we need a fair, simple, transparent, reliable and sustainable system of revenue and expenditure for the eu. the eu budget should be financed exclusively from two sources: traditional own resources and the levies based on the economic strength of the member states, i.e. a share of gross national income. the member states should contribute no more than 1% of their gni. instead of providing more money for the eu, spending should be redirected to areas where there is real added value to be achieved at european level, such as the common foreign policy, trans-european networks, external border protection and research. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this means that vat own resources must be abolished and, above all, there must be no eu tax in any form as long as the eu is not a genuine representative democracy. the eu's proper and virtually exemplary debt prohibition must be maintained and a national declaration of reliability must finally be presented by all eu finance ministers. thank you very much and good luck in your new assignments.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. when the current financial perspective was adopted, all three european institutions - the council, parliament and commission - understood that we needed reform if we were to keep up with the times. now the member states are hiding from it, and that is not right! it is true that we need a balance between continuity and planning on the one hand and the ability to adapt quickly to new challenges on the other. we have to change a rigid structure. it is therefore right to plan the european budget - medium-term financial planning - for five years and thus to link it politically to the responsibility of an elected commission and an elected parliament. this will contribute to transparency and political clarity and decision-making. we have heard today what gordon brown has proposed, all the things that have to be on the agenda. and president obama today announced that he's going to invest 129 billion dollars in renewable energy. what i am saying is that we too must make it clear to our citizens in europe that we must change our european budget. we must link agricultural policy, for example, to the production of ecological energy, and no longer make direct payments dependent on the size of farms. we must link more to rural development, which then also really benefits the people on the ground. we must adapt our entire economic and growth policy to the paradigm of climate protection and sustainability if we are to take seriously the debates we are having here and our lisbon strategy and adapt to the new challenges. this also means that we need to invest more in education, research and development at european level. we must find the political courage to do this together - all three institutions!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner. after a period of practice, we worked together in a very constructive, open and good way. this has been duly reflected in many of the negotiating results of recent years. good luck for the next few weeks. i would also like to thank all the members for the good cooperation and for the discussion in the run-up to the vote in the plenary tomorrow, including catherine guy-quint as rapporteur on the budgetary consequences of the lisbon treaty. we have agreed on a common approach to the main points of the reports, particularly as regards the three-stage approach and the timetable. we were aware that the current financial perspective for 2007-13 and, in conjunction with it, the interinstitutional agreement of 2006 were the maximum that could be negotiated, but we were also aware of the shortcomings in the action. that is why it is so important to call for the forward-looking agreements with this report in good time and to make them come alive and engaged. in the coming weeks and months, particularly in the light of the current negotiations on the economic recovery package, we must remind the council that all the elements of the interinstitutional agreement - because there are many instruments, as the commissioner has pointed out - are an integral part of the overall financial framework. if this recognition were to mature a little more in all the member states, we would be a step further along with the existing framework. i would also like to take this opportunity to ask the commission to take due account in the autumn of the fundamental findings and considerations which parliament will adopt tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is the second time in a few months that we have had to discuss the situation of the automobile industry in europe in this house. i regret to say that the situation has deteriorated since our last exchange of views. new car sales decreased by 20% and car production by 29% in the last quarter of 2008. this negative trend continued in 2009: in january and february of this year, sales fell by 29% and 18% respectively. they would have gone even deeper had it not been for the successful programmes launched by some member states to stimulate demand. the crisis is not confined to the european market, exports to third countries have fallen rapidly, with negative effects on the european trade balance. the automotive industry is under pressure worldwide. the outlook for the remainder of the year is not promising: total production of passenger cars and commercial vehicles in europe is likely to fall by between 20 and 30%. this means that in 2009 around 5 million fewer vehicles will be produced in europe than in 2007. the negative forecast concerns in particular commercial vehicles, for which a 35% decline in production is expected. the commission, as you know, reacted quickly to this situation. in october 2008, we made initial recommendations to deal with the crisis in the framework of cars 21, including the involvement of the european investment bank and the scrappage premium. at the beginning of january, i agreed with the eu's economic ministers on a joint approach to the crisis, and on 25 february the commission presented a concept which was endorsed a few days later by the european council and the competitiveness council. the answers we give go directly to the main causes of this really very serious crisis. the reasons are: rapidly declining demand, difficult access to capital, liquidity problems and structural overcapacity. these structural overcapacities are a worldwide phenomenon. what we want now is to preserve the integrity of the european internal market, to avoid protectionism and to maintain solidarity among the member states so that jobs in the automobile industry can be saved. i would like to make it very clear that the first thing that is needed is industry itself. we have already created the framework conditions for a future-oriented automotive industry in cars 21 and we are continuously improving them. to put it very clearly, the european automobile industry must now move forward on a broad front to bring to market the cars that are required today at the beginning of the 21st century: energy-efficient, low-fuel and resource-saving. the commission has taken a clear political position. the most important thing, we believe, is to restore the functioning of the financial system so that the high investment needs of the european automobile industry can be financed. and this high investment demand is due to the fact that the european car of the future must now be developed and brought to market. we have adopted the temporary community framework on state aid, which gives member states more room to manoeuvre in dealing with liquidity problems. this was necessary to ensure that otherwise profitable companies did not fall victim to the acute effects of the crisis. we also want to ensure that investment in research and modernisation is continued during the crisis - and especially during the crisis. the measures to this end are far-reaching. the european investment bank has already approved projects for the automotive sector worth more than eur 3 billion this year, with further projects worth several billion euros in total already in preparation for 2009. these projects take into account not only vehicle manufacturers but also subcontractors. the european investment bank - to which i express my gratitude for its cooperation - is also working on a special programme for the supply sector, which has been particularly hard hit by the crisis and is characterised by a small and medium-sized enterprise structure. we will provide one billion euros for research partnerships with industry to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon and energy-efficient economy. this is necessary to give european industry a good starting point for the post-crisis period so that it can really benefit from the positive development that is expected thereafter. there's also something to be done on the demand side. a number of member states have introduced scrappage premiums to stimulate demand. the commission has drawn up guidelines for member states to follow when introducing such support schemes. this is to ensure that national measures do not have a discriminatory effect and do not disturb the internal market. i'm happy to tell you that that worked out, too. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. if the european automotive industry is to remain competitive in the long term, some structural changes will be unavoidable. this process will be painful, but it is inevitable. we need a vibrant and competitive industry with high employment potential and not companies that are permanently dependent on subsidies. the european commission has made funds available through the european social fund and the globalisation fund to support those workers most affected by the temporary effects of the necessary restructuring of our industry. in april we will be holding a first round table with representatives of industry, workers and the member states to discuss the social dimension of the crisis and the response to it. i would, however, recommend that we should promote the continuing training of workers and thus preserve their employment opportunities, whether in the automotive industry or in other sectors of the economy. i should like to say a word about the situation of a particular manufacturer, a word about the situation of general motors in europe with its opel, vauxhall and saab brands. i repeat that it is not in the european interest to let this producer go under! more than 200 000 jobs depend on this manufacturer throughout europe. i do not share the view that the withdrawal of general motors as a european manufacturer would be a contribution to solving the capacity problems of the european automobile industry and as such would be welcome. the workers concerned did not cause the crisis in their company. this crisis has arisen in america alone. there is no national solution to this problem. there is not even a european solution. there can only be a transatlantic solution involving the parent company. and that is why we need to know what is going to happen in the united states. we don't know that today. the american government doesn't know yet. i am pleased that all european governments with gm sites have agreed to abandon national isolation and work together on the european part of a solution. and the only way that solution can be is to end up with a viable, competitive successor company in the market. it must be a solution that is economically justifiable, not just politically. the jobs at general motors in europe are too important to allow them to be dragged into election campaigns or national interest politics. the commission will therefore continue to work with all its strength to ensure that such a european solution is found. finally, the commission will also ensure that its legislative work does not impose any additional and avoidable financial burden on the automotive industry in these difficult times. we can no longer just talk about how bad the crisis is. we have a european plan with coordinated action at both eu and member state level. it is time to act and to put these plans into full effect. thank you, thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to thank commissioner verheugen for raising this issue and for the fact that at a ministerial meeting on 13 march it was possible to coordinate european action and prevent national unilateralism. we have asked for a debate, also on the basis of your written report, because we believe that the crisis is so serious that it must be dealt with by the european parliament. we have drawn up a joint resolution which covers the main points. i want to repeat what you said: of course, the rescue of an individual company can only succeed in view of the own responsibility of that company and in view of the particular circumstances of the general motors case and intellectual property rights and many other things. because the sector is large. with 12 million jobs dependent on the automobile industry, with investments of eur 20 billion a year, an annual turnover of eur 780 billion and a value added of eur 140 billion, the automobile sector is a major sector which has fallen into this difficulty partly through its own fault - if i think of the overcapacity and the model policy of some manufacturers - but overall mainly due to the effects of the international financial crisis. we therefore welcome the fact that all the measures are being taken together and are intended to contribute to making the automotive industry more sustainable, to help it to boost demand out of this crisis and to facilitate the provision of investment and finance for buyers and for the industry. in addition, these measures - you said that at the end - are intended to help avoid the emergence of new regulatory problems that would put additional pressure on the competitiveness of the european automotive industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. my group will support the socialist group's request that paragraph 5 be included in the specific case of general motors, so that we can, by a large majority, strengthen the commission's back, give workers security and open up a perspective for the automobile industry.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. once again we are meeting here on the subject of cars, and rightly so. the crisis is hitting one of our key industries hard. twelve million jobs, 6% of the workforce, largest investor in research and development it's worth talking about, finding solutions too. but now we are seeing that the eu does not have the right tools to deal with this crisis. the member states are pressing ahead one by one, the competitive framework is being temporarily jeopardized and the european investment bank, the panacea, is overstretched in terms of both resources and staff. that's why we need new ways! i am grateful to commissioner verheugen for his very rapid adoption of these framework directives to examine how we are now proceeding with competition law. we need better equipment from the eib. we need special conditions for the eib with the european central bank - the statute does not allow this at the moment - as regards access to fresh capital. but we also need to link this state aid more closely to the paradigm shift, to new technologies, away from the combustion engine. we also need to direct the funds in this direction: the structural funds, the agricultural funds should devote more resources to infrastructure for these new technologies. let me get to general motors. i agree with the commissioner and the previous speakers that there is a european dimension to this because this company is active in many eu countries. the principle is that the state - and the eu - have no business in the economy. the crisis will not change that. the automobile industry is strategic, but it is not systemic like the banks. that is why we should be careful not to seek to acquire shares. but as far as guarantees are concerned, if there is a private investor, the right way is to take a guarantee through the eib. but this requires that this paradigm shift, this path to new technologies, be pursued. we're seeing it these days, daimler and abu dhabi sovereign wealth funds are going in that direction, so it should be possible for us to do that. i would like to thank the commissioner for his active action, but i would also like to thank my colleagues for following the initiative of this resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the most important issue in this debate is the concern for workers in the automobile industry. the numbers are just so gigantic that it's almost beyond imagination. the commissioner made it very clear in his speech that the figures show a shocking overproduction and a glaring lack of innovation in efficiency and climate protection. if we are now prepared to grant state aid to the automotive industry, it is essential that this be conditional on the funds actually being used to safeguard employment and create jobs for the future, and that preconditions be formulated to ensure that these companies are now really investing in innovation. what makes me a little suspicious, commissioner, is the great influence of the cars-21 group, the great influence of industry on the process that is being pushed here. so far, i have met some german companies in the automotive industry in particular, which have been on the brakes in terms of climate protection or efficiency. i also noted with great interest that two weeks ago there was a renewed call for a waiver of environmental requirements. you can't do that! in this conditioning of aid, the focus must be on employment, genuine innovation, the issue of continuing training and the qualification of workers, both among the subcontractors, i.e. the many smes dependent on the large companies, and among workers in the automotive industry. my group could live with that very well. but without these strict conditions, we are not contributing to sustainable employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank the commissioner in advance for his statements, but also for the courageous approach he has taken in recent weeks and months with regard to the automobile industry, and also for his very clear commitment to general motors that there must be a solution for this company, because this company is needed, especially in the context of the strategy with regard to new drive technologies. for that, my sincere thanks! i would also like to take up what mr langen said, namely that the epp supports our group's amendment because i think it is important and right. i also thank you for allowing us, as a parliament, to express our views on general motors. it didn't look like it, but better late than never, and so thank you very much for that. we have discussed short-term measures in our resolution. but we should also talk about medium-term measures, and that is what the cars21 group of experts did on the harmonization of vehicle tax rates. i know that this is a difficult task, but it would be a european economic recovery programme for the automobile industry. we are in a time of crisis, we should get these measures under way! the 27 finance ministers should give it a shake.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we all owe a great debt of gratitude to mr marinescu for having succeeded in reaching agreement with the european council in such a short time with the support of the vice-president of the commission. the second package of legislation will enable us to make airspace control more effective in the coming years, save up to three billion in costs for airlines and thus ultimately for consumers, and reduce the environmental burden by up to 12% of co2 emissions. these are important objectives in terms of cost, consumer and environmental aspects, which we can now achieve. the first of the two regulations gives the member states a definitive commitment to do what they should have done long ago, namely to establish functional airspace blocks in a short time. in these spaces, which are no longer national but functionally oriented towards air traffic flows, airspace can be controlled more effectively and safely and unnecessary waiting loops in the sky can be avoided. i am very grateful to the commission for supporting us in this and the rapporteur for insisting that there should be a european coordinator for the functional airspace blocks. we will have problems in getting these new functional airspace blocks set up by the member states. it is important that a coordinator, on behalf of parliament and the commission, should insist that they be set up. it is also important for us to integrate military airspace control and to develop a real master plan for the single european sky, which also applies and actually implements the technological results of the sesar air traffic control research project. finally, it is important for us that easa should be given the task of implementing the standards and control tasks for airports, air traffic management and air traffic control services. this organisation must be equipped with the necessary staff and equipment in good time. we are very much in favour of this, and i hope the commission will support us in this, that easa actually consults the relevant economic circles on all new activities for practical solutions, so that there are really effective solutions.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. one lyric says: "over the clouds, freedom must be boundless". that's wrong! the european sky is a patchwork of 60 national control centres. that's twice as many as in the united states, with half the air traffic. in addition, military exclusion zones prevent direct flights from one airport to another. this is not sustainable, even with air traffic doubling every 10 to 15 years. if traffic doubles, the risk to safety quadruples. this is what led us to launch the single european sky in 2004. unfortunately, the council of ministers insisted at the time that member states should agree among themselves which airspace blocks were to be formed. this was a mistake, because the member states have wasted a lot of time and become entangled in questions of national competence. now parliament, with a good rapporteur, has produced a regulation which sets clear objectives and rules of the game for the necessary integration by 2012. this is a contribution to safety, climate protection and cost reduction in air transport. fifty kilometers shorter flights, 12% less carbon emissions, 3 billion in savings for the airlines, fewer delays for the passengers. in short, i hope that this district reform in the sky finally succeeds and takes us a little further.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. mr rübig, i had already noted this, and i was just about to tell you that the reason i am so relaxed about this is that i do not think that we are making life unnecessarily difficult for the industry, because the usb standard is in fact already in place. all my experts tell me that the existing standard can be used for any device you can hold in your hand. you can't use it on large pcs and mobile phones at the same time, but it's certainly possible for all handheld devices. i think that is the answer to mrs ţicău: the standard you are asking for is already in existence. i should also like to say, madam president, that there is a lot of work being done on the question of energy consumption and the environmental impact of such chargers. we shall deal with this question at the latest when we are working on the implementation of the directive on products which consume energy, for which we have submitted a new proposal to you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and that's not just for chargers, by the way. i think this is a subject that goes much further. the commission is already working on this and will report back to you on the results.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to convey the regrets of vice-president barrot for being unable to be with you tonight. i am pleased to note that parliament has accepted the council’s common position and thus given shape to the political agreement which it and the council reached on this proposal during the trialogue on 2 december 2008. i would thank both parliament and the member states for the spirit of compromise they showed in achieving the formal adoption of this instrument, and in particular i should like to thank the rapporteur, baroness ludford, and the co-rapporteurs for their support and cooperation. this agreement will allow preparations to continue for the launch of the visa information system scheduled for the end of this year. at parliament’s suggestion, the commission has asked the joint research centre to study the important question of fingerprinting children under the age of 12. the technical specifications have now been drafted and will be sent to parliament and the council in the very near future. this change to the common consular instructions will also provide a transparent and harmonised legal framework for the practice of outsourcing, including the question of the extra fee. the commission considers that the text agreed upon is balanced and, as set out in the commission’s statement to parliament, attracts the commission’s full support.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in order to take account of the need for freedom, security and the rule of law in the european union, it is our task to regulate the issue of entry visas to citizens who wish to enter the eu from outside europe. the new rules provide that eu embassies and representations will in future take fingerprints and photographs of applicants. this will achieve four objectives. first, it will help to combat fraud and abuse, as biometric identifiers make it more difficult to forge visas. secondly, the so-called visa shopping is prevented. thirdly, the procedures for applying for visas will be speeded up. fourthly, at the same time, border controls will be facilitated, as biometric identifiers will enable border officials to quickly determine whether the person concerned is also the person to whom the visa was issued. we would like to follow the commission's proposal to take fingerprints from children as young as six years old in order to eliminate the risk of human trafficking. unfortunately, there was no majority in the house. the epp-ed group broadly supports the compromise reached that a member state responsible for receiving and processing applications must also be given the possibility, as a last resort, of cooperating with external service providers. the key to our agreement to such cooperation is that the member states are responsible for data protection and data security in this case as well. this means that, in principle, the transmission of electronic data from the external service provider to the authorities of the member state concerned may only be carried out in full encryption. i would like to thank the rapporteur and also the colleagues from the other groups who have worked on this project for three years as shadow rapporteurs!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too appreciate the dedicated work of our rapporteur and would like to thank her and all of you very warmly for the excellent cooperation over the last few years. i shall abstain, however, because i consider that the fingerprinting and the use of biometric identifiers are not proportionate. i find the collective rage, which is being desired and constantly promoted by the interior ministers and security authorities, with regard to personal data to be fundamentally worrying. i know how difficult it was to convince the council to accept the compromise to exempt children under 12 from the obligation to take fingerprints. but we also all know that this is only true until there are comprehensive studies that actually prove that fingerprints on children are reliable. so the political debate about whether we really need fingerprints on babies and young children is not over. i am also concerned about the rules on outsourcing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is understandable that in some limited cases it may be useful to outsource the processing of visa applications, but this practice should not be at the expense of the applicants and data security. i do not think that the compromise reached with the council is sufficient in this respect. both the legal service of the parliament and the european data protection supervisor have pointed out the risks of outsourcing when the external service is not provided in a diplomatically protected area. unfortunately, these concerns were ignored by the council. another problem is the service charge associated with outsourcing. i think it is wrong to impose this fee on applicants. the visa fee of eur 60 is already too high or difficult for many third country nationals to afford. if there is an additional fee of up to 30 euros, that does not correspond to my idea of an open and hospitable europe. it can certainly be a relief, especially in very large countries, not to have to travel halfway across the country to a consulate to apply for a visa, but instead to submit the application to an external service provider. but i think that any higher charges would immediately destroy this advantage. thank you all for your cooperation on this dossier over the past few years.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we need new rules for new foodstuffs, because we cannot, particularly in the context of nanotechnology, fall behind the decisions we have taken today on cosmetics in the food sector. we need a definition of nanomaterials and a clear labelling. however, nano-foods cannot be authorised until specific risk analysis methods are in place. otherwise we would be turning consumers into guinea pigs, which i hope nobody wants. in the field of genetic engineering, we must close the labelling gap as quickly as possible. food from animals fed with gmos cannot be left unlabelled. we have the traceability, sort of, on paper. so it works! and we shall also be looking carefully tomorrow at the way our german colleagues have just voted. because there's a gap in the labeling. we do not want to disempower consumers. they should have the freedom to choose, to decide for themselves. and let me be clear: we do not want the authorization of cloned meat in europe, for both animal welfare and ethical reasons. and we should make that very clear in this regulation. the last sentence: animals must not suffer unnecessarily. we therefore call for a clear ban on double-blind animal testing. thank you, thank you!
i have to say, madam president, it would be nice if you would also give me the extra half-minute which my green colleague mrs breyer has just received. the commission had put forward a good proposal to update the novel food regulation. unfortunately, some of the amendments seek to supplement this proposal by introducing provisions which are incompatible with the objectives of the regulation or which even seek to interfere with existing case law. the obligation on food business operators to monitor novel foods with regard to animal health and welfare would simply overwhelm traders. and once again there is an attempt to circumvent the existing gmo laws, namely the requirement for a special labelling of such novel foods obtained from animals fed genetically modified feed. we just heard. in principle, everything that concerns gmo legislation should not be covered by the novel food regulation. i say this even though i myself have proposed, for example, that new plant species be specifically excluded from the definition of novel food. but it is not possible for interested circles in this house to abuse the regulation on novel foods for electoral purposes. the same is apparently true of amendments nos 62 and 90, for which the greens have requested a roll-call vote. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. my group has always supported the consumer's right to know what is in food. so why not mention nano-origin in the ingredient declaration? and although amendment no 62 is a somewhat clumsy attempt to preempt my report on food labelling, i must tell you that i think that this labelling of novel foods is entirely compatible with my report. i therefore recommend that my group approve the above motions and will refer to the part of the regulation on novel foods dealing with labelling in my report on the regulation on food labelling. this is possible because we have postponed the first reading of the food labelling directive to the next legislature, against the wishes of the greens. but now it is clear to everyone how beneficial this delay was. the short answer is that cloning is animal cruelty. we are against it. nevertheless, foodstuffs must be included in this regulation accordingly, otherwise they would be in a ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am not going to go into detail. we have taken note of the internal political situation in the czech republic. i would like to express on behalf of all of you that this should not affect the work of the czech presidency, but that we must want the work to continue. we support the czech prime minister, the president of the european council, in his efforts to make the czech presidency a success. i would like - and i hope i can say this on behalf of all of you - to encourage the president of the european council to continue the ratification process of the treaty of lisbon in his country and in those countries where there is still work to be done. we have been working on this treaty for the reform of the european union for ten years now since the nice decisions, and we want to make sure that the last difficult steps are taken so that this treaty can hopefully enter into force at the beginning of 2010. we need the lisbon treaty for more democracy, for more capacity for action in the european union and for more transparency. (applause from the centre) the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the european council of 19 and 20 march 2009.
the president-in-office of the council. - good afternoon, i greet you all for the president of the european council's regular report following the spring european council summit. first of all, i'd like to apologize for not staying for the whole meeting as usual, in the second part after the speeches of the faction leaders, i'll be represented by deputy prime minister vondra. the reason i have to go back to prague is, as hans-gert pöttering has already said, the unprecedented obstruction by the socialists, which we have been facing throughout the presidency, and i have never hidden it. the fact that the government will resign, the presidency will certainly not be threatened, the fact that the socialists did not take into account that the czech republic is the president of the european council, that they reject a basic level of cooperation, that is what damages social democracy the most. the presidency should not suffer because i am deeply convinced that what i said here in my inaugural address to the european parliament, that we would try to moderate the debate and reach a compromise, we have undoubtedly succeeded in doing so, and the european council in spring is proof of that. it's customary in our country when a speaker speaks, that others don't jump in, but maybe the customs are a little different here. let me now turn to the conclusions of the european council and stick strictly to them. i will talk about why i am here today, why we have taken certain steps at the european council. but let me first comment on what happened before that, and that was the so-called tripartite summit with the social partners. it was a rather strong meeting, with me and the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, and the two subsequent prime ministers, both prime minister reinfeldt of the kingdom of sweden and prime minister zapatero of spain, and i was very pleased and surprised by the consensus of the social partners, not only with the intentions of the presidency, but also with the solution of the situation in which the employed or unemployed are and can be placed because of the global financial crisis and the economic recession. i have to say, if there was interest, i would say more about the tripartite, but we agree on three basic principles, which is to allow for much greater labour market flexibility, labour mobility, to work much more intensively on the higher education and skills of the labour force so that it can be applied in the labour market, etc. the spring european council was the second meeting of heads of state that we have held, but it was the first formal summit. perhaps the most widely followed topic was the question of how to deal with the current economic crisis. i absolutely reject the notion that we're doing little, that we're doing little of the deep stuff. i'll give you one number: 400 billion euros. the european union has taken unprecedented steps, and in conjunction with the automatic stabilisers that the european union has and the united states of america, for example, does not, i think that the example that josé manuel barroso gives is quite instructive. the worker who is fired from saab in sweden and the worker who is fired from general motors somewhere in chicago have completely different social standards, completely different approaches of their governments and it is the automatic stabilizers that multiply that amount of 400 billion euros to a much higher one and give us an undeniable advantage in this against the united states. the basic support for this consensus of all 27 is the confirmation of the validity of the lisbon strategy, which is one of the four pillars on which the whole strategy is based. you had gordon brown here yesterday and he certainly had the opportunity to explain to you the approach of the whole 27, the mandate for the g20 summit and in fact the other three pillars of this strategy. all short-term measures, and we agreed that, must be temporary and are intended to be temporary. the medium and long-term priorities and guidelines of the lisbon strategy have been confirmed, and the short-term ones must be aligned with them. i must say frankly that, following the words of timothy geithner, the united states secretary of the treasury, the european council was more or less appalled by the idea of permanent action. not only is america repeating the mistakes of the 1930s, but there are widespread incentives, trends and calls for protectionism, the buy american campaign and so on. all these steps, their combinations, and worse, the initiative for their permanent establishment, are the road to hell. you have to read the history books, which have obviously been dusted. i consider the most important achievement of the spring council meeting to be the clear rejection of this path and this short-sighted approach. i must firmly reject the words of the president of the party of european socialists, poul nyrup rasmussen, that we in the european council have done little to combat the crisis and that we are waiting for a bailout from the united states. not only because the path chosen by the us has already historically discredited itself, but also because, as i said, the level of social security and the provision of social needs of citizens in general is significantly different in the us and at a significantly lower level. that's why the dangerous part of this path is that to fund their social incentives, americans will need cash, and they'll get it easily, because american bonds are always bought. but it will threaten the liquidity of the market, it will take liquidity out of the global financial market and in the case of other bonds, maybe european, but certainly polish, czech, maybe other countries, their sale will be threatened and then there will be no cash in the system. this approach is a concern and i think it will be discussed at the g20 summit. the g20 summit will be one of the opportunities to talk about this. the informal 27th summit with the us administration and barack obama in prague may be a continuation of this discussion. i believe that the united states and i will find a common solution, because we do not want to set america and europe against each other. today, and this crisis has shown us again and again, that there is no such thing as an isolated economy, and the degree of interconnectedness is very high, which means that in times of crisis, we all have a problem, and we can only solve it together. the second pillar of the consensus on finding a solution to the current crisis is the preparation of the g20 summit. the materials that gordon brown has prepared with his administration are excellent and you had the opportunity to see them yesterday. the three-pillar approach, which means dealing with the financial sector and fiscal incentives, regulation and i would say correcting the errors within that system and the renewal and liberalisation of world trade, which means pushing for the resumption of the doha negotiations within the wto, is exactly what i believe is a certain set of solutions that the european council is offering and on which it has unambiguously agreed. i would also like to point out that we finally agreed on a specific figure for increasing the available financial capacity of the international monetary fund, and we defined this specific commitment at 75 billion euros. the 27 have a common position, a single voice and a common objective in the g20. i considered this to be the greatest achievement of all, because this whole european council was a test of european unity, european solidarity, european values and the european single market. if any of this is compromised, we'll actually come out of this crisis weakened. and i think, on the contrary, that if we respect these basic attributes, we will come out stronger. there is no reason to be pessimistic about the g20 as mr rasmussen is concerned, and i think we all understand the need for solidarity and cooperation, as graham watson of the liberal group has said. the current crisis, as we all say, is a crisis of trust. the third area, therefore, which is key to resolving the crisis, is the restoration of trust. it's not enough to just pour money into the system. we tried that, and the banks still won't lend money. the banks need to lend this money. and banks won't do that until they have confidence. the liquidity they have at their disposal hasn't solved the problem. trust can neither be commanded nor bought. so as part of the confidence-building process, we took another step to strengthen it, doubling the guarantee framework for non-euro area countries to €50 billion. i have to say, we're in agreement on that, too. we also agreed that we need to move not in a block but in a one-size-fits-all approach to each bank, to each country, which we consider dangerous at this point. the markets are nervous, reacting to every gesture immediately, exaggerated and negative. that's why there's better regulation in place. i emphasize better or where there was none, so the introduction of this regulation. this is where you, the members of the european parliament, come in. we would like to reach an agreement, and i have signs that it is possible, on legislative acts that basically fulfill our vision and vision of better regulation regarding credit rating agencies, insurance solvency, bank capital requirements, cross-border payments, electronic money, etc. i would like you to approve these standards during your term of office and to put them into effect and to put them into practice immediately. i welcome very much, and we all welcome, the de larosière report, which is brilliant in its analytical part and very instructive in its implementation part, and in this respect the european council has drawn clear conclusions. perhaps the most important task of the spring european council was to take stock of the implementation of the recovery plan so far, as set out by the council in december. this is the most heated debate and criticism, and i think it's undeserved. the plan is said to be inadequate, slow, unambitious. i would like to put this in perspective, and i have already said that 400 billion, which is 3.3% of gdp, not including the resources for bank recapitalisation, for bank guarantees, which is more than 10% of gdp, is simply a rate that the european union can afford at a given moment, and yet it will mean a very significant intervention in the growth and stability pact, a very significant intervention in public debts, in the correction of things in that period the day after, that is to say the day after the end of the crisis, if i want to simplify it like this. i think even the 5 billion euros, just a small fraction of the huge 400 billion that was finally approved, is the result of very complex negotiations that were attacked by a number of states. firstly, either because the amount is not an anti-crisis measure if it is not drawn in 2009/2010, which is true, there is no transparent system for evaluating projects, there is no good list of those projects, etc., that it is missing or it is in excess. finally, after very complicated negotiations, we reached an agreement, and here the czech presidency has a clearly dominant role in reaching an agreement to approve the 5 billion, to send it to you in the european parliament to be dealt with. i have to say that the recovery plan has, of course, its community level, where there is about 30 billion euros available today, and its national level, where each member state implements its own fiscal stimulus under the plan, and i think the key thing that the european council agreed on is the validity of the stability and growth pact. if we are to emerge from this crisis as a whole, unharmed and strengthened, we must respect our own rules. the biggest mistake, i think, would be to start setting up new packages now without all the national and community actions having been launched, without knowing their impact and without knowing whether or not there is a need for further fiscal stimulus, and that is what the european council agreed. if necessary, the european council will take further action, but at this moment we do not know whether it should or should not, no one knows the bottom of the crisis, no one knows its end. it's completely absurd to take further measures without knowing the effect of these measures, of this fiscal stimulus of 400 billion. the plan is ambitious, diversified and complex, and it addresses the situation in each country, a little differently in each country, both in terms of growth and employment and, of course, the problems that are associated with the economic situation. the second major theme of the european council was energy and climate. we've made significant progress in both energy security and climate protection. energy security, in addition to being one of the main priorities of our presidency, and its need, became clear in january. the gas crisis is not solved. the gas crisis can start tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, next month, next year, anytime. the fact that the 5 billion anti-crisis package is also focused mainly, though not exclusively, on connecting european countries and on various mechanisms and projects that should reduce dependence on one supply route is proof of what i am saying. we agreed that the crisis mechanism for the supply disruption must be ready by next winter, so that it can respond to any problems that come. it's more than obvious that we need him. this was evident in january, and it was most evident in slovakia and bulgaria and some other countries. climate debate: the negotiations and preparations for the copenhagen conference are already under way. both denmark, the host country, sweden, which will be hosting the event, and the czech presidency are already working intensively on this. we are trying to find a common position at european level. we are starting to negotiate with the biggest players without whom the success of the copenhagen conference is not assured. these are the united states of america, these are of course japan, china, india, these are other big countries and big polluters. the biggest debate, and i would like to dwell on this a little bit, was whether we should now set not only the mechanisms, but also the share of each european union country in the package of money that we will provide to help developing countries, third countries, to meet their commitments in the fight against climate change. the decision we made is the right one. in a situation where we are negotiating with all the big players who are talking more than they are doing, it would be very untactical and very wrong to set ourselves barriers and limits that others would not respect. the negotiating position is much better when we have our hands free, and that's what the countries that finally put the last proposal on the table agreed to, namely sweden, denmark, the netherlands, the united kingdom and poland. in the polish approach, of course, the interests of countries that are a little concerned about this mechanism and those of countries that are leaders in climate protection are respected. what we have to do is find the mechanism, the key, and formulate it in time for the copenhagen conference, and it was agreed by all the countries, even those that make it their top priority. thirdly, in the area of external relations, the european council formally endorsed the eastern partnership initiative as a complement to our foreign policy or the policy of close neighbourliness, whereby if there are glaciers in the north, the atlantic in the west, and our neighbours in the south and east, there are countries that can potentially threaten both our economic, social and security situation. the eastern partnership was the aim of the czech presidency and i am very pleased that it was approved, that a clear amount of eur 600 million was provided and i anticipate your question, and that is the participation of belarus. we are considering this, belarus has made some progress, the suspension of the visa ban for the regime is being extended, the door to belarus is opening at this moment, but the decision has not been made. unless the member states agree and it's not the decision of the 27, we simply won't invite lukashenko, even though both the opposition and the surrounding countries recommend that we do so. i think that's the one thing that if you ask me right now, i won't be able to answer, so i'm anticipating it. i informed the european council of the meeting and informal summit with president obama on 5 april in connection with the fulfilment of the next priority, namely the transatlantic link. the organization is not yet complete, you will all be informed in detail. the summit will be thematically framed in three main blocks: discussions on the g20 summit, cooperation on energy and climate, where the eu wants to remain a key player, as well as the americans, and the third point will be external relations, the geostrategic area from the mediterranean to the caspian, that is afghanistan, pakistan, the situation in iran, apparently the middle east. the summit with america is important, but it turns out that we should not have exaggerated expectations, no messiah has come. america has a lot of domestic problems to deal with, and that's why it's good that barack obama is making some major speech in prague this year, where he will of course want to send a message to the citizens of the european union about the main positions and the main goals of the new american administration. i think there were a number of other details at the european council which i am prepared to answer. if i have omitted anything, i will fill it in in the debate which will follow the speeches of the group chairmen. i don't think we'll be seeing you in this form again, because you're going to be launching a campaign, and i'd like you not to start doing it right here today. i hope that the fight for individual seats in the european parliament will be fair and that you will meet again after the elections and continue your work.
i would like to thank you, mr president of the european council, also for your determination to continue your work as president of the council, despite the difficult situation in your country.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not mr. topolánek, i think it's very important that you're here. it honors you in your difficult situation. your presence here this morning shows that you are a fighter. but you have not understood until today what the role of the president of the council of the european union is! if you come here to discuss czech domestic policy, then you should not be surprised when we discuss czech domestic policy. but i think you are here as president of the european council. that is why i do not understand your comment about the obstruction of the social democrats. (applause from the centre) moreover, you were ousted by two votes from the ods and two from the greens. so what about the obstruction of your own people? we heard yesterday the speech of a great european leader who, as the host of the g20 summit next week, said the opposite of what you have said here as president of the council. what gordon brown said yesterday is the opposite of what you said here. i quote you, mr president of the council: the path the us is taking is historically wrong. that's what you said a few minutes ago. geithner's way is wrong, and it's the way to hell. this is not the level at which the european union can cooperate with the united states! you do not represent the council of the european union, you represent yourselves! that's the big mistake you're making here. (applause from the centre) and i also understand why people told us at the beginning that it was difficult to have a dialogue with this man. no, mr president-in-office, you are leading the european union into a dead end! the president of the commission said an important phrase today: 'the cancellation of the social summit, the employment summit is a serious mistake'. at a time when millions of people in europe are afraid of losing their jobs, at a time when the bankruptcy of banks and insurance companies, including in the united states, is causing public budgets to have to cover billions, hundreds of billions, trillions of risks - what you call the road to hell - at a time when people know that they will have to pay for this in their tax euros and tax crowns, at a time when the european council is saying to these people: but your employment problems, we are not interested in them. we don't have time for this. that's a deadly signal! it's the wrong signal! i therefore say, mr president of the commission, that your advice to the president of the council is not enough. not a troika, but open to all! the commission is also proposing that the council should invite the summit again so that the heads of state or government can meet their responsibility to discuss the employment situation in europe at the beginning of may. (applause from the centre) mr topolánek, i would like to make three recommendations for the next few days. if the governments of the european union commit themselves to mobilize 1.5% of their gdp in 2009 and 1% in 2010 as a stimulus package, and so far four countries - if i understand this correctly - are meeting these requirements, then this is not enough, and it is your task as president of the council to ensure that the countries themselves meet their commitments. secondly, call the social summit back. show the european public that employment policy and employment protection initiatives are at the heart of government action! thirdly, make sure that there is clarity in the council as to what is to be done on the institutional questions after the elections! i feel sorry for you personally. i know that you have been in favour of ratifying the lisbon treaty. but i know you have a lot of problems with your president. and i also know that there's going to be every effort to stop you from getting this through the senate. we'll help you. if we can somehow, we'll talk to your ods senators to get them to agree to the ratification process. no problem, we're there for you, whatever we can do. but there is something else entirely: you must finally tell us on what basis you intend to proceed. on the basis of the treaty of nice, which is in force, or on the basis of the treaty of lisbon, which is not in force? but to say we start with nice and then we continue a little with lisbon - that is not possible! that is why i say for us: consultation after the european elections, fine. but not until the european parliament is in place. i will not be consulted after 7 june without this parliament having formally met for its first sitting. i think that a minimum of institutional respect will still be required. so, these three points, mr. topolánek, and then you'll regain a little respect with us. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam deputy, democracy also means that all democrats can have a say in what happens in all the countries of the european union and beyond. that too is democracy.
the president-in-office of the council. - seriously, i think we're getting a little too caught up in the pre-election rhetoric. let's look at these things seriously and find the unity of 27 countries, each of them has different not only historical conditions, but also different symptoms of the ongoing financial crisis, different, i would say, impacts on the real economy. if we don't agree on a common approach, then it doesn't really matter who started where at the beginning of this problem, because it's going to be a domino effect that we're all going to pay for. that's note number one. i do not think that i was criticising the american approach on purpose, i was trying to take advantage of the european union. and that advantage is that there is a large social program that allows us to not invest so much money in social stabilization of people who get into trouble. the system just works. our only big task is to keep the system running and guarantee the citizens of the european union the same social standards they had before the crisis. i think that's a big job and it's going to cost a lot of money. we have decided on very specific issues and the figures of eur 5, 50, 75 billion show, i would say, the clear responsibility of the european council to respond to the situation in a very specific way, not just in the form of general measures and frameworks, but in very specific ways. there's a big difference between saying big words on the street and then putting them into practice. our common goal now is to take all the steps that we said we were going to take, implement them, put them into practice, look at the feedback. no one has a clue, and i say this with full responsibility, no macroeconomist has a clue what the implications of these individual steps might be. but we know for a fact that somebody's gonna have to pay for this party. and if we don't look at the situation afterwards, even though we don't know how long it will take, if we don't look at who's going to pay for all this, what it's going to do to the eurozone, what it's going to do to the stability and growth pact, what chance it gives countries like mine to join and adopt the euro, then we would be very irresponsible. i will not respond to comments made by the chairman of the schulz group. he did it before the last election, berlusconi, and i'm not going to repeat his mistake. i think it's unnecessary to respond to some attacks. however, it is not possible that only the money printing presses will profit from this crisis. that would be wrong. job summit: we have of course proposed to the european council a full format, this was the idea of josé manuel barroso and myself, because we feel the same need as you to bring the social partners to a discussion at a higher level than the tripartite, and to discuss with them the problems related to employment, the implementation of the individual national packages and the impact on employment, with the further steps we must take to protect the citizens of the european union from the effects of this crisis. it was not our decision to have this summit as a three-way. i understand the concerns of the various heads of state and i myself have unequivocally supported the full format. on the other hand, we should remember that this would be an informal summit, with no binding conclusions. in this sense, the reduced format could be an advantage, so that the recommendations of this informal summit could be presented to the ordinary june council and, if necessary, be unambiguously approved there. i don't think it's that big a mistake, and there's no need to make it a political issue. the important thing is that we found the courage to convene the summit, that we invited the social partners to attend, that we will prepare with them for a long time - three round tables will be held in stockholm, madrid and prague before this job summit - and that we will try to reach conclusions that will be valuable for the june council. the lisbon treaty: i will make one joke today. i think the phone number for the lisbon treaty is not for prime minister topolánek's office, but for the people's house on jiří paroubek. i have to say that the real responsibility for what happens next falls on those who caused the situation. i will, of course, do everything to honor my commitment and not have to remove my signature from the stone outside the monastery of st. jerome in lisbon. the commission: the december council summit made a very clear decision, we are aware of the complexity of the situation. i must say that our ambition is to reach political agreement at the june european council. we will of course consult you, and a discussion with the european parliament is essential. we are even considering in this context that if the european parliament is so interested in postponing the june council by a week to get 17 days out of the 10 days, and 17 days for debate is, in my view, a sufficient amount of time. these consultations are necessary, but before that formal decision is taken, it will of course be necessary to determine whether we will go under the treaty of nice or the treaty of lisbon, which we will anticipate, what will be the agreement on whether there will be the same number of states, whether they will all have commissioners, etc. we must take account of the outcome of the european elections, and i can only say that we will follow the approved, standard procedure, because we are in a legal vacuum and in a situation which we must be able to resolve both politically and materially. another discussion was whether to regulate or to stimulate packages. i said in the introduction that i think the european union has the perfectly correct approach in not saying this or that and saying we have rescued the banking sector, now we have to clean it up. the commission has drawn up a plan on how to assess individual bad assets (impact assessment), how to address this problem, and in my view the only way to increase confidence in the banking sector and the banking sector is to clean up these banks. i have knowledge of the czech republic, sweden, the us treasury secretary has presented his own american plan. i think it's the only way we can get to the bottom of this. i already mentioned the stimulus packages. the second pillar of the whole package is regulation, which is partly in your hands and partly also mentioned in the de larosière report, which is very well prepared. it's going to be hedge funds, private equity funds, it's going to be an offshore solution, of course. you have to see that the progress of this thing is great, and we are preparing for the potential next crisis with these things. we're not pressed for time at this point to address the new regulation. we're pressed for time to prevent any further problems. the role of the international monetary fund will also be discussed. we agree that the imf should be the manager of the next solutions, but the problem is not that we have few institutions and they have few powers. the problem is whether the biggest players in the global financial market will respect these institutions, which they haven't in the past. that is the fundamental debate, and that will be the problem of the g20: acceptance of the strengthened role of the international monetary fund, the role of the world bank, the role of the oecd in this system of international global financial institutions, and respect for these institutions and their conclusions. i think it's good to say something about the eastern partnership. i met president yushchenko yesterday and i welcome this agreement and i welcome the agreement signed between the european commission and ukraine. it's a major step towards stabilizing the situation. i was in azerbaijan recently, and i spoke to president aliyev. the european union must remain a beacon for these countries, it is not about creating new barriers, it is about the eu's mission, its mission to expand an area of security, an area of freedom, an area of prosperity, an area of solidarity. there are no borders, and that is not to say that these countries will be members of the european union tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or ever. if the light goes out on that beacon, developments in those countries are not under our control. these countries need to be brought into the discussion, to address their freedom of travel, to address their economic cooperation, to address exchange in educational institutions, in schools, to improve governance, i.e. governance. i think that is our duty, and in this sense the eastern partnership is absolutely clear evidence that we are moving in the right direction. as mr bielan said, it was a great success to approve the 600 million in the first place. we didn't all agree on this, there was no clear consensus, this was the maximum possible compromise that 27 states agreed on. i would like to say something about the social implications, perhaps, to conclude. and here i really have to go back to the tripartite and pick up the role of both social partners. we didn't talk about how much money we were gonna send people. we talked about how we could prepare them for this or potentially similar situations to come through upskilling, upskilling, supporting the small and medium-sized businesses that create the most jobs. of course, at a certain point, the price of labor goes down, because in this situation, we want to keep these people in jobs as long as possible, because it's many times more expensive to get them back to work than it is to keep them in the job. labour mobility: i am really looking forward to the discussions in the national parliaments, especially in our own, on how we want to change the labour code to make it more flexible to achieve greater labour mobility. that's the barrier to the solution. we need to address the rapid creation of jobs, the rapid treatment of people who are not in this situation through their own fault. i would like to conclude by saying something about the eu-us summit. i am extremely grateful that after the g20 in london and the strasbourg-kehl summit, the us administration, led by barack obama, is coming to prague. it is very symbolic for us, we will also invite the president of the european parliament, because i feel a certain stench of the fact that the american president will not visit the european parliament. this debate, it's not going to be much time, but i think we need to know what the americans want, what we want and agree on that. we must not create new barriers, which is the fundamental aim of the whole of euro-atlantic civilization. i would like to conclude by saying something about what mrs bobošík has suggested. the czech administration has been handling the situation very well so far. i simply do not agree that we have made some organizational lapses, that we have not been able to cope with one of the most demanding presidencies in recent years, because we are repeatedly faced with all kinds of problems that could hardly have been foreseen. our degree of flexibility, our degree of creativity, our ability to react, to act, to compromise is not something you want to subject to overwhelming criticism. the fact that there is no government with confidence in the czech republic at the moment, it happened in denmark, it happened in italy, it was a change in france, even if it was a change brought about by elections. i would not see it as such a black issue, but i can assure you that the czech presidency will not tolerate this and that all of us who are responsible for managing the eu agenda will undoubtedly manage it.
thank you very much, mr president of the european council. we wish you well in your role as president of the european council and you will do everything to ensure that the lisbon treaty is adopted in your country. with these good wishes, we thank you for coming here this morning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european union has been a lucky charm in the financial and economic crisis. and the czech presidency has done a good job so far. the scale and root causes of the global financial and economic crisis demonstrate the need to redesign the global macroeconomic management of financial markets and the legal framework governing them at national, eu and global levels. the supervisory rules need to be changed and the arrangements for crisis management need to be improved. in this respect, financial sector rules should have the effect of weakening rather than strengthening economic cycles. but it is also true that more regulation does not mean better regulation, it is the right regulation that counts! the dramatic crisis on the international financial markets and the dislocations it has caused are a challenge to the liberal economic order. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial system is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis. the independence of the european central bank and its orientation towards monetary stability is right and has proved its worth. it has also shown the importance of the common market for prosperity and stability in europe. the single market plays a key role in shortening and mitigating the recession in europe. the measures taken by the member states to support the real economy should therefore be swift, targeted and limited in time, because we know that the eu can create prosperity by further developing the internal market, but not by distributing subsidies. e european union must therefore continue to work consistently towards completing the internal market and providing the framework for effective competition. but it's also clear that the test has not been passed. the european union must stand by its principles. there must be no relapse into outmoded thinking, protectionism, isolationism or a race for subsidies. the czech presidency stands for this and i hope we can continue to do so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am surprised that the president of the council, who only yesterday received a vote of no confidence from his own parliament, is going to court with the failed policies of the past. the path the united states has taken, he says, is historically discredited. what he's saying is obviously that you can't rely on social incentives in times of crisis, and he's obviously saying that you shouldn't pressure aig executives to pay back their bonuses. but he also seems to think that he can limit responsibility for the financial crisis, for the economic crisis, to the actions of the usa in the past and not have to question self-critically the extent to which the strategy of commercialisation, of competitive pressure and also of unbridled globalisation by the eu itself has contributed to this. i believe that this is reflected in the conclusions of the summit, in the relevant passages. it also stresses that the renewed lisbon strategy, including the guidelines incorporated therein, provides the appropriate framework for further growth and employment in the current crisis. however, it was also very clearly stated in the accompanying documents that there must of course be a link with the orientation towards sustainable public finances and, in this context, with the continuation of the pension reform. i'm surprised at you. the continuation of pension reform is linked to the continuation of the privatisation of pension systems, to the increase in the share of pension provision with capital! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but it was precisely the explosion of liquid money capital that led to this social division, the division of income distribution. this is where the corrections should be applied. i cannot understand why the commission and the council did not make the necessary corrections in their discussions at the summit. when we speak of the lisbon strategy, we must also refer to the commission's white paper on financial services for 2005-2010, which focuses on the integration of the european financial services market into the global financial services market, and also to the relevant articles of the nice and lisbon treaties, which on the one hand prohibit any restriction on the free flow of capital and on the other hand also urge financial institutions to ensure the unimpeded flow of financial services. this is in direct contradiction to any form of combating the causes of crises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to congratulate the czech presidency. it has succeeded in advancing the european agenda despite considerable domestic political problems, and in the midst of the worst economic and financial crisis in decades! the european union is also committed to the development of the internal market and the fight against fraud. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. he welcomes mr brown, who was chancellor of the exchequer before becoming prime minister and was therefore responsible for the financial policy and the framework conditions of the european union and of the united kingdom. it has been said here on several occasions that only a change in the attitude of the united kingdom will enable us to take the necessary regulatory measures. how can one today call the one who has impeded this for a decade the savior? i don't understand what you're saying! the czech prime minister's criticism of the us monetary policy is justified in every respect. we cannot solve the problems by the same means that caused the crisis, namely excessive monetary growth and too many lives at the expense of others, at the expense of the economy! living on pump that's the problem! the first thing we need to do is to overcome the financial crisis, to change the imbalances in the world, to tackle together the challenges of climate change, of combating poverty and to establish a new morality in the world based on the social market economy. and if we succeed in doing so in this crisis, then the czech presidency of the council will have fully met our expectations, regardless of the outcome of the lisbon treaty and the internal political situation in the czech republic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was very pleased to see mr vondra here in the plenary this morning and i am pleased about the signal from the presidency of the council to continue working. i believe that we are doing europe a disservice, especially in the midst of the crisis, if we do not all work together to make the czech presidency of the council work. from what i hear from the czech republic, the government will remain in office as an executive, because the majority that met yesterday is not enough to support a new government. i believe that this kind of stability, i.e. solidarity with the czech presidency of the council, is indispensable in the crisis. i would also appeal to many western europeans, for example the french, to put their hat back a little to the east, because the european crisis has finally begun with the french referendum! i want to see more courageous leadership on climate and inclusion in what is needed now. we must do something new to get ahead in this crisis. the colleague is right, we live on a dime. but we are also living on a budget, in terms of the environment and the climate. we have wasted resources without end. we are not sustainable. the un, ban ki-moon, the world bank, they all tell us that what's happening in china now, what's happening in south korea -- that more than half of the national economic programs are devoted to climate action and sustainable development -- is the right thing to do, and that's where the future lies. but unfortunately, the european council is not showing that kind of courage at the moment. i don't think it's just the czech republic. i'm sorry to hear that.
thank you very much, madam president. you're absolutely right. we are all sinners, some more, some less.
mr president, we are against inflation in money, we are also against inflation in speaking time.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! you'll see i was better off sitting there. first of all, i would like to say, in contrast to mr schulz, that the czech presidency of the council under prime minister topolánek has been an excellent presidency of the council so far. (applause from the centre) and i am proud that this was and is the first council presidency from a former warsaw pact country that deserves all the support to symbolize european unity in this too. the second point i would like to make is that we are now in a difficult situation with regard to the treaty of lisbon. i would like to join in the call for prime minister topolánek and opposition leader paroubek to sit down now and negotiate responsibly. for it is not possible that domestic reasons have any bearing on the fate of europe as a whole. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr schulz should not tell us that he alone is committed to social europe! the opposite is true!
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me make a brief summary from the perspective of the council and the czech presidency. já myslím, že teď jsme v jakémsi pomyslném poločase českého předsednictví, a chci poděkovat těm z vás, kteří oceňovali vykonanou práci, a nebylo vás málo. samozřejmě úcta za vytrvalou práci sedm dní v týdnu 20 hodin denně v tomto smyslu potěší a to, k čemu jsme došli na evropské radě minulý týden a rozhodnutí, která jsme tam učinili, jsou rozhodnutí zásadní a důležitá. těm z vás, kteří máte určité pochybnosti, otázky, tak chci říci jedno. nechte tato opatření, tato rozhodnutí pracovat, nechte ukázat, jak budou uvedena v život, protože já jsem přesvědčen, že mají svou sílu, mají svou působnost a zúročí se při potýkání se s touto největší hospodářskou krizí, která evropskou unii postihla. konkrétní rozhodnutí ohledně 5 miliard na energetické projekty a broadband internet jsou důležitá. jsou důležitá v kontextu plynové krize, protože tady ukazujeme, že evropská unie je schopná krátkodobě jednat a reagovat na potřeby mnoha zemí v evropě. rozhodnutí týkající se 25 miliard na navýšení stropu tak, abychom byli schopni pomáhat zemím v evropské unii, které se dostanou do potíží, je také velmi důležité. a rozhodnutí o 75 miliardách eur, s kterými jedeme na schůzku g20 do londýna, je jasným signálem, že evropská unie je připravena převzít svůj díl odpovědnosti při reformě globálních finančních institucí. chci zdůraznit také jedno a někteří z vás na to poukázali mimo rámec zasedání evropské rady, tedy že v posledních týdnech probíhala mravenčí práce na některých legislativních návrzích a nikoliv náhodou, ale díky vytrvalé práci rady pod vedením českého předsednictví se podařilo v trialozích dosáhnout shody na zcela zásadních reformních návrzích. energetický balíček o vnitřním trhu s energiemi, s plynem a s elektřinou, letecký balíček o revizi jednotného evropského nebe, silniční balíček, který modernizuje přístup na trh silniční dopravy včetně citlivého problému kabotáže, regulace roamingu a konečně i pesticidový balíček mohou být konkrétními výsledky práce za poslední dva až tři měsíce. a chci tady poděkovat i evropskému parlamentu, protože je to společná práce mezi námi, komisí a mezi evropským parlamentem. jiný příklad: 10 let se jednalo bez jakýchkoliv výsledků o snížené sazbě dph pro některé sektory s vysokou náročností nebo s vysokým podílem lidské práce a bylo to teprve pod vedením českého ministra financí v ecofinu, kdy se podařilo dosáhnout dohody, která byla stvrzena nyní na evropské radě. mnoho z vás má řadu otázek, jak se budeme potýkat s problémem nezaměstnanosti. znovu zdůrazňuji to, co tu říkal již premiér, platí dohoda mezi předsednictvím a evropskou komisí, že 7. května se job summit v tom formátu, jak jsme se na evropské radě shodli, bude konat a navrhne konkrétní opatření pro červnovou evropskou radu. čili budeme o tom mluvit dále. hodně vašich připomínek se týkalo problému otevřenosti evropské unie. chci zdůraznit, že pod našim předsednictvím u příležitosti 5. výročí velkého rozšíření evropské unie se konala ve spolupráci s evropskou komisí v praze konference „pět let poté“ a ta jasně prokázala na konkrétních číslech, které připravili odborníci z ekonomické oblasti, že rozšíření byl snad vůbec nejúspěšnější projekt v moderní historii evropské unie a že se na těch pěti letech dá jasně dokázat, že to byl přínos pro nové i staré členské státy. východní partnerství: shodli jsme se na deklaraci, že budeme mít 7. května ustavující summit a pracujeme s jeho budoucími členy, jako je ukrajina, tak, aby to skutečně byl úspěch pro evropskou unii a konec konců pondělní konference na téma plynové infrastruktury, která se konala zásluhou evropské komise v bruselu a která dospěla k deklaraci ohledně modernizace plynové infrastruktury na ukrajině tak, aby bylo zabráněno v budoucnosti podobným krizím jako v lednu tohoto roku, je dalším příkladem úspěšné práce. ty z vás, kteří mají jakékoliv pochybnosti, chci ujistit v jedné věci. ano, máme doma problémy a dobře víme, kdo hlasování o nedůvěře inicioval. byl to jiří paroubek, vůdce českých sociálních demokratů. my však jsme zodpovědná vláda, poradíme si s touto situací a není to jakýkoliv důvod k obavám. české předsednictví v poločase jistě může konstatovat, že ten druhý poločas bude stejně dobrý, jako byl ten první, stejně zodpovědný a na konci nepochybně budeme slavit stejné úspěchy, jako jste tu dnes vzpomínali, pokud jde o hodnocení práce za leden, únor a březen. čili chci vás ujistit, bereme to vážně, bereme to zodpovědně, není jakýkoliv důvod k obavám.
mr vondra, many colleagues have thanked the czech presidency for its contribution. i did so at the beginning, in the presence of prime minister topolánek. i would like to thank you for your very committed personal contribution. we want to encourage you to continue as you have just said, so that the czech presidency will be as successful in its second half as it was in its first half. good luck for the continuation of your work.
president of the commission. − mr president, let me once again underline the excellent cooperation that we have had with the czech presidency. the czech presidency is making a great effort for europe in a very difficult situation and i think they deserve our full support. let me conclude. whenever i conclude, i see crowds coming in to listen! (laughter) let me conclude by welcoming the broad support for the results of the european council. there is not unanimity, but i think it is a fair assessment to say that by and large there was a recognition that it was an important set of conclusions, and i am encouraged by what i see as a shared sense of commitment by all three institutions – parliament, the council and the commission – to join forces in order to pull europe through the crisis. we can be proud of what we have decided, but there should be no room for complacency. more has to be done, and we should keep our focus, but we will gain, we will succeed in these efforts if we show our confidence. confidence has to be the key word: confidence in our capacity to deliver what we have promised; confidence in action and implementation, and, as i said earlier, implementation, not gesticulation. frankly, i do not believe that confidence will improve by announcing a new plan every month or every week. confidence is improved if we concentrate on the implementation of what was collectively agreed and also on the effective coordination of these efforts. confidence is needed in our ability to push our regulatory agenda: without regulatory form we will not create the confidence that change will have a lasting effect. confidence is needed in the validity and the solidity of the euro area and our ability to mobilise the necessary support for every member state in the euro area or outside the euro area which needs it. there is also a need for confidence in our shared commitment to preserve our particular brand of social market economy, and in our long-term agenda for a low-carbon economy. i really believe that it is not with self-defeating speeches and some kind of inferiority complex regarding the united states of america that we will succeed. in fact, what i see today is that the americans are coming closer to what have been traditionally european positions. americans are coming closer to our position regarding the fight against climate change, and we welcome that. americans are coming closer to the need to reinforce the welfare system. therefore, i really do not believe that the debate i sometimes hear – suggesting that americans and europeans are coming with very different approaches to the crisis – is a helpful debate. on the contrary, what we are seeing is increased convergence between europe and the united states and hopefully others – because it is not just for us and the americans – and that is why i am confident about a positive result of the g20 summit. i think it is important to believe that it is with ourselves and not with others that we will solve the situation. it is important to have confidence in what are the european instruments, and this enlarged europe, with our coordinated action in fighting this recession, will be in a position to respond to the most important concerns of our citizens, including, of course, the one that is my first concern, i.e. rising unemployment. to conclude, that is why i think we should build on what was already agreed and focus now on implementation, with strong coordination and a strong commitment to concrete results. (applause)
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have to say, madam president, it's very simple. if you do not want this man to preside over the opening ceremony of the european parliament, you should agree to my motion for a change of rules of procedure! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a motion for a resolution. i would like to quote from the letter which president pöttering wrote to me as chairman of the committee on international trade. i'm not quoting the whole letter, don't worry. other the interpretation of rule 47 by afco to which you refer was announced at parliament's sitting of 18 february 2009, and, in the absence of objections, was deemed adopted. the commission shall: the proposals concerning the two epas [i.e. the reports by david martin and erika mann] were formally announced and referred to your committee [i.e. the committee on international trade] only at the sitting of 19 february 2009. in the light of the above interpretation, it will no longer be possible to apply rule 47 in relation to those two procedures, nor to any further procedures. it follows that all references to article 47 in the official documents should be deleted. this applies both to the cover page of the document and to the table of contents, to the page of the opinion and also to the procedural page, the last page of the inta committee. i ask that this be entered in the minutes.
rapporteur. − madam president, i will be very brief. i would just like to thank my colleagues and to recommend a positive vote in the assent procedure. however, i would love to have commissioner ashton’s confirmation again on the points we raised during our debate on monday – specifically, commissioner, when you committed yourself to giving the same preferences to côte d’ivoire that you had already accepted for sadc. you are nodding – perfect! thank you so much.
i have to say, madam president, i refer to rule 146 of our rules of procedure and thank you for giving me the floor. i would ask the german colleagues to understand that i am now asking to speak. at the beginning of this vote, mr jean-marie le pen took the floor. mr le pen has repeated in his speech that the existence of gas chambers at auschwitz is a detail of world history. i would ask the bureau to consider whether such a statement is admissible in a chamber of deputies which is committed to the spirit of reconciliation and understanding and to respect for the victims, especially of hitlerite fascism. i would be grateful if the bureau could discuss appropriate measures. (applause from the centre)
madam president, i would ask the president of the house to consider, in spite of what martin schulz said, that we should follow voltaire, especially as i come from a liberal group: even if i did not share an iota of what this person had to say, i consider that he has the right to express his view – as those two had. i believe in equal treatment, and we can deal with an opinion. we should not take away the right of free speech on this issue, even if i do not agree at all with what he has to say.
i have to say, madam president, the novel food regulation brings us the harmonization of the authorization and use of these novel foods and food ingredients in the european union. this is an important step towards ensuring food safety on a global scale. without the regulation, we would have no control and no restriction of authorization. we are setting strict criteria in this regulation to protect consumers. the european food safety authority will be the final authority when it approves the safety of these novel foods, and that will bring about harmonization throughout europe. in addition to safety concerns, ethical issues are also very important when it comes to novel foods. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i therefore welcome the fact that these ethical aspects are taken into account in the approval process. we want to see the european group on ethics in science and new technologies taking an opinion into account in cases of ethical reservations. i appreciate this being recorded. i was therefore able to agree to the overall report.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i apologise for being a bit late due to a meeting of the conference of committee chairs here. in fact i arrived only this morning from washington. i would like to thank you for your invitation to participate in this important and timely debate on transatlantic relations and to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr millán mon, for the valuable and wide-ranging report that i read during my trip with great interest. there is much in the report with which the presidency, and the council, can agree. whatever our political background, we all know that the transatlantic relationship is vital to our future, to the future of europe. for six decades, the solid transatlantic partnership has been the leading force for peace, stability and prosperity for europe and north america, and for the entire world. i claim that this is not just history. this is the best possible agenda for the 21st century, too. the transatlantic relationship allows us to achieve together results which neither partner alone can deliver. i would quote here vice-president joe biden during his first trip to munich, when he clearly said that america needs europe and europe needs america. i think that we can fully understand this kind of statement. when we agree, we can set the terms of the global agenda. when we disagree, it is difficult to take forward any agenda, so the transatlantic relationship allows us to achieve together results which we cannot achieve alone. last november’s us presidential election generated an unprecedented degree of enthusiasm, expectation and interest here in europe. this is because the choice of us president matters to europeans. president obama has indicated a new approach to the challenges we face. many in europe were attracted to this change and the spirit of change. high expectations were created on both sides of the atlantic. these expectations represent an opportunity for our mutual cooperation at times when we most need it. but they need to be carefully managed because nothing would be more damaging for our relationship than unfulfilled hopes – and the higher the hopes are, the harder it is to satisfy them. the new administration has made an energetic start. as expected, much of the president’s agenda has focused on the economic and financial crisis. it was encouraging to see early decisions on guantánamo – we were talking about that here just a few weeks ago – a renewed commitment to engage on the middle east, and the convening of the conference on afghanistan, which will be held on 31 may in the hague. all these initiatives are what many in europe have been calling for. the dialogue with the us has been reinvigorated. from my contacts with the new administration, including the meetings with vice-president biden and secretary of state clinton here in brussels, it is clear that the us wishes to set a new tone with the eu and our partners. i welcome the pragmatic approach which has characterised these early contacts. while the change of tone is important, it does not of course in itself deliver concrete outcomes. if we are to work constructively together we must review together our policy priorities, and reassess the way in which the transatlantic partnership functions. your report is a valuable contribution to that process. it is, of course, a process which began on the eu side last year when the foreign ministers discussed transatlantic relations at the two informal meetings in avignon and marseille. i think some thanks are due here both to the french presidency for initiating that and to portugal, which also played a role. it is a process which will need to continue to be developed over the coming months. an excellent opportunity will present itself next week at the informal meeting of heads of state and government with the us president in prague. the transatlantic relationship is rich and varied and includes a number of policy areas. i cannot touch on all of them but i would like to highlight those that we would like to address in particular at the forthcoming meeting in prague. firstly, energy security and climate change. these interconnected topics are of concern to a great many europeans. energy security is a key priority which needs to be pursued via a comprehensive strategy covering energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energy resources as well as the diversification of energy supplies, sources and routes. wherever possible and necessary the eu and us should cooperate in these areas and promote a common agenda. on climate, this year will be critical. the united nations climate change conference in copenhagen in late december presents a historic opportunity to revise and widen the application of binding international targets to address climate change. the eu has established ambitious energy and climate change commitments in advance of the conference. president obama’s statements and appointments in relation to climate change appear to signal an important policy shift, but much hard work lies ahead here. of course, support from the us on this issue is vital, but it is not enough. we must also secure backing from advanced developing countries such as china. secondly, the economic and financial crisis. the current crisis is both severe and global and requires a strong policy response at all levels and across the world. the eu and the us have a particular responsibility in this context, both in terms of the measures they take at home and in terms of international coordination. we must cooperate with the us to ensure that we deliver a coordinated response to the current global crisis and financial problems. we must work together to address the issue of the supervision of the financial system and the reform of international financial institutions. we must also coordinate our policies for enhanced growth and employment. we must make sure that the approaches we choose are compatible and do not give rise to distortions of competition in the transatlantic market place. much of this will take place in groups such as the g8 and g20, in particular during the g20 summit in london with which president obama’s visit to europe will start. but it is clear that the transatlantic relationship will be key in setting the wider global agenda. thirdly, afghanistan is a key issue for both europe and the us. this is a joint problem – terrorist attacks in both the us and europe have their origins in the region. it is an important, and uneasy, challenge for all european political leaders to explain to their citizens that their own security must be defended in kabul. afghanistan was also the main subject of an informal meeting of the eu troika with vice-president biden in brussels on 10 march. the vice-president expressed the hope that afghanistan would remain at the top of the eu agenda. he was clear that the us was looking not just for our support for the overall strategy in afghanistan, but also for commitment to match that support with concrete resources. knowing that the question of security of afghan citizens is of major concern, we have undertaken to increase the size of our police mission in the country. in addition to the eupol civilian mission, military police are needed, the ‘gendarmeries’ which we are talking about. in this respect, sending gendarmerie trainers on site, as an eu contribution to the nato mission, is an option which the presidency has been discussing with the freshly appointed special envoy for pakistan and afghanistan amongst eu countries. i have met pierre lellouche from france, for example, and we are also discussing this with dick holbrooke. we must also ensure that the conditions are in place for the presidential elections in afghanistan to be a success and we must keep the regional aspect in mind, in particular by giving further assistance to the development of sustainable civil government in pakistan. so this regional dimension is very important and we are taking account of this in addition to the national dimension and then the global one. fourthly, a multilateral response will be crucial to address the risk of proliferation of the weapons of mass destruction. the eu and the us have expressed growing concerns about the nuclear activities of iran in particular and its failure to comply with its international obligations in the nuclear area. the eu and the us together need to ensure that the development of nuclear technology is limited to legitimate, civilian purposes. the best way of achieving this is to establish strong, internationally binding rules, backed by credible verification mechanisms. at the same time the eu and the us are ready to engage with iran in constructive approaches to this and other problems in the region. a further challenge that we face is how to work together to strengthen the practical applications of rules-based multilateralism based on our shared values. there is much that we can do together here. i agree with president obama’s sentiment, underlined by both secretary clinton and vice-president biden, that any choice between security and ideals is a false one. in this respect i welcome president obama’s intention to move towards closure of guantánamo. we also welcome president obama’s early engagement in addressing the arab-israeli conflict, including the appointment of george mitchell as the special envoy for the region. a lasting peace that addresses the aspirations of both israelis and palestinians is of vital importance to the people of the region and remains a key objective for both the eu and the us. a peace deal also has the potential to deliver wider benefits, not least greater understanding between the west and the wider islamic world. i have read with interest the many recommendations in your report regarding the institutional structure of the transatlantic relationship. i very much agree that the institutional links between the eu and us should reflect the importance of the relationship. the initiatives taken by the czech presidency serve to underline this point. we have engaged with the us, and the new administration, at every level from the outset. and in 10 days’ time the presidency will welcome president obama to prague for an informal summit with eu heads of state and government. as i have said, this will be an opportunity to assess a number of dimensions of the transatlantic relationship and to confirm our willingness to work together. these discussions will continue, for example, by holding regular informal meetings of the eu and us foreign ministers. i also believe that there is a merit in more regular and close contacts between the european parliament and the us congress. i am grateful to this parliament for its continuing support for the development of the transatlantic relationship, and in particular for your report. we have a new opportunity this year to develop the relationship further. for this presidency, and for the council, the transatlantic partnership has always been of strategic importance to europe as a whole. i can assure you that the czech presidency is committed to ensuring that it remains at the heart of our wider external strategy and will play a determining role in addressing the many challenges and problems which confront us globally today.
member of the commission. − mr president, eu-us relations have had a positive, fresh start under the new administration of president obama. in the commission we are all working very hard to contribute our fair share to our common reinvigorated agenda. that is also why i appreciate this timely debate. i am pleased that parliament and the commission seem to see eye to eye on many priorities here. we are looking forward to a busy eu-us calendar. my opening remarks will focus on our immediate ‘to do’ list, but i would also like to stress at the beginning two points with regard to eu-us institutional structures. firstly, i believe that stronger links between the eu and us legislators are vital for a successful transatlantic partnership. secondly, i will be following up on the report’s recommendations with regard to an overhaul of the new transatlantic agenda of 1995. like many others, i have already met secretary of state clinton on various occasions and i also spoke to vice-president biden when he was in brussels very recently. one thing is clear: this us administration will look for reliable partners in tackling all the global and regional challenges, and they identify europe as their partner of choice on reliability. we must seize this opportunity. but, at the same time, they will also be looking for the european union to bring specific ‘deliverables’ to the table – not least on difficult issues such as afghanistan and the closure of guantánamo. we must therefore develop clear positions based on our own common interests, and speak with one voice. let me be clear: this crucial transatlantic friendship is not a one-way street. europe and the european union need to deliver. a strong eu is thus an important partner for the us in tackling global challenges. i believe we should focus initially on a limited number of priorities. the very difficult state of the world economy is of course the backdrop to all that we do. the prime goal is greater cooperation between the european union, the united states and other major players on macroeconomic policy and reforming regulation of the financial sector. we must coordinate better to promote a recovery in demand and employment, and we have to ensure that our policies are mutually supporting and do not distort trade. protectionist elements on both sides of the atlantic need to be resisted. the european union and the us should work closely together to implement the outcome of next week’s g20 summit, including developing compatible approaches to reforming the regulation of the financial sector. the last european council in brussels made a great step in that direction. we must also look after the transatlantic economy, which accounts for half of the world’s output and trade. your report very rightly places a heavy emphasis on this issue. we should boost the transatlantic economic council (tec) to make it more effective in removing regulatory barriers and promoting growth, while at the same time making it more strategic in outlook. the tec – as it is called – should be able to discuss, for instance, how to avoid a beggar-thy-neighbour policy in national recovery plans. on climate change: for the first time in a decade, eu and us policies are starting to converge. we should concentrate on getting a deal at copenhagen in december. we need to lead jointly by example, to get china and india on board in a multilateral agreement and to launch an integrated carbon market as part of the future global market. we both need to promote the message that clean, efficient technologies and ‘green jobs’ can play a role in economic recovery. president obama has already rightly emphasised this point. this also means bringing our energy research programmes into closer cooperation and reinforcing our dialogue on energy security – as our president has also said. with regard to foreign assistance and development policy, both president obama and secretary of state clinton have highlighted their importance as part of a full-scope foreign policy. this plays very much to the eu’s strengths as the world’s largest donor. we should seek renewed us commitment to the millennium development goals and relaunch eu-us dialogue on development cooperation, with a focus on issues such as aid effectiveness and policy coherence. the economy is at the top of president obama’s agenda, but the us has also been quick to review the main foreign policy issues. on afghanistan and pakistan: the new administration agrees on the importance of a more comprehensive policy – to add a civilian surge in parallel to a military surge. the new us emphasis on civilian capacity-building and the regional approach focusing on pakistan converge with longstanding eu policies. the commission’s efforts in afghanistan include support for police training, reform of the judiciary and promoting alternative livelihoods in rural areas, for instance to combat drug cultivation. i have also received clear signals of us support – including from vice-president biden himself – for our active work in preparation towards a possible eu election observation mission in afghanistan, provided that security requirements are met. i am actively looking at whether we can provide additional funding in all of these areas. the other day we also discussed it with richard holbrooke, the special envoy for both afghanistan and pakistan. we are looking forward to being at the regional conference in the hague and also at the conference on pakistan in tokyo. similarly, in the middle east we have been asking for closer us engagement from the very outset. we were encouraged by secretary clinton’s presence at the sharm el-sheik conference and also her active involvement through the first quartet by her presence. we should discuss how best to engage both the new israeli government – and hopefully also a palestinian national unity government – in order to build a two-state solution. we are encouraged that the obama administration wants to engage with the rest of the region, including syria. we should also work with the us on engaging in iran – as has already been said – as part of preventing nuclear proliferation in the region, reinforcing our work on both the incentives and sanctions track. the eu also plays a major role in our eastern neighbourhood. we will stay in close touch with the us on our work to promote democratic and market-oriented reforms in the region, including via the new eastern partnership, which pursues the objectives of political association and economic integration with our six neighbours to the east. we will speak with the us more than in the past about how to engage with strategic partners such as russia and china, as well as latin america. most immediately, i want to ensure that the eu’s meeting with president obama in prague on 5 april takes the relationship forward in a tangible way, already focusing on concrete results. this will then set the scene for a successful eu-us summit in washington, probably in june. june will also be the occasion to elaborate a renewed transatlantic agenda and a sustainable programme of practical eu-us cooperation.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr millán mon, for presenting this excellent report, which covers all the points necessary for a fair transatlantic relationship. the present draft resolution on the state of transatlantic relations after the us elections shows the importance of these relations. according to the commission, nearly 14 million jobs in the european union and the united states depend on these transatlantic economic and investment links. i hope that the new president of the united states, as he said before his election in his speech in berlin in july 2008, will attach great importance to these relations. he said at the time that america had no better partner than europe. we note in the resolution that this partnership is also the most important strategic partnership for europe. this partnership is essential to meet global challenges, especially in the current global financial and economic crisis. the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt, and it is not a party to the gatt. in the european union we have particularly high standards, for example in consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection. we want these standards to be applied to products shipped from the united states to europe. i hope that the new president and his new administration will work to bring these standards to the united states. we'll have no problem with that. i am convinced that this resolution will be very well received tomorrow, because i believe that it contains everything that is necessary for good relations.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union and its member states and the united states of america are the bearers of freedom and democracy. they are bound by values like hardly anyone else in the world of states on this earth. the united states has just demonstrated once again, in the last elections, its capacity for renewal and rejuvenation in this process of values and democratic orientation. in this global order - as the financial crisis has shown once again - it is therefore of great interest that we europeans work more closely with the americans and link our interests more closely, because only then can we set standards and deepen relations between our countries. that is why i consider the report by mr millan mon to be extremely important at this stage. we must strive to encourage the transatlantic economic council to pursue a policy of eliminating non-tariff barriers to trade, in order to ensure that interests are linked, that a transatlantic market is achieved and that political relations are deepened in the long term. it is recognised that this can only be done with the involvement of parliaments - because it is only through parliaments that much of the regulation can be adapted - and that this process and the proposals related to the transatlantic legislators' dialogue and the transatlantic assembly are of great importance. it is also crucial that we develop longterm strategies today, that we are able to make joint planning considerations, that we know on both sides what our common interests are in ten, twenty years' time, so that we can set our practical policies accordingly. i also believe that this is an approach for the czech presidency of the council to put a special emphasis on the meeting with the americans here on 5 april, in order to achieve a stronger link in the common interest in this way too. a final remark: all this will only work if the european union is a strong and credible partner, if it has something like the treaty of lisbon, if it is given the capacity to act in foreign policy. i would therefore ask you to take this opportunity to protect our interests and to remember that we need to take these steps forward so that we can enter into a genuine partnership with the united states of america on an equal footing.
mr president, i should like to say a few words about our economic relationship. i should like to thank my colleague mr millán mon for his excellent report. we need to remind ourselves of what we want to achieve. i mean, it was the european parliament, with support much later from the council and the commission, which came up with this idea of having a stronger economic relationship and creating a transatlantic market. this idea of a transatlantic market was followed by the transatlantic economic council (tec). each of those initiatives can only survive if there is strong support from both sides. having a new government in the united states does not automatically mean that we will have strong support for the economic council, since we are occupied with an enormous economic and financial crisis. therefore, i would urge both the commission and the council to ensure that the transatlantic economic council will be given all the support necessary, because this is not automatically given. i would just like to remind you of three items on the agenda that are highly important and which we somehow need to solve. one is the trade dispute agenda. this agenda is still very broad, but i would like to concentrate on one subject that is important and this is the airbus-boeing case, which is before the wto and is being postponed continuously. i would urge you to find a solution. it is not on the tec agenda, but we need to find a solution soon, otherwise we will have difficulty in a major sector. my second plea is for you to ensure that we will finally have a road map and that we will have transparency on what kinds of items are debated in the tec. we have asked for this many times. i know the council is working on it, but we still have not made good progress. we would like to have a hearing on container security on both sides very soon. this was agreed at our last tec meeting, but a follow-up will be needed. my last point is: make sure that, on energy-intensive industries, you will bring to the attention of the tec the idea of identifying a benchmark together. that is the only way the problems in the energy-intensive industries will be solved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the vast majority of people in the european union, probably the majority of the governments of the european union and almost certainly the majority in this house, wanted barack obama to become president in november. this is good, although some of the speeches in this debate may have given rise to a slight scepticism as to whether this was all that good. yes, europe will have to defend its own positions with confidence in the future too! but the days of making derogatory comments about the united states are over, because it is no longer convenient to blame everything on george bush. and that presents us with a challenge. the european union's policy on transatlantic relations, the policy of this parliament, can no longer be to make demands on the united states, but we must now also answer what we want to contribute to make this partnership effective. let us take the example of afghanistan, which has been mentioned many times. what do we as the european union want to do to improve and strengthen the police mission to promote civilian assistance and civilian reconstruction in this country? this would be our task as the eu the military part can be dealt with in the context of nato. but there's something we need to talk about very specifically. what could it be that we have to offer?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have been dealing with the interim agreement with turkmenistan in the european parliament for almost three years. we were already at the point almost three years ago where we adopted a report in the committee on external trade, but then it was not put to the vote in the plenary, partly because the council and the commission had not dealt with the subject in a serious manner at the time and we said in parliament that if the commission and the council did not take the lead on this, we would not have to follow suit. i am particularly pleased that we have a different situation today, even though the situation in turkmenistan is still far from what we imagine. human rights are still not respected in many areas. there are many legitimate criticisms of the lack of democratic structure in this country. the freedoms of the people are extremely restricted. freedom of information in this country is extremely lacking. at the moment, there is apparently a campaign to remove satellite dishes, and thus further impede access to free media, based on information that ngos are asking us to provide. the education system is still not up to the standard we envisage for educating people who are informed and, above all, capable of making decisions in the field of democracy and human rights. the situation in prisons - the question of political prisoners, the question of the red cross' access to these prisons - is also still completely unsatisfactory and unresolved. on the other hand, there are also a number of unjustified criticisms that are made of us again and again. there have been many false reports in recent years from so-called non-governmental organizations. i have almost got the impression from some of the ngos that there may be companies from other countries behind them, whose interest is to prevent talks between the european union and turkmenistan from taking place. i had the impression that behind some of the statements and some of the misinformation that was being circulated towards the european union was a very conscious interest in hindering the talks between the european union and turkmenistan. i am thinking of reports that all the hospitals in the country have been closed except for two in the capital, that all the libraries have been closed except for two, that there has been an outbreak of plague because the medical conditions are supposedly so catastrophic. these reports have all turned out to be false reports. but what is the main problem? it is not at all possible to get a realistic picture of this country, firstly because the government there does not allow us to see the country properly, and secondly because, of course, as the european union, we do not yet have an external service that could be active there. but we see that the new president is making some reforms. the european union's central asia strategy, which we adopted here in parliament some time ago, also focuses on the central asian countries. this interim agreement can be a possible first small step to make it clear to the turkmen that we are taking up the conversation, moving forward in dialogue and also helping them to walk the path towards human rights and democracy - albeit slowly, but hopefully steadily. our resolution, which we have tabled as a resolution by many groups in this parliament, clearly addresses a number of the criticisms. it also clearly addresses some of the positive developments we have seen, but what we are concerned about is this: we do not want to give a free ticket, we do not want to sell values that are important to us to turkmenistan, but we want to defend and maintain our values. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have put a number of questions in writing to the commission and the council as a parliament. i would be glad if you could answer this and give us very definite answers so that we can hopefully get this interim agreement under way together tomorrow.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner and mr vondra, for the council, for their explanation, but i am certain they felt that there is still some hesitation on our part in giving them our full support. i think it is easy to understand, because we have a very simple case. the difficulty arises because for the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca), parliament will have to give its assent, whereas this is not the case for the interim trade agreement because of our legal obligations. because of this, when it comes to the interim trade agreement, in our resolution we can only highlight our points and raise our concerns and give support with regard to certain topics; but because of this parliament, and specifically my political group, is hesitating in giving its full support for the interim trade agreement. i hope this is understandable to you and i hope you can solve the problem. i know that, because of the legal process and, because you have already signed the legal basis, it is very difficult, if not impossible, for you to renegotiate. we are fully aware of the facts, but i am certain you can find some form of commitment and look into further developing and exploring legal bases on which you can help our side to be on your side, because we all recognise how important turkmenistan is and we have already given support with regard to other agreements. so it is not that we are not fully aware of what has happened and it is not the case that we are not aware how important turkmenistan is, but it is a very problematic case. i would like you to look into this again and that is why i specifically ask you to do me a favour: look into our paragraph 11, where we raise our concern with regard to the legal obligation and the differences between the interim trade agreement and the partnership and cooperation agreement. please recognise paragraph 9 of our resolution, which talks about the inclusion of the human rights clause in the pca agreement. commissioner, i am aware of and took note of your points, but i am certain there is something you can do to further explore how we can strengthen this particular point. the same is true for paragraph 10, and this is important for the council as well. we would like to see a revision clause. i know it is not included but, again, please do us a favour, look into it and see what you can do when you continue to negotiate. if you could do something about paragraph 8, this would be more than helpful for us; it relates to monitoring which we always like to have and which we are constantly asking for. monitoring does not mean that we want to sit at the negotiating table. we have done this under other circumstances, so look at what you can do here, how you can be helpful in defining what monitoring means, but do us a favour and look at the case. by the way, i think you have done great work. all the points are covered in the new eu-central asia partnership agreement for the 21st century. you even covered the ilo recommendation. you covered human right issues so i am certain we can find a compromise, but a little bit of work still needs to be done.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament has already made clear, a year ago, what progress it considers necessary to make in order to give its consent to the ec-turkmenistan trade agreement. these were relatively easy demands to meet: free and unhindered access for the international red cross, the release of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience, the abolition of all state travel restrictions, easier access and working conditions for ngos and also for un organisations, and a comprehensive reform of the education system. i fully admit that the government under president berdymukhammedov has made progress. that is beyond dispute. but i do not think that is in any way sufficient to give my consent to this agreement now. both you, mr president of the council, and you, commissioner, have missed a great opportunity, both of you! i do not necessarily agree with that, but my colleagues from the socialist group have said: we - the parliament - want your assurance that if parliament calls for the withdrawal of this interim agreement, you will comply. mr vondra has said nothing about that, and you, commissioner, tell us that the contract says that it can be done. it is not that it says you can do it, but that you are prepared to comply with this request if parliament so requests. that was the point. i would ask all my colleagues, if we are serious about ourselves, that we will not agree tomorrow unless the commission presents us here in writing and reads that it will comply with this request. that was a junktim that was finally called. and you didn't say anything about that. i have to say, i get the feeling you're not taking us seriously. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i therefore say that in these circumstances it is not possible to agree to this interim agreement. i hope that tomorrow we will document this clearly together.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i think it was a useful debate. the debate concentrated mostly on human rights and that is not surprising for us. i would like once more to stress that the current human rights clause in the agreement allows for suspension in the case of breaches of human rights; on suspension itself, i think that, if the situation in turkmenistan deteriorates, we will have to take very seriously whatever parliament proposes. of course the final decision will be made by the council looking at all options of restrictive measures, including the possibility of suspension, and here we have precedents regarding some other central asian countries. some of us also touched on cooperation with the red cross. for us it is not easy to judge on cooperation between the red cross and turkmenistan simply because the red cross applies a fundamental principle of discretion here. so, based on the information available, we have to admit that there is much to be done and improved, but at the same time we can see positive things and development. in general and in conclusion, the human rights situation in turkmenistan of course leaves much to be desired, but continued isolation is not an option. a conditional approach to the conclusion of the interim agreement negotiated 11 years is not an effective means of securing progress on human rights and democracy. we have, of course, to engage in a dialogue with turkmenistan on human rights, and that is what we are trying to do. the czech prime minister was there just recently. he engaged the president in ashgabat in exactly that kind of conversation. the presidency is convinced that there is an opportunity now to engage with turkmenistan, and that approach is the only effective means of establishing a frank dialogue on issues such as human rights. none of the turkmenistan key partners – russia or china, which are currently increasing their influence in the region – are likely to put these issues high on their agendas. so the establishment of appropriate contractual relationship starting with the interim agreement is a key step in such a policy of engagement. a negative opinion from parliament would be damaging to our nascent dialogue with turkmenistan and would undermine our ability to secure progress in important areas such as greater respect for human rights. i would therefore encourage parliament, as suggested by the rapporteur, daniel caspary, to offer its full support for the conclusion of the interim agreement.
member of the commission. − mr president, eleanor roosevelt once said that instead of cursing the darkness one should light a candle. this also applies to turkmenistan. promoting human rights and supporting democracy in the country must of course continue to be our priority. many of you have rightly said – for instance, mrs flautre who is no longer here – that changes are slow. yes, they are but they are changes and these changes must be acknowledged and they must be encouraged. so we have to help turkmenistan to help itself. we therefore have to engage with the country in a constructive, continuous and strategic manner. we need to create a proper framework for our contractual relations, yet the trade and cooperation agreement currently in force, being so limited, does not allow for that. let me also say a few words about suspension, or possible suspension. as you are aware and as the president-in-office has just said, it is the council – unanimously, by the way – that decides on such matters. the commission can make a proposal to that effect. may i just remind you that, after the events in andijan, for instance, the council did decide to impose restrictive measures on uzbekistan, including an arms embargo as well as travel restrictions on uzbek officials found to be involved in the events. in addition, technical meetings under the pca, the cooperation committee and the subcommittees, were suspended. these measures were kept under constant review and renewed or amended as appropriate on an annual basis. in this regard, should such a similar incident – or just a grave deterioration –occur, the council could take similar measures or even consider a suspension, and the commission would certainly consider all available options, including suspension. the inclusion of a specific human-rights-related suspension clause in the pca would require amending the pca. in our view, this seems quite difficult as it would imply reopening negotiations with turkmenistan – which already signed and ratified the pca in 2004 – as well as with the eu member states, 12 of which have ratified the agreement as well. insofar as this aims at establishing whether a breach of human rights can lead to a suspension of the pca, i would like to reiterate that both the pca and the interim agreement have a clause declaring respect for human rights as an essential element – as i mentioned very clearly before. both the pca and the interim agreement have a clause to the effect that, if either party considers that the other party has failed to fulfil an obligation under the agreement, it may take appropriate measures, which in cases of special urgency it can do without even first consulting the joint committee. both the interim agreement and the pca also contain a joint declaration clarifying that cases of special urgency mean cases of material breach of the agreement by either party, both clarifying that the material breach consists in the violation of an essential element. therefore a material breach in urgent cases does give the parties the right to take appropriate measures. in our view, these measures could also include the suspension of the agreement. therefore, honourable parliamentarians, i ask you again – as i did before – to give your assent to activating the interim trade agreement with turkmenistan. i would be absolutely agreeable to a political commitment from my side – from the commission’s side – to monitoring the human rights dialogue and reporting to the parliament regularly. this would be, in the trade agreement, a stepping stone for increased cooperation, and would take us a step further in bringing the framework for dialogue with turkmenistan on to a par with the ones we have already established with other countries in the region. let us not forget that either. only through enhanced commitment will we be able to influence positive developments and improvement of the human rights situation.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you very much for the debate today. she's brought us so much. i would also like to thank all the colleagues who have worked with me on this subject over the last few months. i am particularly struck by a key statement by the council, mr vondra: the people of turkmenistan will certainly not learn from china and russia, or even from iran, what democracy and human rights mean. we have, as a parliament, set out clear conditions in recent years under which we will agree to this interim agreement, most recently in the report by my colleague mr özdemir on the central asia strategy. it is a great compliment to the european parliament that we are now saying, in defiance of our own commitments made about a quarter or half a year ago, that we are accepting my report on the interim agreement. on the other hand, i am also aware that we are talking about the interim agreement today. it would be bad to postpone the vote. i am also clear that we should not take turkmenistan and the interim agreement hostage in order to shift the balance of power between the european institutions. i am aware that it would be a precedent if the commission and the council agreed to our demands, which many of us have made today, even if - and i say this very clearly - they are, in my view, perfectly justified demands from parliament. i therefore look forward to a commitment from the commission this evening, madam commissioner, mr president of the council, that if this monitoring shows that the situation in turkmenistan is worsening and if we as parliament ask the commission in a resolution to propose to the council that this interim agreement be suspended, it will also submit a proposal to the council. i think that should be possible under the current contracts. i would be glad if we could at least get a commitment from the council that it will immediately take up this subject and discuss it at one of its next meetings on a proposal from the commission. the two institutions can certainly make these two commitments without touching the whole fabric of institutional cooperation in the european union. i would be grateful if you could make that statement today, but at the latest tomorrow before the vote. i have no interest in having to recommend to my colleagues that the vote on my report be postponed before the vote tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have listened to you very carefully, commissioner, mr president-in-office. we in the green group support dialogue. we are not in favour of a single currency, but we are in favour of a single currency. the dialogue must be used to achieve progress in the country's human rights policy, such as the legal return of the european humanist university, or the freedom of expression, or the freedom of demonstration, such as today's demonstration. dialogue must strengthen the democratic forces. only then does it make sense. we must not allow him to fall behind the democratic forces! human rights issues must be addressed at the centre and eu human rights instruments must be allowed in the country. i also think that it is premature to enter into a partnership. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
the commission has already done so. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. why would you do that? the view of totalitarian regimes from the outside or from the inside is quite different. the treatment and elaboration of european history in the 20th century also varied widely from one member state to another. moreover, in some central and eastern european countries there are still people in office and dignity - including in this house - who have violated human rights or who have sent people to camps or caused their deaths without due process. it is poisoning our common future if we do not take this seriously. europe must not stand by idly by! i very much welcome the fact that we are now giving this subject a european platform. i hope that we will not just stay with today's discussion, but that we will start a process together with the commission and put into practice the projects you have mentioned. i hope that this process will help us to hold the perpetrators still alive accountable and to commemorate the victims, in order to develop greater understanding for each other in the interest of a common future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr stavros lambrinidis, on the work he has done. in the preparation of this report, he has fully involved all the shadow rapporteurs and has tried to reach compromises as far as possible. this report, which addresses the important issues of the information society, is an essential step towards creating an internet in which both the security of our citizens and their fundamental freedoms are guaranteed. the limits of freedom and security do not end at the borders of the virtual world. the report also addressed the fight against cybercrime, child pornography, identity theft and fraud, and copyright infringement. he has tried to involve europol and makes it clear that the laws that apply in the real world must also apply in the virtual world. at the same time, it has managed to strike a balance between the protection of citizens' rights, freedom of expression, data protection and the right to have data on the internet completely deleted. because to this day, the internet doesn't forget! and some of us can be thankful that the internet didn't exist when we were 13, 14, 15, or 16 years old, when you commit the youthful sins that you don't want to find on youtube or facebook today. he stressed access to information, particularly access to the internet, and respect for intellectual property. i am aware that the report does not go far enough for many of my colleagues in terms of the protection of intellectual property and copyright. but let's work on it, when the directive comes to ip enforcement, let's just emphasize those points. this report has made it clear that censorship of the internet or blocking access to the network, as envisaged or already implemented in some member states in europe, are not measures worthy of our enlightened society. and he also made it clear that the european union does not follow the example of totalitarian states, cutting off information from its citizens or dictating to them what they should know. i am glad that this has become a balanced report, which takes account of the needs of the information society, and i would be glad if not only my group but others would support this report as widely as possible tomorrow, so that we can work out a future of the internet in the interests of the citizens.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for the comments both from ms ayuso and mr blokland, and especially for the latter’s committed work. as i said before, especially regarding waste or hazardous waste, here we need to ensure that implementation of the convention will be fully in line with regulation (ec) no 1013/2006 on shipments of waste, which was adopted relatively recently. regarding funding, there is no fund or mechanism for the time being. we have launched a study in order to prepare the potential options or solution, and we will soon start public consultations on this issue. so your comments, now and then, will be very welcome, particularly on the establishment of the dismantling fund.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. first of all, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, in particular the socialists, mr sánchez presedo, and the liberals, mrs bowles, who have worked very successfully with me on this compromise text which is now before us as a report for the commission's white paper. we have succeeded this time in obtaining a very large, cross-party majority and a really viable compromise which can also serve as a guide for the further action of the european commission and later also of the european legislator, the parliament and the council. we have made it clear in this report - and rightly so - that when it comes to competition infringements, parliament takes the view that, in accordance with european tradition, it is primarily the responsibility of the authorities - both the national competition authorities and the european competition authority - to act against them. and that this is not a second arm, so to speak, which is created to fight cartels on an equal footing with the authorities. we in europe have consciously chosen a different path from that of the united states, with which the situation is often compared. there is a political consensus in this house that there must be a solution to the so-called mass phenomenon. if a very large number of individuals are harmed by unlawful conduct, but suffer comparatively little damage, then something special is needed for those proceedings where ordinary procedural procedures are simply not effective enough. and it is also part of access to justice and the further development of the internal market that such a tool is being created. there is a consensus on this. but there was also a consensus that we do not want europe to become a litigation industry, as we know it in america, with a turnover of 240 billion dollars, where the end result is not usually the consumer, but - as we all know, you only have to read the relevant books - above all the american law firms. this has little to do with the rule of law. we don't want that. that is why we agreed that the procedural instruments of torture of the american system should not be allowed to enter europe. this is particularly true in the areas of evidence and costs. this is crucial. we also agreed that we believe in principle that at european level legislation can only be an opt-in solution in principle, and an opt-out solution can only be permissible where it already exists in the member states and is possible under national constitutional law. the opt-in is not possible everywhere under national constitutional law and it is also contrary to the principle of the mature consumer. the european commission has completely forgotten in its white paper - and we strongly criticise this - to deal with the issue of out-of-court dispute settlement. the directorate-general for competition and the commission are moving swiftly towards legal proceedings. but we know from the debate on legal policy in this house over many years that this is not always the ideal way, and that as a rule, out-of-court dispute settlement mechanisms are often much more appropriate to solve problems. the parallel work of the directorate-general for consumer protection on the same subject has, incidentally, gone much further. in its green paper, the directorate-general has made a wide use of these alternative dispute resolution instruments, i.e. a consultation phase. we believe that it is imperative that the european commission should continue to work on this issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the creation of such an instrument is now under way in competition law. consumer protection is the same issue. we know that at some point similar considerations will be made in the area of capital market law, environmental law and social law. we believe it is imperative that a horizontal approach should also be considered and that at least the procedural instruments, which are more or less the same in all areas, should be used with a horizontal instrument. this is also of crucial importance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr klaus-heiner lehne, for his excellent work and for the close cooperation with the other groups in reaching appropriate solutions to a very difficult problem. we all agree - as i said in the debate - that we need a horizontal approach to all the elements of collective enforcement and therefore we also ask the commission not to make separate proposals in each of the directorates-general for its own area, but rather to provide us with a truly collective enforcement mechanism for the european internal market and for european citizens, and of course - as mrs wallis has said - also for european smes. we are united in the belief that the interests of those who have been harmed by a cartel must be effectively defended and that we must subject the european economy to cartel control in accordance with the principle of the social market economy. we also want to avoid any abuse of the various national regulations, i.e. forum shopping. but how we do this most effectively, i have not been given much information in the debate tonight, because i think the possibilities of collective enforcement are often overestimated. it is therefore important to set out again certain benchmarks against which we must measure all collective enforcement procedures. we must answer the question whether additional legal protection of consumers or of the persons concerned is really necessary in the areas of mass litigation, crossborder disputes and disputes involving more than one member state. we have to take account of the constitutional constraints of the member states - opt-out, opt-in and many other points - in the european procedure. if this is not possible, as the commission has already partly admitted, then we need the member states' legal instruments on board and we need a joint approach with the member states' parliaments to serve the european consumer. we definitely want to avoid having class action lawsuits in europe like the us model. we want to make sure that compensation is paid, but only to those who have suffered actual harm. we want to discourage unfounded lawsuits as much as possible and we want to promote alternative dispute resolution procedures.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you all for very interesting contributions, especially the introductory exposé of klaus-heiner lehne. this was very interesting, and i now see why you are so consensual and working not only together in committee but also in plenary on these issues. there is not much i can add, except perhaps on the legal bases. of course it depends on the objectives and the content of the action proposed, and i want to assure you, as a commissioner – for another portfolio, perhaps, but i speak on behalf of the commission – that, in principle, we seek very close cooperation with parliament. how to establish this with regard to a practical, concrete item or issue remains to be seen, but we will strive for close cooperation or as close cooperation with parliament as is possible under the applicable legal basis. on what you have said about fragmentation and a horizontal approach, i think the answer from the commission – and it is very visible in the white paper – is a consistent, coherent approach, and i think that the european legal tradition and the roots of our legal culture are different from the oft-quoted american ones. but i think that we can learn from the others and further build up our system. on public enforcement and justice, of course, i think it is very important that we are not going towards lessening this enforcement, and, of course, articles 81 and 82 are very important pillars of the eu single market and policies. they are about justice, and damages actions are complementary to this law enforcement. last – but maybe not least – what was said about out-of-court settlements. the commission is in favour, but the precondition or the base for such an approach, which would be welcome, is an existing and functioning efficient litigation system on damages actions at the level of member states. so i think we need to not only encourage but help our member states so that such issues and systems are running in the eu of 27. then i think we may also come to these points. but, in principle, thank you very much for what was, for me, too, a very interesting debate, and all the best.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank the members for the very kind contributions. i think we all worked together and we all did something good. i would also like to make the following point to the commission, in order to avoid any misunderstanding: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. this can't be happening! we expect that what we have decided today will be taken into account in the commission and will also be part of the considerations for what will then actually be a legislative proposal. the horizontal approach is an important aspect not only because of the arguments i have just given, but because you yourself, mr commissioner, have also raised the issue of the legal basis. in the case of such an important project, an approach must be taken which ultimately ensures that parliament is equally involved as legislator. if a purely competition approach is adopted, this would not be the case under the current treaty of nice. this is also a very important political argument for why we believe that a horizontal approach is the right one. i think the commission should give this matter serious consideration. another crucial point from my point of view is that we still need something on the subject of out-of-court dispute settlement. you spoke earlier of convergence with the work of the directorate-general for competition. but if you put the green paper on consumer protection side by side with the white paper on competition, you do not necessarily get the impression that this convergence has actually taken place. the most striking example is the white paper's different treatment - or rather, the lack of treatment - of out-of-court dispute settlement mechanisms. there are a number of other problems which we expect to be solved. i would just like to briefly touch on the subject of access to the european commission's files. in any criminal proceedings, when compensation is sought, it is possible to obtain access to the criminal files of the public prosecutor's office. why is this not possible at the european commission? i don't understand that! the same applies to the question of the amount of the penalty: this too must be taken into account in the light of the possibility of compensation in the future. the commission must urgently review this matter and put forward more specific content and proposals than those contained in the white paper. i would like to make this quite clear from the point of view of parliament, in order to avoid any misunderstanding. we expect more than what is contained in the white paper, and we also expect the directorate-general for competition and the commission as a whole to follow our proposals, otherwise there will be resistance in this house!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. one thing 's for sure . the distribution of food to the needy, especially in these difficult economic times, is not for me a matter for debate in the forthcoming vote on the report by our colleague mr siekierski. i would therefore like to make it clear from the outset that it has not been easy to find common ground within our group. i therefore respect the personal decision of each of my colleagues to deviate from this and not to agree to our proposed rejection of the report. why can i not agree to the outcome of the committee vote in this form? there are a number of reasons for this, which have nothing, if anything, to do with helping the needy in the european union in these economically difficult times. on the contrary, the amendments tabled by my colleague, mr niels busk, on behalf of the alde group, which were unfortunately not accepted, were intended to put the existing system on a sustainable footing. the present system is an anachronism from the times of agricultural overproduction, which fortunately belongs to the past. the successful decoupling of direct payments has led to a steady reduction in intervention stocks in recent years, with up to 85% of food now having to be bought on the open market. but this has changed the character of the programme at its core and has led to the loss of the agricultural policy dimension. but now that we are dealing with a social programme, we must create a legal basis for it. we share the view of the council's legal service, which considers that only article 308 of the ec treaty, rather than article 37 of the treaty on the common agricultural policy, can serve as a legal basis. otherwise, it is clearly an interference with the national competences of the member states. the only solution, given the inadmissibility of our amendments, can only be a new draft by the european commission. the commission should continue to take account of the principle of co-financing, since it is only on the ground that the meaning and absurdity of such programmes can be assessed satisfactorily in the interests of all.
the commission has already done so. mr siekierski has done a great deal to produce this report. i would like to thank him very much for that. i also share his view that many people, especially in the current economic crisis, are threatened by poverty. it would be a sign of poverty for europe if people here in europe were to suffer from hunger. i must say, however, that i do not agree with the impression that food has become more expensive. that may be true of certain countries, but certainly not of germany. the commission has also taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. i have a statistic here that lists food prices. in 1970, an industrial worker had to work 243 minutes for a kilogram of pork chops, a kilogram of beef, a kilogram of dark bread, ten eggs, 250 grams of butter, a kilogram of potatoes and a liter of milk to buy this food package, but in 2008 he had to work only 82 minutes. that means he had to spend a third of his time to buy these foods. the explanatory statement also states that in germany alone 9 million people are at risk of poverty. here too, correction is necessary. in germany, every citizen, every person is entitled to a minimum state support. so there is no need for any of those nine million to go hungry. it is therefore important that the money which is being made available here for food aid should be used in europe where people are really at risk of starvation. it would be a disgrace to europe if we did not stop this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. for 22 years, the programme for the distribution of food to the needy in the community has been contributing to the implementation of very important objectives of the common agricultural policy. the aim is to stabilize the markets by reducing intervention stocks, but at the same time to provide food aid to the poorest sections of the community population. in 2006 alone, 13 million people in 15 member states benefited from assistance under the programme. a valuable aid to be preserved. the commission's proposal, which departs from the old principles and intends to use not only food from intervention stocks but also food bought on the free market for the programme, is now facing legitimate concerns. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is definitely pursuing social policy and not agricultural policy. the argument that the range of foodstuffs on offer can only be balanced by buying them is also, in my view, a misguided one. the rapporteur, mr siekierski, is now proposing that the co-financing be abolished. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must clearly focus on the well-being of its citizens. there must be no hunger or want! this is what all the contributions to the debate this morning have made clear once again. however, we must ensure that there is a clear division of responsibilities. it is not that agricultural policy is intended to prevent aid and assistance to the poor and the needy. but there is also a great opportunity for coordination and optimisation in a fair and correct allocation of tasks and aids. the european agricultural policy is facing major challenges today and tomorrow. changes in content must always be seen in the overall context. i therefore ask the commission and the council to take decisions and coordinate their action in the light of the social and agricultural policies.
member of the commission. − mr president, since the beginning of my mandate, redress has, as you know, been high on my list of priorities. i believe that substantive rights show their strength only when they are backed by enforcement and effective redress for consumers. more and more often, large numbers of consumers lose out as a result of the same or similar illegal practices by a trader and do not receive redress. the commission has been examining the problem that consumers face in obtaining redress for mass claims. we have commissioned studies, discussed the issue with stakeholders, conducted surveys and an internet consultation, and recently published a green paper to which we have received more than 170 responses. although the consultation officially ended on 1 march 2009, comments are still coming in and i can already tell you that, the more evidence we gather, the more our belief that there is a problem is confirmed. this is why we need to find a solution in the interests of justice and a healthy european economy. the green paper on consumer collective redress proposed various ways of tackling this problem. a preliminary analysis of the replies received indicates that stakeholders recognise the unsatisfactory present situation on collective redress in the member states. there is consensus about the necessity of further action to achieve effective redress for consumers and thereby restore their confidence in the market. consumer organisations favour binding measures for a collective redress judicial scheme in all member states in combination with other options, such as the extension of existing alternative dispute resolution (adr) mechanisms to collective claims. business would favour adr mechanisms. in a few weeks’ time, once we have properly analysed all the responses, we will publish the replies, together with a statement on the feedback we received, and before the summer we will outline the different ways of addressing the problem of mass claims. this will not simply be a repetition of the four options in the green paper. our thinking is developing further in the light of the responses to the green paper consultation. based on the outcome of all the consultations, the commission will carefully examine the economic and social impact on stakeholders, including the costs and benefits generated by the possible options. on 29 may we will hold a hearing to share our preliminary conclusions with stakeholders. let me stress that, whatever route we take, we will not go down the path of the us experience. instead, we will follow our european legal cultures and take into account the existing experiences of member states. once the options become clear, the european parliament, member states and stakeholders will be convinced, as i am, that not only is there a problem but also that an effective solution must, and can, be found at european level. why should reputable businesses suffer at the hands of unfair competitors who profit when consumers are not compensated? and i stress ‘compensated’. this is the very nature of redress that we are aspiring to. why should consumers give up their legitimate expectations of compensation, and why should society put up with the welfare and justice gap? i am confident that we will find a solution that strikes the right balance between improving consumer access to redress and avoiding unfounded claims. effective redress will boost consumers’ confidence in the internal market and in what europe can do for them. this is particularly important in the harsh reality of today’s economic and financial crisis. as you know, the coming months will be marked by many institutional changes, and this may influence the timing and the delivery of our work on collective redress. concerning the initiative taken by the commission on damages actions for breach of the european anti-trust rules, i can assure you that the commission shares parliament’s view that these two initiatives related to collective redress should be consistent. indeed, being consistent does not mean that different policy initiatives have to use the same tools to reach the same goals. i can equally assure you that i remain personally committed to this issue and will continue to work on it until the end of my mandate with the same energy and vigour that i have devoted to it thus far, and of course with the kind help and support of parliament.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not commissioner, thank you very much for taking up the initiative of the socialist group and tackling this issue, because it is an important issue for the citizens! i left my phone here. i have heard from many young people that they have very big problems because for some contracts that they have not even consciously entered into - for ringing tones for example - an amount is deducted every month for five, six, seven, eight months. nobody's going to court for five euros. but if a million citizens are experiencing the same thing and one company is unjustly taking five million euros, then this is an instance of unfair competition against competitors in the european union who are behaving correctly. that is why it is very important that this issue be addressed. but it is also important for the people, for the young people, for the parents who are faced with this, that you give them legal tools in their hands so that they can really get their rights. in times of european convergence, when people shop online, it is important that we also set up these tools across borders so that they can be used in a truly appropriate way. that is why, in the eyes of my group, the class action is one of those instruments which clearly needs to be examined in order to see whether we can use it in the european union. but we must design these instruments in such a way - as you have said, commissioner - that the exaggerations that exist in the united states, for example, cannot creep in here, but that they are in line with our own legal system. we must work on this and we will continue to do so in the coming months. commissioner, you know we are on your side on these issues. when it comes to enforcing rights for citizens, we social democrats are always on board!
the commission has already done so. thank you for the opportunity to speak in this debate. i am pleased, mrs kuneva, that at the request of the epp-ed group you have helped to develop the proposal of the directorate-general for competition to deal with collective actions, which initially envisaged regulating them in a similar way to the us, into a horizontal approach and to treat everyone in the european union equally - small and medium-sized enterprises, consumers, workers and entrepreneurs. this is an important step forward which we want to support in a very constructive and positive way. we are aware that in some individual cases, of course, a collective claim to enforcement of collective rights seems more successful than an individual claim. however, we remain convinced that the best consumer protection way to pursue small claims is not through class actions, but through the enforcement of such claims by public law, for example by means of a claim for relief, as in the german uwg. the individual consumer will be very careful whether he actually lodges a class action with a lawyer for €4.99 or whether it would not be much more helpful if the public authorities, for example, continuously verified this claim by an ombudsman and enforced with the appropriate means. so i think that in the question of how we connect these two elements, we have to think very carefully about how we can most effectively help consumers. because consumers often don't have time to go to a lawyer, but they want quick and easy help. the second point which seems important to me - and your directorate-general has done a very good job on this point too - was a discussion in the bavarian representation in brussels, where a representative of your directorate-general, when asked whether we could really exclude class action lawsuits on the us model with european legal options, said clearly: 'no, we cannot.' this means, from our point of view, that we must not completely lose sight of this model. we must continue to discuss this, but we must do so with great care and involve the member states and their legal possibilities in the discussion, so that we can achieve what we all want: a truly european model, particularly attractive to consumers, which also protects smes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, we welcome the european commission's proposal and this green paper in principle. there is a mass phenomenon, which has been described by several speakers before, where relatively small damages occur in a large number of people. the damage to the people affected is small, but the damage to the whole is great. it takes an instrument to deal with this problem. i think it is right that people should think about this. i also welcome very much - to be positive - the fact that the directorate-general for consumer protection has also placed a very crucial emphasis in its green paper on the issue of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. this is a major departure from the white paper of the directorate-general for competition, which was also discussed here yesterday, and which has so far completely ignored this possibility of extrajudicial dispute settlement mechanisms. i think that the directorate-general for consumer protection is in the green paper ahead of its colleagues in the directorate-general for competition. i would like to make two points very clear, which i think are quite critical. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall be calling with a large majority in this house for the european commission to take a horizontal approach to this issue. it is not possible that we end up with sectoral instruments: one for consumer protection, one for antitrust, one for the capital market, perhaps another for the environment, perhaps another for social matters, all of which contradict each other, all of which interfere with the legal systems of the member states and end up in a legal-political mess that no practitioner can handle. we have had many such examples in the past. i am thinking of the debate on the vocational qualifications directive, which we also brought together in one instrument because that fragmentation was no longer possible. the commission should not make the same mistake here. it should promote the horizontal approach from the outset. that is the clear position of parliament. that will become clear in a few minutes. one last point: i also welcome the fact that we have reached a consensus that we do not want a us-style litigation industry with a turnover of 240 billion dollars a year, from which only lawyers benefit and consumers have nothing. we want a real rule of law in europe and we want to stick to our traditional system, to our understanding of the law!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states. the debate yesterday showed that a majority of parliament could agree to the signing of the interim agreement, albeit with a stomach ache. many colleagues are hopeful that the agreement will bring about a new quality of dialogue between the european union and turkmenistan after years of stagnation. the majority of members, however, believe that it is important that we do not give the commission and the council a free hand. as a parliament we need guarantees from the commission and the council that, in the event of a further deterioration of the human rights situation, serious consideration will be given to suspending the agreement at the request of parliament. unfortunately, yesterday the commission was only partial and the council did not respond to this request at all. i therefore ask on behalf of my group that the two final votes be postponed until the council and commission have given their assurances. (applause from the centre)
(parliament adopted the resolution) mr president, the request was to postpone only the final votes, not the vote on the amendments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the request was to postpone only the two closing votes and to vote on the amendments, so that we will only have the two closing votes in one of the coming plenary sessions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too welcome the fact that we have succeeded in giving the commission the task of presenting a directive on general contractors' liability throughout europe by means of the alternative resolution. the basis of this resolution was the lehtinen report, and that is why much of the work done in the committee and by the groups, the liberals, the socialists and the greens, has been incorporated into this decision. the importance of this is shown by the fact that cheap labour is found on construction sites throughout europe and even safety is compromised, as the example of the finnish nuclear power plant shows, where safety standards are not met by subcontractors. we therefore urgently need a european directive because the laws in the eight eu member states which have general contractor liability are very effective but they end at national borders. we in the green group are determined, if the present commission does not demand it, to make this a matter of principle when the new commission takes office, because we want safety for the people and minimum standards for the workers. this is only possible through a european legal system, a general contractor's liability. i hope that the commission will present a directive in accordance with our requests, otherwise the question will be whether it is still worthy of its office.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i voted against the report by katerina batzeli. i believe that this calls into question the essential pillars of our economic system, such as free competition and the basic principles of the social market economy. it is clear that appropriate measures to stabilise food prices must be found to ensure sustainable agricultural production. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. however, an eu-wide database of reference prices for products and inputs introduces new bureaucracy and reporting requirements, which trade then bills either the producer or the consumer. the result would be higher final and consumer prices and lower producer prices. total transparency of all entrepreneurial cost factors such as wages, energy costs, purchase and selling prices and profit margins leads to surveillance and management. these are not the aims of a social and free europe. the strengthening of the position of farmers in the food chain can only be achieved by involving them in the co-responsibility.
a writer. the commission has already done so. we meet at an unusual time, but nevertheless: the oral question we have put today was born in the intergroup on 'giving europe a soul'. we believe that this soul is found in our oldest units, the regions, where people communicate with their own particular accent, a particular color of speech, or even in a regional language, where the cuisine has its own taste, where the markets sell genuine native fruits and vegetables, where certain folk songs are native, where certain stories and myths originate, in short, where you belong, where you are at home. in the course of globalisation, many things are threatened to become uniform and some unique things will disappear. the european union must be able to rely on the protection of the european union. the richness and diversity of europe's regions - often hostile, occupied, divided, destroyed by war and reunited - must be preserved. the regions are sort of like our stem cells. the european union has preserved a kind of culture of the small and is committed to human rights in this respect too. our brief debate and resolution today are intended to encourage the commission to find ways of making the cultural wealth of the regions more visible and how the eu can contribute to its preservation and development. europe's cultural potential must be used strategically. in 2009, the year of creativity and renewal, opportunities for integrating ideas and initiatives from the public and civil sectors at local and regional level should be used to their full potential. i would like to say to my colleagues in the committee of the regions that we do not want to cut back on existing regional policy, but simply to add a cultural element to it. we ask the commission to do the same.
i have to say, madam president, i was present here in strasbourg 30 years ago when a directly elected parliament met for the first time. the retired president was louise weiss, after whom this magnificent building, itself a great piece of european culture, is named. her speech was the founding document of the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this european culture is not a new invention, as some people believe, but a rediscovery of something much older than the nation states, mr heaton-harris. borders, at least on the continent, are mostly very artificial. culture is deeply rooted in regions that are often cut by artificial borders. regional culture is of paramount importance as a link between nations. one of the great cultural figures was the bohemian forest poet adalbert stifter, who worked in bavaria, upper austria and bohemia, who connected czechs and germans. we must preserve this tradition, the culture that has been destroyed by nationalism and expulsion, the culture of minorities, the culture of regions, the culture of cross-border euroregions, and last but not least the diversity that we can only preserve together. franz josef strauss, the great bavarian european, said: 'we will only be able to remain bavarians and basques, germans and britons if we become europeans in time - not as a centralizing factor, but as a common roof against the rain of globalisation and uniformity.'
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 26 march 2009.
i am not going to go into detail. it is with great sadness and consternation that i have to tell you today that over the past weekend, more than 300 people drowned in the sinking of several refugee boats in the mediterranean off the coast of libya. on board were north africans and people from sub-saharan countries. some refugees were rescued by the egyptian and libyan authorities. some bodies have been found, but hundreds of people are still missing. i would like to express our shock and sadness on behalf of the european parliament. the european union has been experiencing an increase in immigration across the mediterranean for two years. a substantial increase in the number of poverty refugees from africa is now expected as a result of the economic crisis. the large number of refugees who die tragically while trying to enter the european union threatens to turn the mediterranean into a vast open-air cemetery. we all remain called upon to find solutions so that these tragedies can be ended. in memory of the deceased, i ask you to observe a silent commemoration. (parliament adopted the resolution) thank you. thank you.
i am not going to go into detail. it is a great pleasure to welcome as a guest on the podium today the 2008 nobel prize in medicine, professor luc montagnier! welcome to the club. (applause from the centre) i am pleased to welcome a delegation from the economic community of west african states (ecowas) today. the delegation consists of 15 members of its ad hoc committee, which deals with the question of direct elections and increased powers. she is on a study visit and would like to learn from the european parliament's experience in this field. i wish you a very pleasant stay and hope that our parliaments will continue to deepen their cooperation. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the report by mr janusz onyskiewicz, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the new eu-russia agreement (2008/2104 (ini)) (a6-0140/2009).
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! janusz onyszkiewicz was clear about the importance of human rights in cooperation with russia. thank you very much. i think it is particularly important to make it clear that europe does not put economic relations - that is, gas relations - above human rights. normal partnerships are based on two trusting sides who trust each other. strategic partnerships are at risk of being only partially compatible and reliable. the eu must therefore protect itself against unreliability. as long as russia continues to violate human rights so gravely and does not achieve a minimum of democracy and the rule of law, as the cases of anna politkovskaya and khodorkovsky/lebedev have repeatedly shown, there can be no normal, good partnership.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. - mr president, i have to say something. as rapporteur on the committee on culture for the new anti-discrimination directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment without distinction as to religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, i very much welcome the commission's proposal and express my thanks to commissioner špidla. eurobarometer surveys show that around three quarters of the eu population see a need for action. the committee on culture called for amendments and additions to be made to three points: firstly, the inclusion of the characteristic of gender. we agree with the compromises that have been reached. we want to ensure access to the media and education and to regulate multiple discrimination. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the spe has supported this comprehensive horizontal directive. if german conservatives and liberals reject the directive altogether, they will be unmasked. they want to continue discriminating against homosexuals, they want to spread propaganda. extremists like scientology need not be feared under the new policy, and can continue to be denied advertising or meeting space. the committee on culture voted unanimously in favour of the horizontal framework directive.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you're afraid to say anything. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. of course, we are all against discrimination, but we no longer dare to question the path we are taking here, because we are immediately put in a corner. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. we are all in agreement on the aim, and we should not disagree on that. we are arguing about the way forward, and it must be allowed to be discussed legitimately, including by the epp group. first of all, i would ask the commissioner: if the old directive, the existing anti-discrimination directive, has not been transposed in ten member states of the european union today, if we have infringement proceedings in ten member states, it is a serious question why we need to amend this directive today when the existing directive has not even been transposed. is that a serious question to ask? that is why the referral back is an argument that can be made here. the second question also allows us to talk about the content. for example, the question of why the churches come to us, who have been close partners of the left in the refugee protection. the churches that were your partners in the past come to us today and say: 'we have problems with certain formulations. when the media people, the newspaper editors, come and say they have questions, they can be discussed seriously. the commissioner says that when we discuss the family, he does not want to impose rules on the member states. but of course we are harmonizing the directive through the back door. and so on and so forth. there are various arguments that can be put forward which raise concerns in our group, worthy concerns. this is something that can be said even if you are actively fighting against discrimination. the left is very pleased with itself in this house today because it is again setting up new regulations on many points. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there are other basic values worth considering. for example, if we want to include private contracts, as the pse is asking for, not only industrial contracts but also private contracts, then it is permissible to ask whether freedom of contract is not also an important fundamental value which we as parliamentarians have to protect. the epp is against discrimination and will always fight against it, but the way is also open to debate in this parliament!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mrs kathalijne buitenweg, for her work. she was in very good hands with this particular subject. the directive has been called for by parliament for years, and it is therefore essential that it be adopted before the end of this parliamentary term. it is also extremely important that the commission should put forward a proposal on protection against discrimination on grounds of sex as soon as possible, so that the existing hierarchy of grounds for discrimination can finally be brought to an end. i am also very surprised that the epp, in amendment no 96, is calling for the discriminatory ground of worldview to be excluded from the scope of the directive. so, ladies and gentlemen of the epp, do we really need to remind you that the legal basis on which this proposal for a directive is based - namely article 13 of the ec treaty - has been in force since the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam in 1999, i.e. for 10 years? may i remind you that article 13 treats all the grounds of discrimination mentioned therein as being of equal value without distinction? and, ladies and gentlemen of the epp, you must have noticed that article 10 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union treats the religious and ideological beliefs of all people as equal. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. your motion no 81, which seeks to reject the entire directive, is, frankly, based on an almost cynical argument, namely that the implementation of the directive - that is what it says - is, i quote, "excessively bureaucratic". you know, mr weber, that to deny people their rights, and on that basis, is absolutely incomprehensible to me, and i hope that your motion no 81 will be clearly rejected tomorrow when the vote is taken in plenary. the eu must finally take another step forward in the fight against discrimination in our society!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this directive finally closes the gaps in anti-discrimination law. the european union is thus fulfilling its international obligations to protect human rights and its obligations under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what right do you have to deny people with disabilities full access to education, or elderly people equal treatment in insurance and financial services? what do you think of people? the right to participate fully in society is a human right. that is why we will fight for this directive and for equal opportunities for all. it is, in my view, deeply dehumanizing to demand that victims of discrimination prove their discrimination. if you, dear epp colleagues, want to abolish the shifting of evidence, you are calling into question the fundamental right of individuals to the protection of their human dignity for certain groups. this is unacceptable to us. we want equality for all in the protection against discrimination, and we greens will fight for this. we cannot allow human rights to become a pawn in populist panic. i'm predicting you'll lose tomorrow! the majority of the chamber will vote in favour of the human right to protection against discrimination. that's for sure!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. as a journalist, i would like to mention a phrase in this directive which bothers me very much. i cannot understand why we should want to add one more directive to the existing one, and then try to put an additional directive on top of it, when the directive has not yet been transposed in 10 of the 27 member states. there's a difference of opinion on that. but what really bothers me - as a journalist - is that this is damaging press freedom in our member states. let me give you two examples. the amendment tabled by mr weber, which also deserves our support, includes the possibility of restricting the freedom of the press, for example, if a publisher has to accept an advertisement by neo-nazis or anti-semites. i think that is absolutely wrong and it is not at all in line with the principles we have in the eu, and i am against it. we can't let that happen. the same applies, of course, if we have anti-discrimination, then those people who we do not promote in the eu, but against whom we have to act, will have even more opportunities, for example in the real estate market. in my hometown, it's almost weekly that neo-nazis try to buy real estate. if they are to be rented or bought, we cannot prevent this from happening to left-wing or right-wing radicals. they will be invoking this new amendment, and i will oppose it, and i will also vote against it. that is why i am in favour of the referral back and, if that is not possible, i will vote against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i am now the most quoted person in this debate, so i would like to respond to that again. i announced that anyone who asks questions is the bad guy in this debate. all the speakers who have been frantically speaking out against discrimination have described the principle. i ask again that we do not deny each other this principle, that we fight against discrimination. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. why is it that we cannot discuss the way we want to go about the question of discrimination, how we fight discrimination? and when the newspaper editors sit in our office and voice their concerns, they can be mentioned here. mr president, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his excellent report. we do nothing more and nothing less here!
in writing. the legal basis applied, article 13 (1) tec, is irrelevant, especially since the fdp considers that the principle of subsidiarity has not been respected. it is not within the competence of the eu legislator to adopt the present rules and to interfere to a large extent with the self-determination of the member states. the fight against all forms of discrimination and the participation of disabled people in public life is an important task. the proposed extension of anti-discrimination legislation to almost all areas of life is, however, far from reality. the reversal of the burden of proof laid down in the directive thus leads to accusations without sufficient evidence to justify the initiation of proceedings. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should rule on the question of the right to compensation for persons who have not been discriminated against but who cannot prove their innocence. the reversal of the burden of proof, defined in such a general manner, is therefore questionable from a legal point of view. this creates insecurity and encourages abuse. this cannot be the purpose of a progressive anti-discrimination policy. it should also be noted that the european commission has currently initiated infringement procedures against a number of member states for the lack of implementation of the previous european anti-discrimination directives. however, there is still no overview of the rules implemented to determine the claimed need for new rules. germany in particular has already gone far beyond previous guidelines from brussels. that is why we voted against this report.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this has not happened often and actually underlines the importance of the discussions, the current reforms and the urgent need for action, because for the first time we are adopting a proposal for a european commission regulation on the structural funds, on which there is almost no amendment. i am relieved that we are here deliberating so unanimously on this proposal for a regulation from the commission on the european social fund, and i would like to thank you all for following my recommendation not to table amendments to the european social fund. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the training of young people is not restricted to the minimum necessary. because more and more people are now suffering from the labour market consequences of this international financial crisis. they expect answers from us, they expect protection, and above all they need answers now, not in a few months. the reform of the european social fund regulation which we are adopting tomorrow will therefore also enter into force immediately. we are thus making a major contribution to the de-bureaucratization of the european social fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. months of application procedures and difficult billing procedures, which went as far as proof of the individual bus and tram tickets of the participants in the measure, have now come to an end. i sometimes wonder why it takes such a dramatic crisis before we take such a step. it is never too late, and this reform will ensure that the funds are used up and, hopefully, quickly distributed to those most affected. we must help these people to reintegrate into the labour market as quickly as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what's changed now? or what will change if we decide tomorrow? in future, project applicants will be able to charge flat-rate fees and to apply for flat-rate amounts of up to eur 50 000 per action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a fair and balanced way. the procedure seems to be in order, because our budgetary controllers have not, surprisingly, objected to this. so we simplify the process. what we are not changing, however, are the priorities of the european social fund. there is no need for this at present, because the applicants are given enough room to react to the specific needs of the labour market. and, finally, we are also making available to the member states for this year a further increase in the appropriations of eur 1.8 billion for training and further training measures, and i think this is a clear signal from this house that we are acting quickly in the face of the crisis and showing solidarity here. i would also like to apologise for not being able to follow the debate to the end, as i have to go to the conciliation committee on the working time directive.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are discussing these three reports in the face of the biggest and most difficult economic and financial crisis the european union has ever experienced. it is, of course, true that cohesion policy must help to alleviate the effects of this economic crisis. but i want to emphasize again at this point: it is true that the cohesion policy budget is the largest single budget in the european union. but it is also unfortunately true that the member states contribute just over 1% of their national gdp to the budget of the european union. in other words, even if we spend over 6.25 billion euros to finance interim payments and advances, this is just a drop in the bucket, and it is not enough! it will mitigate consequences, it will provide leverage, but national efforts are still needed. perhaps we should bear this in mind in the light of the next debate on the financial perspective. our group has discussed the three reports very intensively and could have put forward a lot of good ideas. in some places - my colleague jöns has already said this - we have wondered whether de-bureaucratisation needs an economic crisis to become possible in the commission. we will not table amendments because we know that rapid action is needed in the regions now and because we also know that we have to talk about structural policy changes elsewhere. that is why we support the whole package that the commission has proposed and hope that it will now really arrive in the regions as quickly as possible and that the money can really work to combat the financial crisis.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we greens see the financial crisis and the climate crisis as linked, because the negative impacts of climate change on the regions are long-term and cause enormous costs. they are a burden on economic, social and territorial cohesion. that's why we have to act now! building insulation and the use of renewable energy for residential buildings in the erdf are a first step. but what good is this progress if at the same time member states are allowed to invest in road planning and oversized waste incineration plants, the use of which is fuelling climate change and damaging the environment. that's half-hearted and inconsistent. the commission has also been very clear in its vigorous speech on why the commission refuses to accept our proposal to make regional policy more closely linked to climate and environmental protection. does the commission lack the courage to press the member states to revise the erdf regulation in the light of climate objectives? why does it not have an action plan for regional policy? the reservations in dg regio about climate change have prevented our amendments from gaining a majority in the committee. but we will bring it back and we will ask for a roll-call vote. then we'll see if the voters can trust you to take a stand on climate change.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are many ways to deal with the lasting effects of the unexpected financial and economic crisis. this revision package, this legislative measure within the framework of the european economic recovery programme, is designed as a good - if not quite sufficient - response to this temporary, if exceptionally critical, situation. it also meets the demand for greater simplification of procedures and greater flexibility in the application of the existing provisions under the structural funds regulation, a demand which the european parliament has repeatedly made in recent years. it is also welcome - and i would like to stress this - that an amendment to article 7 - eligibility of expenditure - should enable eu member states and regions to invest structural funding in energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing, and that this measure should not be limited to low-income households. the amendment in this respect therefore rightly deletes the line 'low-income households' and instead introduces a ceiling of 4% of the total erdf allocation for each member state for such expenditure. this is just one of many proposed improvements. in short, if this overall package is implemented, there will be an acceleration in expenditure and thus more liquidity for the implementation of the necessary requirements from the structural funds of the erdf, the isf and the cohesion fund and a simplification of the provisions allowing a rapid implementation of the programmes. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, the commission welcomes the considerable efforts made by parliament and also somewhat by the council. these efforts should lead to an agreement at first reading. in view of the consensus confirmed by the libe committee in mid-march and coreper a few days earlier, i believe that this agreement is now definitively reached. although the text is not perfect and does not correspond to all our initial ambitions, the commission supports the compromise without hesitation. the efforts of the european parliament to reach agreement on this proposal at first reading, and before the end of the current parliamentary term, must be acknowledged and welcomed. this regulation will make the rules on issuing visas clearer, not only for visa applicants but also for the member states. these rules will also be applied in a more harmonised manner. the commission is satisfied that the obligation to state reasons for visa refusal decisions and to grant a right of appeal to rejected applicants has been maintained in a form virtually unchanged from the text of the original proposal, thanks to the support of the european parliament. such procedural safeguards will avoid that visa refusal decisions are perceived as arbitrary. if that agreement were to be called into question, we would have to continue to live with shortcomings, such as the inconsistencies in the current rules, to the great dissatisfaction of all. i therefore welcome this negotiated compromise, which will remedy the shortcomings and inconsistencies of the current rules. i thank, of course, mr henrik lax and parliament. i am convinced that this new visa code will bring great benefits to travellers of good faith.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the adoption of the visa code will mean that in future schengen visas, i.e. visas for stays of up to three months, will be issued in accordance with uniform criteria in the schengen area. this is a much-needed step in a european union with open borders. at the same time, the responsibility of the member states for processing visa applications is clearly defined. in principle, the applicant must apply to the member state in which his main destination is located. my group welcomes the fact that the conditions and procedure for issuing entry visas allow a large number of people to enter the community quickly. this will not only help all those who come to the eu for work, but also benefit holidaymakers from all over the world - by far the largest group of visitors. we have done this to ensure that visa applications can be processed quickly and to ensure that security checks prevent abuse. by balancing security with ease of entry, the visa information system provides member states with immediate and direct access to all relevant data related to the issuing of visas. this simplifies the examination of applications and at the same time will increase security in the future through the use of biometric identifiers, i.e. photographs and fingerprints. the compromise reached between the rapporteur, mr henrik lax, and the council takes account of the original position of the european parliament and is also supported by my group by a large majority. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mr lax once again for his commitment and the excellent cooperation he has shown over the past three years in this very complex dossier. it is a new foundation for european visa policy.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr henrik lax, for his work. he has worked very closely with all the shadow rapporteurs from the beginning and his commitment has certainly brought about the best possible result that could be achieved with the council. the visa code is necessary to make the processing of schengen visas for short stays more uniform, but above all to ensure a better service in the issuing of visas and thus to improve the perception of the european union in third countries. after more than three years of work on the visa code and complicated negotiations with the council, a compromise has finally been reached. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but above all it brings relief to applicants, because it gives them more legal certainty and transparency. it is particularly important that in future any refusal of a visa application must be justified and that any applicant may lodge a complaint against the refusal of his application. the unfortunate thing is that the visa fee remains unchanged at 60 euros. even if a larger number of people are exempted from the visa fee in the future, the visa fee of eur 60 is likely to be unaffordable for some third country nationals and thus unfortunately result in people being unable to enter the european union. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the other members for the excellent cooperation they have shown over the past few years and to congratulate mr lax on his report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am generally in favour of the european eco-label. it is right that we should make a fresh start in spreading this community eco-label. i also think it is right that we should stick to voluntary work in future. the sign will only be effective in the future if there are clear criteria and standards for acquiring it. i call on the european commission to draw up reasonable, clear and understandable criteria. the incentive must be at the forefront. it would be a pity if the establishment of the eco-label were to be hampered by bureaucratic hurdles. the consumer must be the final judge of the success or failure of the sign, because he must accept it. although i am personally very fond of the blue angel we have in germany, it must not be a matter of taste in the end, but it is important that the consumer is informed at a glance of the special characteristics of a product. the only way to create added value for the consumer is for the member states to abandon their own signs and to end up with a single sign at european level. a confusion of symbols confuses the consumer and does not inform him. a sign, a statement that we should work together.
thank you, thank you. the will of parliament is always an order. we shall take your statement as a basis for discussion at the next bureau meeting.
i would like to thank you very much, mrs záborská. we'll take care of it.
i welcome to the european parliament a delegation from rwanda led by the minister for foreign affairs and cooperation, mrs rosemary museminali. ms museminali is accompanied by the chairman of the senate foreign affairs committee, mr valence munyabagisha, the vice-president of the chamber of deputies, mr jean damascène ntawukuriryayo, and the senior director for europe, america, the un and international organisations at the ministry of foreign affairs, mr balthazar rutsinga. on behalf of the whole of parliament, i would like to welcome the delegation. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
if there is no contradiction with what mrs prets has said, we will of course examine the text very carefully again on this basis.
i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. we're not having a debate here anymore. those who do not wish to accept mrs vălean's motion may stand. if they're against it, 40 people would have to stand up and not make a statement here. (parliament adopted the oral amendment)
member of the commission. − mr president, i fully agree. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i ask for the postponement of the april ii plenary session, in accordance with rule 170 (4). we have received documents from the commission and the council yesterday during the group meetings, in which the commission and the council are addressing us. i am sorry that we have not had time to discuss these documents in our groups. that's why i'd appreciate a postponement. i would like to ask all the members of the house, however, in all the groups: please do not use this interim agreement with turkmenistan as a hostage to the fact that we as a parliament are strengthening our parliamentary rights vis-à-vis the council and the commission. it would be a great pity if the document were to suffer from this problem.
i can see from the gesture of mr landsbergis that if he ever gets the chance to make oral requests in the future, he will do so.
i would point out that mr nassauer and mr szájer have co-signed the joint motion for a resolution on behalf of the group of the european people's party and the european democrats. before the vote on paragraph 3
i am not going to go into detail. so that you know what we are voting on now: we cannot refer this back to a committee because it does not come from a committee, but we can postpone the vote. that's the business situation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we in the cdu/csu group voted against the report by way of derogation. we are against discrimination of any kind, but we do not think that a comprehensive framework directive at european level is the right way to protect those affected. ten member states have not yet transposed the existing anti-discrimination directive. nevertheless, a simple majority of parliament not the qualified majority voted today in favour of this enlargement. it would create considerable additional bureaucracy and unnecessary costs - which the citizens do not understand. the improvements in insurance coverage and structural adjustment measures for disabled access were achieved. the right to bring a class action was also avoided. we are also aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the result would be that extremists and sects such as scientology could also claim protection under the directive. we also oppose absolute equality of traditional and same-sex marriage. the commission considers that the implementation of the directive requires that, where they are legally recognised in a member state, same-sex partners should also be granted the same rights as married partners. this is what we're going to be facing. that is why we voted against the report and for referral back of the commission's proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. while 10 of the 27 member states are in court proceedings for failure to transpose the first directive, today we have seen a simple majority vote for the second directive. i personally - and the majority of my group - said no to that. why would you do that? i would like to give two examples. i know from my experience in my native france that there are efforts by political extremists, neo-nazis and left-wing radicals to acquire real estate and thus to gain a broad publicity in their favour. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in conformity with the treaty. that is why i have rejected the report today. the other reason is that in the amendment we have tabled today we have reversed the reversal of evidence and thus a principle in our rule of law. i consider that to be totally illegitimate. the third point was that newspapers and publishers, whose freedom is restricted by this directive, should not publish advertisements by extremists. i think this is a clear interference with the freedom of the press, which i reject.
in writing. - the legal basis applied, article 13 (1) tec, is not relevant, especially since the fdp considers that the subsidiarity principle has not been respected. it is not within the competence of the eu legislator to adopt the present rules and to interfere to a large extent with the self-determination of the member states. the fight against all forms of discrimination and the participation of disabled people in public life are important tasks. the proposed extension of anti-discrimination legislation to almost all areas of life is, however, far from reality. the reversal of the burden of proof laid down in the directive thus leads to accusations without sufficient evidence to justify the initiation of proceedings. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should rule on the question of the right to compensation for persons who have not been discriminated against but who cannot prove their innocence. the reversal of the burden of proof, defined in such a general manner, is therefore questionable from a legal point of view. this creates insecurity and encourages abuse. this cannot be the purpose of a progressive anti-discrimination policy. it should also be noted that the european commission has currently initiated infringement procedures against a number of member states for the lack of implementation of the previous european anti-discrimination directives. however, there is still no overview of the rules implemented to determine the claimed need for new rules. germany in particular has already gone far beyond previous guidelines from brussels. that is why we voted against this report.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 2 april 2009.
i am not going to go into detail. the worst earthquake in italy in decades has left 295 people dead in the region of abruzzo. the city of l'aquila was hit the hardest. we are all shocked by the violence of this natural disaster and its tragic consequences. up to 40,000 people were left homeless by the main quake and numerous aftershocks. it is estimated that one in three homes in the province of l'aquila, which was particularly affected, was destroyed or damaged. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express our deepest sympathy at today's plenary session with all the victims of this terrible earthquake. i would also like to express on behalf of all of us our deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the deceased and our solidarity with italy, its citizens and its authorities in this time of grief. our thoughts are with the dead, the injured, the homeless and all those affected by this disaster. i ask you to rise from your seats for a silent commemoration. (parliament adopted the resolution) thank you.
the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 16 april, in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed to you. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: tuesday:the green group is calling for the hökmark report on the community framework for nuclear safety to be removed from the agenda.
the liberal group requests that the vote on the motions for resolutions on the opening of negotiations with a view to the adoption of an international treaty on the protection of the arctic be postponed.
the uen group requests that a statement by the commission on the earthquake in the abruzzo region of italy be included on the agenda.
madam president, i have just been informed that it is planned to treat the rosé wine in may. there will be plenty of time to speak, which would not be the case today.
mr vakalis, such a request must be made one hour before the beginning of the sitting. i am told that this is not the case. it concerns article 132. my recommendation is that we should take this into account in may.
madam president, this is not a decision of the president alone, but i am following the rules of procedure. the decisive factor is article 132, which we are bound by. it should have been requested one hour before the meeting. i will recommend to the conference of presidents that we deal with the matter in may. the green group has asked for a commission statement on genetically modified maize mon 810 to be included on the agenda.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mon 810 was authorised in the european union in 1998. this authorisation is not compulsory for member states. each member state may decide whether to accept this authorisation, apply it or prohibit the cultivation of this maize. i take it that the recent judgment in the federal republic of germany has given rise to this request. i can say that in 2005 mon 810 was approved in germany, in 2007 the planting was stopped and in december 2007 monsanto presented a plan for general monitoring of the planting. then it was approved again in 2008 and now a few days ago it was banned in germany. mrs frassoni says that there are many member states who are opposed to this extension: there are exactly four countries - france, austria, hungary and luxembourg - and germany is now one of them, so there are five member states out of 27. this is a purely national decision based on subsidiarity, and we should not burden parliament with it.
mr president, thank you very much. we are not in favour of the procedure requested by mrs frassoni, but for a different reason than mr goepel, and i am grateful to you for allowing me to make a brief statement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's food supply is not affected by the introduction of genetically modified organisms. but we cannot do that in the short time before the day after tomorrow. i therefore believe that we should ask the new parliament after the elections to have a full debate on the use of genetically modified food. thank you, thank you.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
mr president, you can rest assured that the law will be followed in this case as well.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a few weeks ago an unholy alliance of pro-eu czech social democrats, anti-eu president klaus and the communists led to the overthrow of the topolánek government. the commission is now preparing the composition of the transitional government which will govern from may until after the new elections in october. i hope that this new cabinet will bring to an end the czech presidency of the council, which has been very well managed so far, and help to bring about the necessary ratification of the lisbon treaty in the czech republic. that would be an important, positive sign for europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the un conference on racism opened yesterday in geneva. 22 eu countries are taking part, 5 countries have decided not to take part. this is a bad sign of the european union's unity in the face of such an important event. i read that one or other country is considering going to geneva later this week, and that is why i would ask you to persuade the czech presidency of the council that we as the eu should adopt a united position on this anti-racism conference. it is not possible that a terrible speech by the iranian president could divide the eu and weaken the un. this cannot be the outcome of this speech, and therefore i think that we must make a renewed effort - as secretary-general ban ki-moon has also requested - to ensure that all 27 eu countries and the eu together really support the final document there and help the millions of people around the world who are affected by racism and discrimination. thank you, thank you.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. thank you, mr piebalgs, for that focused speech. i believe that the best way to measure progress is by what you set as your goal at the beginning of the debate. i remember the starting point as one in which neelie kroes and others came up with the analysis that despite several liberalization packages at european level, the market power of fewer and fewer players - large energy groups - in more and more countries of the european union, i.e. concentration in the energy sector, in the electricity sector as well as in the gas sector, is increasing. i was therefore very pleased that at the beginning of the debate both the commission and later the european parliament said that the most effective instrument against this concentration - especially in the electricity sector - is the separation of generation and grid. i would like to make a bet with you today that without this separation - as you have advocated in the first place - we will not have any real protection for consumers against arbitrary prices in the energy market. i would also like to place a bet with you that this parliament will be re-debating this instrument in the foreseeable future. because what we decide now will not be enough to break this power, this dominance of some energy companies. it will not be enough to prevent electricity and gas prices from rising further despite ever-increasing profits in the energy sector. it will not be enough to ensure transparency and consumer protection, as many colleagues here are promising in good faith. i must admit that the colleagues have fought very hard here. i would also point out that it was the corporations and some member states, and not the farsighted european politicians, who prevailed in this respect. i hope you will take the bet, and then in four years we will discuss the next step of liberalization and then really about unbundling.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we agreed that we want to make sure that people have a higher level of security of energy supply, that they have enough energy, that they can buy energy at a reasonable price. we have not been able to agree on the best means of achieving this. but today we have a result that can be seen, that is good, that is differentiated, because the question is also complicated, and there is no simple answer. the solution is: we have to make sure that more investment is made in the energy sector, in grids, in interconnectors, in new power plants. this is a very important question and it is also necessary to provide the necessary capital. on the contrary, we must ensure that those who supply energy are controlled and that there is real competition. i think it was the right solution to allow for differentiated models in the organization of the companies, and on the other hand to ensure strong control, a strong agency, strong cooperation of the regulators, and to ensure that not everyone can do what they want. but it is a wise solution to make offers that are differentiated according to national circumstances. if it is used properly, it is also one that can be sustainable and that can bring us a significant step forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not the same as it was at the beginning of the commission's survey. the data and facts are already much more diverse today, and we are already a significant step ahead, but what we decide now will take us even further.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have already said in a small circle that this debate on the energy package was not necessarily a matter of black or red, left or right. but she was ideologically driven. we saw that again today. i would like to offer my german colleague, mrs harms, the chance to accept the bet that in four years we will not be putting a fourth package on the table, but will manage with the instruments we have: regulating the market, making the networks more accessible, as has already been done in the federal republic of germany. you can look at positive examples. i am in favour of simply standing still and using the tools that have been given to us and seeing that they are implemented. secondly, i would like to call for the newly created agency of regulators to be given decisive powers, to take action and to apply the best practice from the member states. if that happens, i'm not afraid that we'll get a good result.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that we have achieved a great deal in this parliament in terms of the discharge procedure for the european institutions. i regret that it has taken so long, because we have only now completed everything that was due to be completed when the commission resigned in 1999 - that is, ten years ago. this shows that we need to improve our way of working and our procedures and to ensure that the necessary transparency is introduced more quickly when it comes to citizens knowing what taxpayers' money is being used for. i should like to thank in particular mr casaca, with whom i had the honour of working on the discharge for the epp group. i very much regret that a colleague who speaks very intensely through the press on various matters of the european parliament is not taking part in the committee's deliberations, in the votes in committee or in the plenary debate here. i want to make this very clear at this point so that it can be preserved and will be preserved for future generations! we know very well that there have been and are a number of problems here, and it was the members who are here now who have ensured that the necessary reforms have been achieved in a number of areas in the interests of the members over the last five years. i would like to thank you all very much for this. we have done what is necessary and we have not ensured that everything is broadly reported in the media, but not cooperated.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the audy report - thank you very much, rapporteur - is a real breakthrough because it contains innovative elements, namely naming and shaming - a milestone in budgetary control. targeted criticism instead of blanket accusations. the fact that the socialist group is now retreating and is preferring to sweep the truth under the carpet is a scandal and a disservice to our control tasks. the credibility of parliament is at stake and i appeal to my colleagues not to allow that to happen. a word to our most worried children, romania and bulgaria. the commission's failure to prepare for accession is most palpable here. we lost a lot of money. the commission has been watching for a long time and only in 2008 did it freeze funds for bulgaria, now over €1 billion, and for romania, around €142 million. but freezing money is not the answer. the cooperation and verification mechanism, for which the president of the commission is himself responsible, is a paper tiger, and the progress reports do not deserve the name. here the audy report makes suggestions for improvement. the eu commission has deceived parliament about the accession of these countries, and the commissioner for enlargement should actually draw the consequences. but we are concerned with the management of future accessions, and that is why this issue remains on the agenda. our group will give the commission discharge, but i personally will refuse to give the commission discharge. unfortunately, the commission's zeal for reform, which was once again a little sparkling last year, has already been extinguished. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is hoping that the council will take a decision on the matter. the commission and commissioner kallas in particular should be clear about one thing: whoever wants to be part of the new commission needs the support of parliament!
in writing. about 80% of eu funds are still managed and spent by the member states. and there are still open questions and irregularities in the handling of european union money. the european court of auditors has failed to confirm the legality and regularity of eu financial operations in its annual audit reports for 14 consecutive years. full disclosure and control of eu expenditure is essential. it is necessary that the finance ministers of the member states submit a national declaration of assurance for all eu funds used.
member of the commission. − mr president, nuclear safety is an absolute priority for the european union, as the rapporteur said, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very strong, clear and comprehensive report. as the use of nuclear energy in the european union is a reality and will be a reality, and nuclear safety is not constrained by national borders, we need a community-wide framework aiming at achieving, maintaining and continuously improving nuclear safety in the european union. this is the objective of the revised proposal for a directive that sets up a community framework for nuclear safety. the fundamental goal of the proposal is to establish binding legislation, the only solution that offers guarantees that political and industrial commitments to continuously improve nuclear safety are followed by concrete measures. these international atomic energy agency (iaea) safety fundamentals and the obligations of the convention of nuclear safety constitute the core of the directive. de facto, their transposition into binding community legislation would bring legal certainty. the proposal also aims at ensuring that national regulatory authorities in charge of nuclear safety are independent from any governmental decision-making body and any other organisation that would have an interest in nuclear matters. they can, therefore, preoccupy themselves solely with the safety of installations. the proposal aims to enhance the role of regulatory authorities by ensuring that the member states provide them with adequate authority, competence and human and financial resources to fulfil their responsibilities. the revised proposal takes into account the outcome of a consultation process that started in 2004 with the council’s working party on nuclear safety. it was discussed, before adoption, with the european nuclear safety regulators group, as well as in other fora. it also reflects the substance of the opinion given by the scientific group of experts, referred to in article 31 of the euratom treaty, and the current nuclear safety proposal is a second revision of the regional proposal in the area of nuclear safety. article 31 of the euratom treaty does not require a resubmission of the revised proposal to the scientific group of experts. moreover, close cooperation with the international atomic energy agency has ensured consistency with international practices. the commission agrees with most of the proposed amendments that reinforce the line taken. the report clearly recognises the obligation of the member states to respect the safety fundamentals stemming from the iaea and the provisions of the convention on nuclear safety, as well as seeking to reinforce the role of nuclear regulatory authorities and ensure their independent decision-making role. i am, therefore, confident that the council will take into consideration parliament’s position whenever it contributes to improving and clarifying the objectives of the directive.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this directive is irrelevant for all existing nuclear installations in the european union. this directive is also not relevant for high-risk projects, such as those currently planned in bulgaria, slovakia and romania. she's not gonna fit in there at all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i wonder why we as a parliament are being exploited in this way at this point in this alibi case, since we are not doing so to protect the safety of citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a wise decision, a wise proposal, and it is a wise decision for parliament to contribute to the achievement of uniformity in europe and to the implementation of more security provisions. it's our duty. mrs harms, it is not right to demand ever greater security in the nuclear field and to complain that nuclear technologies are not sufficiently secured, and on the other hand to take every opportunity to prevent such decisions here. i cannot complain that the european parliament is taking up this matter and then be dissatisfied and say that nuclear technology is not safe enough. we did our duty today. we are concerned about this, we are trying to contribute to the minimum safety of nuclear technology throughout europe and, of course, to contribute to the stabilization and support of nuclear technology as one of several options in the energy mix, as we have also agreed in other decisions adopted by a large majority. this includes answering the question: what about security? the answer must be given, it cannot be demanded all the time. this proposal is before us today and i hope that it will receive a majority tomorrow.
member of the commission. − madam president, today’s debate takes place at a time when we are facing the greatest challenge to the european economy in modern times. action is needed urgently: vigorous, targeted and comprehensive action in order to restore confidence, growth and jobs and to repair the financial system, to rebuild stability for the future, to promote trade and investment and to better protect our citizens – in short, to deliver an effective and stable financial system. based on the commission’s communication of the beginning of march, the spring european council set out a strong eu action plan for the future – a strategy to address the regulatory gaps in the financial sector, to restore incentives and to reform supervision to match the single eu financial market. in a few weeks’ time the commission will present its views on the road towards building a state-of-the-art supervisory framework in europe. these will be discussed by the heads of state or government in june. the commission is ready to put concrete measures on the table in the autumn. clearly, global problems also require global solutions. the eu initiative to agree a coordinated global response to the financial crisis has been very successful. at the london meeting, g20 leaders made extensive commitments to address the weak points of the financial system in a coordinated manner, to jointly build a new financial architecture while defending an open, global economy. the situation in the eu financial sector is serious. but a lot has already been done, and i am glad to note that the commission, the european parliament and the council have reacted quickly and cooperated closely to respond to the crisis. we are about to successfully conclude the adoption of three key measures: firstly, the regulation on credit-rating agencies; secondly, the recast of solvency ii, as well as, thirdly, the revision of the third and sixth company law directives on domestic mergers and divisions. firstly, the agreement reached on a regulation on credit-rating agencies will help address one of the problems that contributed to this crisis and thus will offer some prospect of restoring market confidence. the proposal adopted by the commission last november sets some clear objectives for improving integrity, transparency, responsibility and good governance of the credit-rating agencies. the thrust of the initial proposal is preserved in this regulation, which will in particular secure the analytical independence of credit-rating agencies, the integrity of the rating process and an adequate management of conflicts of interest that existed before in the rating process. moreover, a comprehensive supervisory regime will be put in place. european regulators will supervise the conduct of credit-rating agencies and take enforcement action where necessary. on the issue of supervision, i have been vocal about the need to strengthen supervisory cooperation. i have therefore no difficulty in agreeing on the need to push forward in this crucial domain. therefore, in order to ensure consistency and coherence in all relevant financial sector regulation, the commission agrees, on the basis of the recommendations of the de larosière report, to examine the need to strengthen the provisions of this regulation with regard to supervisory architecture. on the issue of the treatment of credit ratings issued in third countries, the outcome of the g20 summit has changed the global situation. all g20 members have agreed on regulating credit-rating agencies through the introduction of mandatory registration and oversight regime. that is why i agree with the solution agreed in the negotiations between the council and parliament on the treatment of ratings issued in third countries. i am pleased to note that the ambitious goals set by the commission proposal have been kept. the commission is very pleased with the outcome of the codecision process. let me now turn to solvency ii. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr skinner, and parliament for their work and their willingness to compromise in order to reach agreement in a single reading on this important subject. such an outcome will be widely welcomed by the eu insurance industry, by supervisors and by stakeholders in general. however, i also have to admit that i am disappointed with certain aspects of the compromise. the deletion of the group support regime, which i consider one of the most innovative aspects of the commission’s proposal, means that we will not be able to modernise – as much as we wanted – the supervisory arrangements for insurers and reinsurers operating on a cross-border basis. i also remain concerned that some of the amendments regarding the treatment of equity risk could result in the introduction of an imprudent regime for investment in risk-based capital. this is particularly the case for the amendments which introduce the so-called duration approach as a member state option. the commission will pay close attention to ensure that the implementing measures brought forward in this regard are prudentially sound. nonetheless, the commission will support the agreement between parliament and the council, if it is endorsed by your vote. the current solvency regime is over 30 years old. solvency ii will introduce an economic risk-based regime that will deepen integration of the eu insurance market, enhance policyholder protection and increase the competitiveness of eu insurers. as confirmed recently by ceiops in their report on lessons learned from the financial crisis, we need solvency ii more than ever as a first response to the present financial crisis. we need regulation that requires companies to properly manage their risks, that increases transparency and that ensures that supervisory authorities cooperate and coordinate their activities more effectively. solvency ii will bring about a regime for the insurance industry that can serve as a model for similar reforms internationally. the introduction of a review clause specifically mentioning the group support regime will enable the commission to come back to this issue. i expect that progress in a number of different areas, connected to the recommendations of the de larosière report, will have created a more favourable environment for reforms related to cross-border cooperation between home and host supervisors. i now turn to the weber report. thanks to the efficient work of the rapporteur, ms weber, it has been possible to identify a compromise on simplified reporting and documentation requirements, in the case of mergers and divisions of public limited liability companies which will maintain a very significant part of the savings potential of the original commission proposal, which amounts to eur 172 million per year. measurements and studies carried out in the context of reduction of administrative burdens show that company law is one of the most burdensome areas of the eu acquis. for several reasons, administrative burdens hit smes harder than bigger companies. an expert report from 2007 estimates that small enterprises spend 10 times the amount that large enterprises have to spend in order to comply with information obligations imposed by legislation. ten times, i repeat. at the same time, small businesses are the backbone of our european economy, and they are currently facing very difficult economic times. in the current difficult and challenging economic situation we cannot afford such impediments. instead we must strengthen our effort to ease the burden on our companies. in its resolution of 12 december 2007, the european parliament welcomed the commission’s determination to reach the goal of a 25% reduction in administrative burdens on undertakings at eu and national level by 2012 and underlined that it would examine legislative proposals in this light. today, only seven months after the proposal was put forward by the commission, i am very pleased with this compromise, even though the commission had gone even further in its original proposal. i look forward to parliament endorsing this compromise, which will rapidly bring significant benefits to companies, especially to smes. and we should not stop there. simplification and reducing red tape will remain at the heart of the commission’s agenda.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have already heard from the rapporteur where the critical but also the positive points of this outcome are on solvency ii. i think we can say that we have made a significant step forward in making the european insurance industry fit for the future, even in crisis situations. i think we have also worked out where the critical points are - as has already been said - namely in group supervision. combined with group support, of course, additional work is necessary. but in a crisis situation, when capital flows are not going as we normally imagine, it is obvious that we have to do some work here and also take into account the countries that are in difficulty. we have also discussed another matter which is essential, because we have at least 500 million consumers in the european union, all of whom are insured against so-called stock risks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have had to make a compromise here, which may one day be reflected in the review clause system. the important thing is that we can say that we have sent a signal here, a signal from the european union: europe is moving, europe is capable of action. i think that this signal has also been recognized in the united states, in china and in other places where they are working on these financial regulatory issues and preparing better systems for the future, especially in this situation. that's one of the important things. i would also like to make this very clear again about the past: we have had four presidencies - the fourth is now in progress. the negotiations were very different, influenced of course by the pressure exerted by the various member states, but we have reached a result. that's the one thing i've learned. the second is that we have worked with the insurance industry in europe and that here the impact studies on the individual areas have been very important. why would you do that? because we had to take the insurance industry into this very complicated system and this very complicated matter on the way to such a solution. if you consider that in the last impact study 1 400 companies participated - large and small, because we do not want to clean up the market, but we want to include everyone in the consumer's mind - then we have achieved a great success here. we have not been intimidated by certain pressure potentials, but together with the solvency ii negotiating team, we have taken the clear path in the interests of consumers, in the interests of the insurance industry, but above all, of course, in the interests of our parliamentary tasks.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the failures of the rating agencies in the run-up to the crisis have made their regulation inevitable. the objectives of this regulation for the registration of credit rating agencies are to increase transparency, ensure high quality, increase competition, overcome conflicts of interest and thus improve investor protection. the settlement was not easy, it was a difficult birth. the commission, parliament and council were far apart at the beginning, but overall the objectives have now been largely achieved. on the positive side, there will be only one category of ratings: there will no longer be category 1 and 2 for regulatory and other purposes. the conflicts of interest have been overcome, there will be no advisory services alongside the rating activities. cras from countries outside the european union have the opportunity to access and operate in the european market by using an equivalence system with certification - this is important for small cras - or by using the validation system - this can be used by large cras. cesr will play a key role in the registration and monitoring of credit rating agencies. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter. i am afraid that the rules and regulations will make it more difficult in practice to enter the european market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that would be negative. i hope that my fears will prove wrong in the future. we have gone too far in our internal management regulations - too far, in fact. it's almost an overkill. there are no comparable provisions in any other eu regulation. we would have been better off defining clear principles and leaving the implementation and shaping of these principles to the companies themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we're going to have to live with very little competition for many years.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. just as public security, justice or environmental protection, the stability of financial markets is a public good and should be publicly controlled. we 've seen it . if you leave the regulation of financial markets to the private sector, to big banks, insurance companies, hedge funds and rating agencies, you risk the risk of speculating huge sums in the search for maximum returns and, in the end, the general public having to pay for the losses. the crisis has shown all too clearly that voluntary self-regulation has failed. the commission is nevertheless firmly committed to this. instead of banning risky financial products and setting clear rules for the financial sector, private players should be able to decide for themselves what risks they take and how to assess them. we think that's irresponsible. it is now clear that the rating agencies, in the interest of profit, systematically underestimated the risks of structured finance products and thus really started trading in bad debt securities. it would therefore be appropriate to end the outsourcing of risk management to private, profit-oriented actors altogether and to create a public european rating agency that can independently assess the quality of different securities. the commission has not even considered this solution. the gauzès report rightly calls for the rating of sovereign debt to be regarded as a public task and therefore to be undertaken by public actors. but why should this principle apply only to government bonds? the commission and the rapporteurs also rely on the failed concept of self-regulation in the proposed solvency ii directive; for example, insurance groups should be allowed to use internal risk assessment models for the calculation of solvency and capital requirements. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i personally doubt that. in addition, both the capital requirements and the solvency capital requirements are far too low. you need to raise them up a little bit. since this could cause problems for some banks or insurance companies, we advocate that such an increase in equity capital be achieved through public participation, which is linked to an appropriate influence on business policy. such partial nationalisation would be a bold first step towards reorienting the financial sector towards the public good. in the longer term, the entire financial sector should be taken over by the public sector anyway. this is the only way to ensure that the financial sector fulfils its public mandate, rather than seeking ever higher returns on the global financial markets. it is really time to draw lessons from the catastrophe that has been wrought.
i have to say, madam president, we have today the first legislative proposals from the financial markets package. solvency ii was long overdue. i'll leave that out of the discussion. that was a very good negotiation. the results are useful and we will agree with them. one of the problems that has emerged with the rating agencies is that you can really say: this is a failure of the market and of politics. we have been asking the commission for years here in parliament to make proposals on various points concerning the causes of the financial crisis, which has taken a very long time. what has now been negotiated by mr gauzès is useful. it creates independent criteria, new supervisory structures and is indeed able to resolve this confusion of interests between advice and evaluation and to create more transparency. that's a reasonable suggestion. but it's not enough. i am reminded of the debate with the british prime minister, tony blair, who appeared here as if he had the answer before the g20 summit in london! the fact is that in the last decade there has been a refusal within the european union - particularly the uk, but also the european commission - to regulate things as they are. the commissioner has mentioned the evaluation and bonus systems for managers. i am not saying that the commissioner has not mentioned the evaluation and bonus systems for managers. there can't be no rules around here. we must also find a solution in may to the equity issue, for example in the case of securitisations, and we must also find a quick solution to the de larosière report on european supervisory structures. we cannot wait for the united states to answer all the questions. i call for us to do what we did with the climate package: let us take the lead as europeans and give the world a workable model! we have done our part to help the crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this is a really interesting and good debate, for the simple reason that when we look at the reports, we are combining two aspects that at first glance are not directly related, but are related to how we deal with the crisis and revive the economy. i was the shadow rapporteur on the weber report in the legal affairs committee, and i would first like to congratulate mrs weber on that report. the weber report is not about crisis management in the traditional sense, but about simplifying company law, helping to reduce red tape and the burden on business. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. i welcome that very much. as this debate also provides an opportunity to say something about the general financial market legislation, it should be noted that this too is a sign towards the end of this parliamentary term that we are now coming to a conclusion with the first financial market package and concluding the discussions here in this house at first reading. i think that's important, too. i would also like to point out that the second package, which the commission is preparing at the moment, is unfortunately too late for this parliament. there are reasons for this. you will recall that we have had a very good discussion in the past on the subject of the regulation of certain areas of the financial markets, in the committees in this house and on various occasions in the plenary. but there was massive resistance. there was resistance in the council of ministers: the socialist prime minister gordon brown refused for a long time to recognize certain realities. there has also been resistance within the commission. the commission has been resisting for a long time in the hedge fund sector and in other sectors, and resistance has also been shown here in the house. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro, the euro, the introduction of the euro, the euro, the euro. i'm glad everyone's come to their senses. charly mccreevy regulates hedge funds, mrs berès allows private sector reports and gordon brown has also changed his mind. this is a good development, which i - also on behalf of my group - strongly welcome.
i have to say, madam president, i want to make three brief points. first, we have reached a good consensus that in the future all financial institutions must be subject to regulation, that none can be exempted. the commission is now in a position to make proposals, step by step, which involve all the parties concerned. it is absolutely imperative. secondly, we should consider how to build and control the european financial supervision that will be necessary and how to significantly reduce our dependence on the institutions of regulation in america, whether formal or informal, because we know that they have failed massively. the third point is: i am concerned about the development of the financial sector in the euro area as a whole, because the spreads and the debt between the different countries, the credit rating of the different countries in the euro area are developing apart instead of together. we should take all the measures we can and demand discipline from the individual countries. the last point is that we must ensure that the eu is not in a position to go into debt. the eu countries are deeply in debt. we don't need another debt institution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to begin by thanking mrs pervenche berès for submitting a draft report so quickly. we have a two-step process. the first is the hearing or the opinion on the council regulation. this is not a codecision procedure. we in the committee were unanimous in our view that the increase from 12 to 25 to 50 billion euros was the right step. three countries have already applied for funds: hungary, as mr becsey has already said, and latvia and romania, which have also applied for funds for internal policy. we can use these european funds to provide effective aid to actively support countries in payment difficulties. we must not forget, however, that the international institutions have also decided to increase the resources of the international financial institutions - the imf, the world bank and the development banks - by us$ 1.1 trillion. so we have a double instrumental. europe has contributed to the increase in funds and europe has taken its own responsibility. in this context, the draft resolution on which we voted last night in the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the basis of compromise proposals is also suitable for expressing the desires, the guidelines and the requirements of the commission and the council responsible for the future legislative process. there is a legal question here with regard to the eurobonds and article 100, which only binds the eurozone. if we point out that there is no legal basis for eurobonds in the treaties at the moment, then this is the right way to go. on the other hand, the commission must be given a mandate to examine the conditions under which such measures are possible. i think that's a responsible way to go. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we hope that this is not the beginning of some kind of additional european financial responsibility that would blow up every budget. the limitation to 50 billion euros is therefore entirely responsible at the moment. if there are new challenges, you will not be able to close them off.
member of the commission. − mr president, mr becsey raised the question of the conditionality attaching to loans. let me just say that conditions are discussed with governments and with all member states within the council, so they are not imposed unilaterally. a number of speakers raised the question of the legal base on which this particular provision has been made. the use of article 100 as the basis for a new instrument on eu balance of payment assistance has been considered by the commission. however, due to the urgency of the matter and to ensure continuity, it has been fair to stick to the current legal instruments and limit the revision of regulation (ec) no 332/2002, establishing a facility providing medium-term financial assistance for non-euro-area member states to a minimum, i.e. to the increase in the ceiling as agreed by the european council, and to some necessary technical improvements that appear necessary on the basis of the experience gained with the implementation of the balance of payments facility since last autumn. a number of speakers raised that particular point. let me once again thank the european parliament for the efficient way that it has dealt with this particular file.
i am not going to go into detail. i have the honour to welcome you all. i'm particularly pleased to have foreign minister schwarzenberg with us. mr foreign minister, welcome to the european parliament. (applause from the centre) the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we can conclude this procedure at the first reading because we have managed to work very well across the political groups and with the other institutions. i would therefore like to express my gratitude to my colleagues in this house, to the council, to the commission, to the itre committee secretariat, to the economic and social committee and, of course, to the large research community behind it. we are therefore looking at a european research project which will in future involve the cooperation of the 22 national metrology institutes. this will bring about a considerable europeanisation of this important area of the fair. in addition, we will have stronger cooperation in the five member states where this structure does not yet exist. we have achieved this through article 169. this means that we apply it by coordinating national and european research funds. this is 200 million euros each, and we will achieve national cooperation with this. research in measurement covers all areas, from diabetes research to nanotechnology and space, and will be important in the future throughout the whole range of co2 standard setting. i would like to thank all those involved once again. i hope that this will lead to greater european cooperation in this important area of research in the future.
member of the commission. − mr president, since the adoption of the new cotton reform by council in june 2008, much work has been invested in setting up restructuring programmes in the main cotton-producing member states. this proposal is the commission’s response to the council’s invitation to propose adjustments to the framework for these restructuring programmes. the main modification concerns the possibility of introducing an eight-year, instead of a four-year, programme, which would allow for more substantial restructuring operations. the commission thanks the rapporteur for the support given to the commission proposal.
we are pleased when the commission expresses appreciation for our work. that should always be the case.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the adoption of the weber report endorsed in the compromise text on simplified reporting and documentation requirements in the case of mergers and divisions of public limited liability companies. even though the commission had gone even further in its original proposal, this will maintain a very significant part of the savings potential of the original commission proposal, which amounts to eur 172 million per year. the agenda on administrative burden reduction is advancing, and this will contribute to the potential for growth and help europe on the way to recovery.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to express my appreciation and admiration for the efficient handling of the solvency ii file by the european parliament and for your willingness to compromise. with solvency ii, the eu will have a modern framework for insurance supervision, which will then be official for the insurance industry and for policyholders. i personally regret the deletion of the group support regime, because it is a missed opportunity to make further progress in group supervision. however, the commission will support the agreement between parliament and the council if it is endorsed by your vote. this, of course, is not the end of the story. much work remains to be done: implementing measures will need to be in place some time before october 2012 in order to give the member states and the industry enough time to prepare for the introduction of solvency ii. i can assure you that the commission will play its role in order to facilitate this process and to put these long overdue reforms into practice as soon as possible in the interests of all parties concerned.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me remind you that the council has always examined the opinions and resolutions of parliament with great interest and attention. at the same time, the council has taken the issue of human rights very seriously, as evidenced in the contractual relations of the european union with countries in various parts of the world. under the cotonou agreement, a treaty between the european union and the group of african, caribbean and pacific states, there have been more than 15 cases since 1995 when the community has partially or fully suspended the application of agreements in relation to some of the countries for non-execution of obligations relating to the human rights clause. you will certainly also know about the sanctions the council imposed on uzbekistan following the andijan events in 2005. of course, much remains to be done in the field of human rights and respect for the rule of law and democracy in turkmenistan. we will continue to push, in particular, for the release of all political prisoners, for free access of the international committee of the red cross to prisons, for lifting of the restrictions on foreign travel and for freedom of the media in civil society. we are committed to taking appropriate measures in conformity with the agreement, including, if necessary, the suspension of the agreement with turkmenistan, in case of a violation of human rights, as stipulated in the agreement.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission has carefully taken note of parliament’s concerns about the democracy and human rights situation in turkmenistan. we welcome the statement in the joint draft resolution that the conclusion of an interim trade agreement would be a good first step that will allow us to engage more with turkmenistan in order to promote further positive developments and cooperation. the commission is aware of parliament’s concerns regarding the possibility of suspending the agreements. i recall the statement by my colleague, ms ferrero-waldner, at the debate last month that both the interim trade agreement (article 1) and the pca (article 2) contain human rights clauses which constitute an essential element of those agreements. as well as these provisions, article 28 of the ita and article 94 of the pca will enable each side to take appropriate measures in case of grave violations of the agreements. in the commission’s view, these measures could also include the suspension of the agreements. the commission undertakes to monitor closely the human rights situation in turkmenistan, together with member states, and to report on a regular basis to the appropriate bodies of parliament. should parliament recommend taking measures in the light of reported grave violations of essential elements of the interim trade agreement, especially with regard to human rights, the commission will seriously consider duly reflecting parliament’s recommendations in its proposal to the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out that in its debate and in its papers parliament has asked both the commission and the council to declare that if parliament calls for the suspension or withdrawal of this treaty, the commission and the council will comply. the explanations were very different. the president of the council has not made any statement on how the council will behave if parliament so requests. the commissioner only replied that the commission would consider what it would do if parliament asked it to do so. i would like to point out that the european parliament's demands have not been met in any way - by either the commission or the council - and i can therefore only recommend that we do not agree to it now. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have been debating the issue of turkmenistan in various committees of this parliament for three and a half years now. we have european treaties which we as a parliament must also respect, even if we do not like them in certain cases. we have succeeded in getting the council and the commission to give us today, in their statements, the commitments that are possible within the framework of the european treaties. the commission and the council have agreed to give serious consideration to following us as parliament in giving opinions and, if necessary, calling for the suspension of the agreement. we all know that more is unfortunately not possible for us as a parliament within the framework of the european treaties. we should not make the mistake of using our relations with one country as a scourge to extract more power for the european parliament. i would ask you to accept the statements made by the council and the commission. that's all there was. i ask you to agree to the signing of the agreement in this context and on these conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to put a slightly different emphasis on this debate from the point of view of the committee on budgets, the committee on foreign affairs and the subcommittee on security and defence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that is not the case at all. the council and the subcommittee on security and defence have developed excellent cooperation and we are being kept informed of all the details. i also want to talk about the budgetary aspects. the committee on budgetary control is not involved in this, it is an internal matter of the european parliament. but the chairs of the committee on budgets, the committee on foreign affairs and the subcommittee on security and defence are regularly informed of budgetary aspects. this is parliamentary control that is taking place here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it may be that things have gone very unsatisfactory from the point of view of the committee on budgetary control. i also find it unsatisfactory that the council is not present at this debate. but when you hear nonsensical statements like those made by mr martin, you get the impression that there is no democratic control of this important issue of security and foreign policy in the european union. there are more important matters, for example the question of which accounts mr solana's travels are financed from. there is the question of the operation in chad, in the congo, in georgia and many other things. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have just been addressed by mr martin in a very rude manner. i will certainly not give mr martin any personal information about my personal circumstances. i am prepared to give any information that may be necessary, because what is being suggested here is completely unfounded.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have an interest in resolving this conflict. but this solution will only be possible if the council moves. we followed procedures, we sent reporters, then the four coordinators wrote letters and asked questions. all this has not been answered by reference to a gentlemen's agreement, which, please, never applied to discharge, which always applied only to the budgetary session, and since only the administrative part, the operational part, has never been covered by this gentlemen's agreement. when it was made, there was no operative part. the council must offer us a solution. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am a little ashamed of you because of the spectators up there, because that is the bad, the arrogant europe. we are no longer in a monarchy and it is time for the council to follow the path of democracy, a greater democracy, which it has always also included in the treaties. we would urge you to stop making a fool of this parliament and the council should also stop making a fool of itself.
the president-in-office of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here today on behalf of my colleague from the government, minister of transport peter bendl, who had to remain in prague unexpectedly. thank you for giving me the opportunity to address you before the vote on the "road package" tomorrow. i would like to recall that the czech presidency considers the finalisation of this body of legislation to be of great importance. this package is important in view of the need for a clear and harmonised approach due to the different practices in the member states regarding the use of the existing cabotage system, as well as in view of the approach of operators to the transport sector. with the support and assistance of the rapporteurs, the bureau has succeeded in achieving a successful outcome on this important body of legislation. i know that everyone has made a great effort to achieve this result and that everyone has had to make certain compromises. during the negotiations, all showed a constructive approach with a view to reaching an agreement at second reading. the main elements of our discussions can be summarised as follows: more precise rules on cabotage, the possibility for coach drivers in occasional international transport to work 12 consecutive days and stricter controls on transport companies. the road transport sector can now quickly benefit from simplified cabotage rules and control mechanisms, as well as from uniform and enforceable provisions for access to the transport sector. this also means that there will be clear rules to prevent abuse and will contribute to fair competition, greater efficiency and better control in this area. the cabotage compromise will make a significant contribution to a more transparent, efficient and safe market for the carriage of goods by road. it will contribute to further improving the road freight market, while creating a fairer and more transparent framework for the entire road freight sector. the number of empty vehicle journeys on community roads will be reduced, thus contributing to the reduction of co2 emissions. the compromise also provides that member states shall use appropriate safeguards to prevent disturbances in the road haulage market caused by cabotage. the new cabotage rules shall apply six months after the publication of the regulation in the official journal. the european commission will also assess in 2013 the possibility of further steps concerning the possible opening of the road transport market and the liberalisation of cabotage. i am convinced that the new legal framework for freight and passenger transport in the european union will make a significant contribution to the rapid and sustainable recovery of our economies. i thank parliament for the work it has done to secure agreement in the negotiation of this package, and i would like to thank in particular rapporteur silvia-adriana ţicău and rapporteur mathieu grosch, whose hard work and dedication helped to ensure a successful outcome.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the commission can only welcome the compromise reached on the road package, because it will enable us to conclude the legislative procedure at a time when the transport industry needs simple and effective rules and at the same time freedom from unnecessary bureaucratic constraints. i must say that the decision we are taking also helps to make our roads safer, because i believe that whenever we are involved in the transport sector and road transport in particular, we must always have before us the objective of halving the number of road deaths in our european union and the rules that parliament is adopting, i believe, help to achieve this objective. we are pleased, however, that this is another signal that the european institutions are giving to the citizens on the eve of the elections and that the legislative procedure can be concluded at second reading just two years after the presentation of three important legislative proposals, which are complex and perhaps difficult to discuss, but in the end the sense of the institution prevailed, common sense prevailed, the political will prevailed to respond to the demands of the citizens and the transport sector in general. i should like to briefly touch on the issues we are discussing and also to give some answers to the questions put by the rapporteurs. i shall start with access to the international market for transport services by bus: it is true that cabotage is a very limited aspect of the overall transport activity, but it is a very politically sensitive aspect. if cabotage is used in addition to international transport, it also contributes to better capacity utilization and to a reduction in empty trips, which means a reduction in the number of heavy vehicles on the roads - and you know how many road accidents involve large cars. this regulation will clarify the rules on cabotage which will be applicable and i am particularly addressing this comment to mr grosch in a uniform and non-bureaucratic manner throughout the european union without affecting the cooperation which currently exists between member states under article 306 of the treaty. in addition, the cumbersome national procedures still in place will be abolished to allow transport companies to make the most of cabotage, and the commission will closely monitor the development of the road transport market and publish a report in 2013. if the report deems it appropriate and if the conditions for fair competition are better harmonized, the commission will propose greater opening of the cabotage market. the commission has made a statement to that effect which will be forwarded to the secretariat of parliament so that it can be included in the reports of this debate. the declaration will also be published in the official journal together with the legislative proposal. i now turn to mrs ţicău's work on the common rules on the conditions for the exercise of the occupation of road haulage operator. the commission welcomes the introduction of a new 12-day rule, a tailor-made rule which takes account of the very special conditions of certain types of passenger transport which require a duration of more than 6 days, but do not normally require a high number of driving hours, such as school trips, ski holidays or special trips. the new regulation also provides for extremely strict measures to ensure that road safety is not jeopardised, and i would stress this point. there are still 100 different community licence formats in force in the european union today, which makes checks often difficult and time-consuming. under the new rules, a standard type and format of community licence will be used throughout the european union. i now come to the third text under discussion: access to the international road haulage market. in an increasingly open market, it is necessary to harmonise the conditions imposed by the undertakings competing in that market. this is the aim of the new regulation which replaces a directive which at the same time makes the conditions which companies must meet more stringent. each undertaking will have to appoint a transport manager, responsible for the smooth running of the whole undertaking. in addition, to avoid so-called shell companies, greater guarantees will have to be provided with regard to the location of companies. a new electronic register will also be developed to enhance the exchange of information between national authorities and to make checks smarter and more efficient. here again we are in the complementary field of road safety. finally, transport companies are now receiving a very clear message from the legislator about the most serious shortcomings that lead to the withdrawal of the licence, such as the repeated history of the manipulation of tachographs. unfortunately, this is a practice that is repeated in all the countries of the european union, but the manipulation is not only a violation of the rules, but it also endangers the safety of those who travel on the roads of the european union, because it is obvious that tired drivers are not able to have ready reflexes in the event of any difficulties. that is why i said at the beginning of my speech that these regulations which parliament is about to adopt are also making a serious and important contribution to our common struggle, the commission and parliament, to reduce drastically the number of road deaths. that is why i thank you for your willingness to contribute in a timely manner to the adoption of these regulations. i repeat, it is a strong signal to the european citizens and a demonstration that once again parliament - and i say this also because i have sat on the benches of this parliament for 15 years - has shown great efficiency and great seriousness, and i thank you for that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to thank the council and the commission for their good cooperation with the rapporteur of our parliament. this is a very good example of how, as the vice-president, mr tajani, himself has said, a good result can be achieved in a short time, even in difficult cases. i must say, however, that we are not very happy with the cabotage arrangements. the council representative has indicated - and you have also indicated, mr vice-president - that it is better for environmental reasons and for economic reasons in themselves to avoid empty cars in europe. it is therefore better that we should soon be able to lift the cabotage restriction altogether. as a temporary measure, we'll accept three cabotage trips in seven days, but we're looking forward to your report and hope that your report says that 2014 is over. because it is a minimal area for transport, but it is a waste of money and it is bad for the environment. so i hope that in 2013 you will make a correct proposal, because in a european single market of 27 countries, a cabotage restriction is actually absurd. i should also like to thank the council and the commission for finally supporting us in the reintroduction of the 12-day bus regime. this is very important for the bus industry, which is mediumsized in many countries, because the introduction of two drivers for such - mostly - senior journeys has caused problems for mediumsized companies. we're glad this expires in six months. you have to see that there are many people, especially elderly people, who do not like to fly, but who still want to travel in europe as tourists, to enjoy the sun in italy or spain or wherever, and that is why it is important that we have made it possible, by reintroducing the 12-day rule for buses, to come to cost-effective situations where the elderly can travel. it is a great success for us, for the bus companies, for the passengers, and for that i would like to thank the council and the commission.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the road transport package comprises three complementary themes with significant impacts on the goods and passenger transport markets. it brings benefits to entrepreneurs, drivers and users, especially under the current economic constraints. it also serves to improve the safety of our roads, to increase the efficiency of transport and to protect the environment in a sustainable way. i welcome the decision to adopt the form of a regulation to achieve the ambitious objectives. cabotage bans lead to empty journeys which we cannot afford and do not want to do, either financially or from an energy or environmental point of view. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. that is why it is being tackled gradually. cabotage shall be permitted provided that it does not become a permanent or continuous activity in a member state in which the carrier is not established. this first step does not mean, unfortunately, the full opening up of the domestic road transport markets, but at the same time it opens the way to full opening up. empty cars are already being reduced, the environment is being protected. in the context of access to the crossborder passenger transport market, the main objective is to reduce red tape by simplifying and speeding up the authorisation procedure for crossborder scheduled services. documents are harmonized, controls simplified. i very much welcome the introduction of the revised 12-day rule for organised crossborder bus trips. this benefits holidaymakers and bus companies alike, without compromising safety. this is a citizen-friendly policy. the admission to the profession of road transport operator will in future be subject to specific and transparent conditions. this raises the profile of the profession, ensures the recognition of professional qualifications and helps to combat dumping. increased safety and reliability will be on the horizon.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to say to my predecessor that we are always watching the greek islands and the greek ferry companies. he doesn't have to worry about that! i can say on behalf of my group that we are pleased that for the first time we have also legally regulated civil rights for passengers in the event of delays and cancellations in both sea and inland waterway transport and in intercity bus transport. we should like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr albertini and mr teychenné. we have worked well together in the committees and good results have come out. i want to touch on a few points. i think that compensation of 25% for passengers on board ships arriving two or three hours late is perfectly acceptable, and 50% for those arriving more than three hours late. but, mr teychenné, 100% compensation beyond that is simply disproportionate. if we consider that shipping companies are not always huge companies, but that in the ferry sector in particular they are also small and mediumsized companies, then compensation must be handled with prudence. we have already discussed that we must also be careful not to assign responsibility for shipping to the wrong people or institutions. we all in this house are working to ensure that in both dossiers assistance is provided in particular to passengers with reduced mobility. but the problems of access to port facilities cannot be solved by the ship owner, they have to be solved by the port. that means we have to be very careful. as far as the rights of bus passengers are concerned, i would point out that there are factual differences between intercity buses and city buses. you just have to take that into account. that is why my group believes that we are right to want reasonable passenger rights for intercity buses. but city and suburban buses have completely different conditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank the rapporteur very warmly. in the context of climate change, urban transport plays a central role, as it is responsible for 70% of all climate-damaging emissions. only a different transport policy in the eu will be able to achieve its own climate protection objectives. the greatest potential lies in cities, where 90% of all car journeys are less than 6 km, making them ideal for switching to buses, trains, bicycles or walking. we are pleased that there is a majority in favour of granting eu funds only if cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants can also submit a sustainable mobility plan. we regret that our proposal for a general speed limit of 30 km/h in cities, with the possibility for cities to allocate higher speeds for certain roads, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, did not receive a majority. not only would that be good for the climate, it would also reduce the number of accidents. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have been studying urban transport in the eu for a long time now. why would you do that? we're not in charge! the jurisdiction was originally designed because about 80% of the population lives in urban areas and because of the climate debate, they wanted to take care of it now. fortunately, our protest has reduced the european commission's ambitions to an action plan on urban transport. i thank commissioner tajani for his insight. subsidere is actually more like support than prescription, but he knows that better as an italian than i do as a german with only a large latinum. i am particularly concerned that our report, parliament's report, should emphasize the strict observance of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. legislation at european level is inadmissible for urban transport. support measures, that's our job. it is useful to gather ideas and to encourage the exchange of best practice. not everyone has to reinvent the wheel. our cities need tailor-made solutions. but they can only be developed by the local actors, because only they know what is necessary. the municipalities have to cope with very different situations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not distorted. it's important to the appeal of a city. it is therefore important not to block motorized individual traffic and to take more care of the logistics in the city. i therefore want to see research on the distribution of enemies in the inner cities promoted. it's a relief to a city. it is also important to take account of demographic change. our society is getting older. mobility and housing needs are changing. we need to provide the population with daily necessities close to home if we are to reduce traffic, and this is also a challenge for retailers. anything else would just be to promote the green grass. we don't need a traffic observatory in the city. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i have to say, madam president, i fully support the commission's objective of creating a legal framework for the coordinated introduction and use of intelligent transport systems in road transport. my personal struggle over many years to get the ecall, the electronic emergency call system, into series production, has made the urgency clear to me almost daily. but intelligent transport systems can do much more. they are designed to promote environmental friendliness, efficiency, safety and non-discriminatory competitiveness in road haulage and passenger transport. they also support co-modality, including through the development of interfaces with other modes of transport such as rail, waterways and air transport, where the introduction of intelligent transport systems has already begun. all this cannot be achieved by the member states alone, but only as a community task. intelligent transport systems, based on eu-wide mandatory basic standards and minimum quality requirements, improve the environment for innovation and provide planning certainty, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. i particularly welcome the planned open, vehicle-integrated platform for intelligent transport system services. the action plan finally includes a timetable for the introduction of individual systems, a) for road safety such as esp and ecall, b) for continuity in traffic management, e.g. information on tolls or parking space management will avoid searching traffic, c) the use of real-time road, traffic and travel data will enrich not only professional drivers but all road users. the directive sets out detailed requirements for the uniform, coordinated and eu-wide implementation of intelligent transport systems and their application in the member states, and also safeguards the handling of personal data. but be careful! the introduction of intelligent transport systems is costly, as infrastructure and vehicles need to be equipped with the necessary information and communication technologies. we still know too little about the willingness and ability to pay of potential users.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. the shift of freight from road to rail and inland waterway shipping, or short sea shipping, has been a constant theme in our transport policy discussions for decades. now, of course, in the context of the climate change debate, this discussion has taken on new weight. we now have quite a number of different policy approaches and instruments to achieve this shift. but if we look closely, in practice, reversing is extremely difficult and we only succeed in the rarest of cases. firstly, because the links between the modes of transport are still not sufficiently harmonized. secondly, because rail and inland waterway transport are not yet sufficiently established as european service providers, and thirdly, because the environmentally friendly modes of transport are of course not in a position to offer door-to-door delivery in principle. all these difficulties are being aggravated by the dramatic fall in road freight prices in the current recession. this whole problem has also been felt by marco polo ii. that is why we in transport policy are keen to find a solution. the objective we once set of 'marco polo' helping to shift 60% of road freight growth is far from being achieved. so we have to change course before the end of the parliamentary term, and to do that we have found a compromise which is very reasonable. what's to be done? firstly, even before this proposal for a regulation, the commission had already given an agency the task of administering the programme and simplifying the administrative procedures. that makes sense. we have found a whole series of points in the compromise and negotiated together to make the programme more attractive. firstly, the reduction of the thresholds for motorways of the sea from 250 to 200 million tonne-kilometres per year; secondly, the reduction of the thresholds for transport transfer operations from 80 to 60 million tonne-kilometres and the same for inland waterway operations: parliament has been particularly strong in this respect, from 17 to 13 million tonne-kilometres. we have also increased the allowable amount of aid for additional infrastructure from 10% to 20%. that makes sense. and we have finally insisted that economic crises, such as we are having now, can also be considered as grounds for extending the contract. so we've really increased the appeal of the program. the compromise we have now reached was also made possible by a high degree of consensus among all the members of parliament, who have put aside legitimate reflections and principled debates at this point in order to get the programme back on track quickly. the commission's proposal for a 'marco polo iii' proposal is therefore in need of a general debate, so that we can bring forward all the points which are necessary for our future direction. we also want to know what the impact of the adjustment we are making is. it is a matter for a vote and i hope for your support tomorrow.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the second 'marco polo' programme to improve the environmental performance of freight transport will be voted on tomorrow. marco polo ii offers greater planning certainty as it is scheduled to run until 31 december 2013. it has a budget of 450 million euros. the thresholds for the eligibility of proposed projects are to be lowered compared to marco polo i, which is equivalent to making them more accessible to smes. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for this. this is a policy which is close to the people and which i can fully support, especially in view of the current economic situation of many small and mediumsized enterprises. the programme aims to shift traffic and reduce congestion on the roads. it will also strengthen co-modality, thus contributing to an efficient and sustainable transport system. if the vote is in favour, which i recommend for tomorrow, the legislative procedure will be closed at first reading.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in closing i would like to answer some questions put by the honourable members, and thank them for their support for this agreement at first reading, which will certainly help to improve the effectiveness of the second marco polo programme. i would like to inform you that already next year my services - which i thank again for the work done - will start to reflect on the marco polo programme beyond 2013 and this reflection will focus, among other things, on the points provided for in the compromise agreement and in particular i would like to stress the need to distinguish between financing conditions in the different modes of transport, on the basis of safety as well as environmental and energy efficiency, on the need to establish demand-oriented assistance at the stage of submission of applications, taking into account the needs of small and micro transport enterprises, the recognition of the economic recession as an exceptional reason for extending the duration of projects, the reduction of the thresholds for product-specific eligibility. i would like to reassure mr blokland on the subject of lowering the thresholds, because the compromise text we are approving for inland navigation already provides for a lower threshold for inland navigation. i do not think that more could have been done because it would have increased administrative costs, but i think that the signal you are asking for has certainly been given. let's go back to the thinking for the marco polo program beyond 2013: i said, the topics will also include the possibility of indicating the reference values of the minimum funding thresholds for the proposed projects in terms of energy efficiency and environmental benefits, as well as tonne-kilometres transferred. in addition, the possibility of ensuring consistency between the marco polo programme, the logistics action plan and the ten-t programme by taking appropriate measures to coordinate the allocation of community funds, in particular for motorways of the sea; in addition, the specific characteristics of the inland waterway sector and its small and medium-sized enterprises need to be taken into account, for example, by means of a specific programme for this particular sector of shipping. the commission's objective is to present the communication on the future of the programme, possibly together with a proposal for a marco polo 3 programme, in the course of 2011.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. commissioner, i agree with you. we can send a positive message tomorrow that we can also make meaningful changes to our legislation, if necessary, closer to the citizen. we should not only spread this message but also launch an information campaign in the european countries so that the attractiveness of this programme can be exploited quickly, because we have really turned all the screws. there are really bargain deals now. if you can't get something to move now, then you really have to question the whole program. i hope, mrs jensen, that we don't have to put the money into other programmes, because the cause is important. we must and we want to shift traffic wherever possible, but it is difficult. and to mr blokland: you have already received the answer. we have renegotiated the inland waterway agreement and have, so to speak, pressed the council for an additional compromise. we were trying to get through the first reading. we have to be careful not to go too far and to negotiate in a compromise and consensus-based way. we've done a lot of good for that. i look forward to the debate on the principles which we will be having for the third programme in time, on the basis of a promised communication from the commission, so that we can then discuss all the fundamental questions - whether we should split the programmes up into individual modes of transport and so on, all that we have listed in a joint compromise proposal - . then it gets exciting again. now it just has to work so that nothing is stopped and already started projects may be stopped in this crisis. that would be a real pity and that is why we have to compromise. thank you again for all your efforts.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, i should like to thank parliament for agreeing to examine so quickly a proposal which i consider extremely important for the development of rail freight transport. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr duchamp, and the committee on transport for the availability and quality of the work they have done, which has helped to support a legislative proposal which aims first of all to integrate rail transport better at european level through closer cooperation between infrastructure managers. rail transport is the last, and i repeat the last, mode of transport which has retained a strongly national dimension. very often crossing borders by train is still difficult. infrastructure managers are largely responsible for this difficulty and their cooperation must be encouraged, both in infrastructure management and in planning and implementing investment. europeanization of infrastructure is necessary for goods which already have a significant international dimension. i should like to remind you that 50% of freight services are now international and that this figure is likely to increase in the future. secondly, the proposal is intended to allow the development of rail freight services. this sector will not be able to develop and compete with and/or complement the road sector without a considerable improvement in the infrastructure made available to freight trains. today, in a large majority of member states, rail freight is considered an adjustment variable compared with passenger transport. unfortunately, this is true for infrastructure management as much as for investment. thirdly, this proposal will make it possible to integrate railways more closely into the freight transport system and develop co-modality in europe. in order for rail transport to make a substantial contribution to the community's transport objectives, rail infrastructure needs to be better connected to other modes of transport, in particular to maritime and road transport. but in addition to the main objectives of the proposal, i would like to mention four essential principles on which the text we are discussing is based. the first principle is the identification of the corridors and therefore of the network. this is based on economic rather than political considerations. the second principle is enhanced cooperation between infrastructure managers. the third principle, on which i would like to dwell for a moment, concerns the best guarantees in terms of quality and reliability of the services provided by the infrastructure through provisions aimed at achieving a better balance between passenger traffic and freight traffic in the management of the infrastructure. this does not mean systematically giving priority to freight trains over passenger trains on the entire national network. on the contrary, and i would like to stress this concept in particular, on freight-oriented corridors, that is to say on specific and clearly identified lines, this means not systematically disadvantaging freight trains, particularly those with higher demands on speed and/or punctuality. this is, in our view, the most concrete translation of the definitions of a freight-oriented corridor or a competitive freight corridor. finally, fourth point, fourth pillar: the definition and establishment of a genuine network of strategic terminals. in this case the term terminal is understood in the broadest sense: railway stations, port terminals, logistics platforms, roads, railways, etc. which are essential for the smooth functioning of the freight corridor and the transport system in which they are located. that is what i wanted to say when i thank you again for your timeliness and the efficiency of parliament, which i am pleased to recall as a member of the european parliament for many years. i would like to thank the rapporteur, the committee on transport, for the work they have done. thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, and also those of you who are still here, and in particular mr lübbering, i would like to thank you for your work. my group supports the commission's fundamental concern to increase rail freight transport by creating cross-border transport corridors and creating special arrangements for this purpose. mr president, we not only thank you for the proposal, we thank you for holding out until just before 12 o'clock this evening, but we are happy to work. thank you, thank you. however, and there may have been a slip of the tongue in announcing your commission proposal, our group, together with our good rapporteur, firmly believes that there should be no absolute priority for freight trains over all other trains, but only easier access for freight traffic. in almost all member states, the railway networks will be used by freight trains as well as international, national, regional and suburban trains. in particular, in the event of disruption, it is not possible for any remote body to decide, but responsibility must remain with the respective infrastructure managers and railway companies in order to restore train traffic as quickly and efficiently as possible. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be responsible for the creation and modification of freight corridors within the specific framework for the european rail freight network. the commission's proposal is not a good one, and we should all agree on that. finally, railway companies, shippers and carriers should be consulted on the arrangements for the corridors. because they have the practical knowledge and experience of how to use rail networks most effectively for competitive freight transport. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again. he has made a great report which has been accepted by the committee with great satisfaction. i would like to thank the rapporteur.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i too thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. we in the green group also want more freight transport by rail, but not at the expense of passenger trains. the mobility of people is a vital part of life in europe. the commission ignores the realities of europe's rail networks, where goods and people are transported on the same track. there must be no dogmatic priority for either of the two. the greens want to create a single point of contact for all those who want to send freight trains across europe with the so-called one-stop shops. we also want more transparency in the award of tracks and in the event of operational disruptions, also to avoid unfair distortions of competition. the commission and you, as the guardian of the contracts, must put an end to a practice which allows state-owned companies to reserve routes free of charge, just to keep out competitors. our proposals for reducing noise, particularly in the transport of goods, were rejected by the grand coalition in this house. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are environmentally friendly, in particular by upgrading the existing freight wagons.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rail freight market is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the rail freight market is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. that's what this is about. the present report has allayed legitimate fears that the quality of passenger transport will be reduced by rigid rules on the way ahead for goods. but we will have to work on the report a little further, because we are process workers and we are only at the first reading. in future we will have to take account of the reactions of the member states. we need a different basis for calculating the number of corridors. parliament has proposed one per country. i think that in germany we need a north-south and an east-west corridor. secondly, we have to consider whether in areas where there is perhaps less mixed traffic, alternative corridors are possible. thirdly, it must be clear that the overall capacity of rail transport must not be reduced. last but not least, some citizens fear that more freight traffic on the railway will also lead to more noise. we must therefore start with sensible legislation on noise reduction in rail freight transport as soon as the next parliamentary term begins. i look forward to the work ahead. there's still some work to be done. i thank the rapporteur, because this was a really good compromise in a very controversial matter.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not first of all, on behalf of my group, i would like to wish john bowis all the best. i know he worked hard until the last day of the committee vote, and now i hope he recovers from his surgery and is soon fit enough to be here before the summer break. let me begin by saying that my group is very pleased with this report. we see that with many amendments by the committee on the environment, with compromises that we have reached together, the commission's proposal has been improved. mrs vassiliou, you and your team have done a good job, but there is room for improvement, and we have succeeded. we have achieved that is ensured that all patients now know they have rights in the european union like everyone else. they can move, as is the case for every worker, every student, and for goods and services and so on. patients should also have rights in the single market. that is what this legislation says, and that is why we welcome it wholeheartedly. but we also need to highlight what the particularly good parts of it are. the really good parts are, for example, that patients can be generous for outpatient care. but we also say that the member states should retain responsibility for their health systems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the healthcare system is not overly restrictive. we do not want to take away this authority and competence from the member states, nor do we want to drain them of their blood. it is therefore right that there should be prior authorization for specific types of treatment. this is also fully supported by my group. i shall come back to it at the end. it is a good approach, also in the report as a whole. what i personally welcome is that there are finally reference networks. how long have we been calling for the european union to be clear about what is best practice? where are treatments best done, where are they most successful? which team in which hospital in which member state has news? that's a coincidence these days. a small part of the scientific world may know this, but not every established doctor. the fact that we can improve this with reference networks is a great success. the information points that enable every patient in every member state to go, call and ask: what are my rights? and he hears in his own language what his rights are, and if he has a problem, he gets an answer. that's a good thing. i should like to conclude by mentioning the points which the majority of my group regrets. for the vast majority of my group, these are two points which will be essential for us and for our voting behaviour today. one is that we want a double legal basis. we need the health article, article 152, to make sure that the message we send to the world is this: it's about health policy as much as it is about freedom of movement. we need that, and that is a condition for us. in addition, we believe that the prior authorisation defined in article 8 (3) is not well defined. if we do not get an improvement there with the amendments we have before us, my group will unfortunately not be able to vote in favour of this report today, which i regret personally, but perhaps if we do not do well enough today, it will give us an incentive to do better at second reading.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have received a clear mandate from the european court of justice, which has established that patients have a right to reimbursement of the cost of treatment abroad. in this sense, mrs vassiliou, the commission's proposal is excellent. we must defend it. i regret what has happened to this directive in the past few weeks in this house. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. there are some amendments which, as someone who grew up in the former gdr, are very cold to me. it is about 'member states can take appropriate measures to curb patient flows'. whose children of the spirit are you walking around here? they're obviously going to build new iron curtains. it is all the more remarkable that such proposals come from the greens. it is about social europe. we talk about this a lot these days - the social democrats in particular like to do that. we have an opportunity this afternoon to pass this test and make it clear whether we are concerned with the rights of patients or whether we are looking through the lens of national health bureaucracies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not in agreement with the previous speaker. the commission proposal does not provide legal certainty for patients seeking treatment abroad. it does not remove the grey areas of regulation no 883 on social security schemes. only a clear system of prior authorization in cases of high cost of treatment would guarantee the patient reimbursement. the directive also remains unclear as regards the legal basis - this has already been clearly mentioned by colleagues - in other words as regards the division of competences between member states and at european level. the health systems of the member states are systems of solidarity, guaranteeing equal access for all, regardless of their wallets and place of residence. eu legislation must not jeopardise these systems of solidarity. the commission proposal is also inadequate here, and that is why our amendments must be accepted so that we can agree to it.
, president of the council. commissioner, members, madam president, rare diseases are dangerous and very complex diseases which are life threatening or are chronically disabling. despite their low prevalence, the number of patients in the eu with these diseases is relatively high and therefore joint action at eu level is needed. these are also the reasons why the field of rare diseases is also one of the priorities of the eu health strategy. the czech presidency believes that the adoption of the draft council recommendation on european action in the field of rare diseases will bring about a significant shift and improvement in the diagnosis of rare diseases, which is currently problematic due to the nature of rare diseases. it will also improve the conditions for the much-needed exchange of knowledge and experience in this field. for these reasons too, the czech presidency proactively engaged in the discussion of the proposal, building on the work of the french presidency and the discussions at the epsco council in december 2008. i believe that the european parliament and the council share the same view on this matter. this initiative is needed because it should improve the current situation of millions of patients suffering from these diseases and lead to an increase in their chances of obtaining adequate care and available information. this should lead, for example, to the establishment of a common definition of a rare disease, the further development of eu activities based on the orphanet network, the coordination of european research, including cooperation with third countries, the establishment and support of centres of expertise and the development of european reference networks for rare diseases. the council also recognises the key role that independent patient organisations play in the development and implementation of national policies on rare diseases. the czech presidency is currently finalising the discussion of the draft recommendation in the council's working bodies and will seek its adoption by the epsco council in june this year. however, given the importance of the issue, the council decided to consult the european parliament again, whose opinion it will carefully consider. in conclusion, let me once again thank everyone who took part in the preparation of the ep report, and in particular the rapporteur, mr antonio trakatelis, for his work.
member of the commission. - the mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members who have taken part in the work of parliament on the proposal for a council recommendation in the field of rare diseases. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr antonio trakatelli, in particular, for his coordination of the discussions and, of course, for his report. rare diseases that affect only a very small number of people each, and which are mostly genetic diseases, can cause death or chronic disability. however, although the incidence of each rare disease may be very low, together these diseases affect around 6% of the total population of the european union at some point in their lives. this means that in the european union, between 29 and 36 million people are affected or will be affected by a rare disease. however, due to the rarity of each disease, it is not possible for each member state to have the necessary expertise to diagnose it and to treat patients. this is therefore a prime example in the health sector where europe can add particular value, and for this reason the commission has adopted the action strategy. the european strategy is complemented by the proposal for a council recommendation on action within the member states. the purpose of this draft recommendation is to help member states to tackle rare diseases more efficiently, effectively and globally. an important area of action is the pooling of expertise through the european reference networks. these networks can add value to the action of the member states in relation to rare diseases, but also in other cases. they can also facilitate the exchange of knowledge and expertise and, where necessary, guide patients on where to go when this expertise cannot reach them. the commission proposal for a directive on patients' rights in crossborder care includes specific provisions to support patient mobility and to provide a legal framework for european reference networks. there are many other ways in which european action can support member states in tackling rare diseases, such as by better identifying and recognising diseases, by supporting research into rare diseases, and by mechanisms such as the regulation of orphan medicines. i therefore thank parliament for its support for the wide range of issues covered by this report and look forward to your debate with great interest.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament has long been concerned about helping patients suffering from rare diseases. patients suffering from rare diseases - this has been said - need european support. national efforts are not enough here. because the diseases are so rare, there are not centres and experts in all european member states. for research -- this is a very important point -- you need a certain number of patients to be able to study the disease at all and develop new therapies. the same is true of the development of new medicines. françoise grossetête has referred to the orphan drugs regulation; this is very important. the commission's initiative, madam commissioner, is also a very important point. we in the epp group support you unitedly in this. we also support many of the improvements mr trakatellis has made to the report. but i regret to say on behalf of the epp group that an amendment in mr trakatellis' report turns this important objective, namely helping patients, into the opposite direction. amendment no 15 says that genetic diseases should be prevented and eradicated, inter alia, by genetic counselling and by selecting embryos. this formulation has alarmed many people - not only ethicists and representatives of people with disabilities, but also scientists. the european society of human genetics is calling on us to reject amendment no 15. it draws comparisons with eugenics in the first half of the last century. politics should not exert pressure. genetic counselling should not be dominated by a political objective either. we should therefore reject amendment no 15. we should vote for the report if amendment no 15 is rejected, because then it is a good report. otherwise, he's going to be very problematic. we should help people who suffer from rare diseases and not make them feel that they are superfluous!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are very clear about supporting people with rare diseases. but amendment no 15 is completely unacceptable from an ethical point of view. there must never again be a debate in europe about lives worth living and lives not worth living. there must be no political or social pressure in europe on parents to deliberately choose against a disabled child. the selection of embryos would be a major ethical breach. the amendment must therefore be rejected, and it is not enough to simply delete the word 'eliminate', which unfortunately is indeed a fascist phrase. because it would still be a case of selection of embryos. it would be intolerable if this amendment, which speaks of the selection of embryos, were to become the stepping stone for a new ethic in europe. we must be very firm in our opposition to genetic discrimination. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we want to achieve the best possible health care in europe together. in particular, in rural areas close to the borders of the european union, such as my home in the greater region between germany, belgium, luxembourg and france, the promotion of patient mobility, as just discussed, is a particularly important building block for improving and increasing the efficiency of health care. but we must respect and uphold the ethical standards of the member states in everything we do. this is true of dna analysis as much as it is of artificial insemination, and it is also true of the rare diseases dealt with in the trakatellis report. rare diseases need a stronger policy framework for improved research and treatment, as companies invest primarily in large markets. the fight for human health must not be based on the elimination of rare diseases by selecting embryos, for example. this is about healing. the report is a good one, but it is being taken in a totally wrong direction, which is also morally dangerous. the main emphasis in amendment no 15 is not on healing but on selection. but who is to decide what life is worth living? do we think prevention is preventing life? i don't think it is. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the use of such unbiased terms as "elimination" and "selection of healthy embryos" in official european documents is shocking to me and contradicts our stated aim of recognising and integrating people with disabilities and illnesses into our society. i urge the house to vote against amendment no 15, so that the trakatellis report, which is otherwise so good, can also get a good majority.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the written declaration 0001/2009 was adopted by the required majority. i would like to thank all the members for this on behalf of all the authors of the written statement. this has nothing to do with the votes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sure we can continue this discussion. the motion by mr cohn-bendit has been tabled and many comments have been made. i would ask that we concentrate on what we are voting on, namely the report by mr casaca. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there's no money for the fund. that is the crucial point and i ask that we vote on it.
mr president, given the hundreds of votes we have now, perhaps you can only say 'accepted' or 'rejected' and avoid reading the individual figures.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we had a large majority in favour of amendment no 81. then amendment no 12 is obsolete. i ask you to confirm this once more.
mr president, with the utmost respect, i believe you would gain a lot of popularity, and it would be received with a lot of admiration, if you could speed up the voting procedure. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the trakatellis report because of the scandalous amendment no 15, which confuses the cure of disease with the killing of unborn human beings and smells of eugenics. we have to be clear about this: the right to life is a human right from the time of the fusion of the egg and the sperm to natural death, and this right to life is radically called into question here. an unborn human being should no longer have the right to life just because he is sick. it's the opposite of medicine, it's killing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the discharge for the commission in the discharge vote for the first time since i have been a member of this house and i would like to explain my reasons: i am mainly concerned with the way in which the european commission has handled the accessions of the two new countries, romania and bulgaria. we are faced with a whole range of problems in romania and bulgaria, with a high level of corruption, with a lot of money, with a lot of european money that has disappeared. the european commission only started to freeze these funds in 2008. we lost a lot of money in 2007 and now we are dealing with control systems that are either not in place or are not working properly. in romania we are faced with a high level of corruption and with problems in the judiciary. all of this is due to the pre-entry process. i am trying to send a signal to the european commission that it must do things differently in future accessions and also to tell it that if it has already been observed in other countries, it could certainly be more successful if it so wishes. i would ask the commission to help the two countries to establish financial control systems that deserve the name and to help to eliminate the systemic weaknesses in these two countries. otherwise we have a permanent problem here and a permanent child of concern for the whole of europe.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today on the report by mr casaca on the discharge to be given to the european parliament in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2007. the report also dealt with the european parliament's pension fund. the european parliament's pension fund is a voluntary pension scheme. the pension fund has now run into payment difficulties and a deficit has been created. the fdp in the european parliament is opposed to the compensation of the deficit from taxation. it is irresponsible to make the european taxpayer pay for these losses. such plans must be prevented. the fdp in the european parliament votes against the discharge of the european parliament's budget. the possibility of offsetting the deficit with taxpayers' money is not completely excluded.
in writing. - the report of the committee on transport does not take sufficient account of the real interests of rail transport as a whole in the better use of existing capacity. infrastructure managers should be required to reserve capacity for occasional services in the annual network timetable. this ex ante obligation does not give the infrastructure managers any flexibility to decide on such a measure in a timely manner. the commission's original proposal was even tightened up, as the reserve capacity must guarantee sufficient quality for international facilitated freight routes. the volume of short-term track applications by railway undertakings actually used cannot be estimated from a planning perspective. these capacities are removed from the timetable-making process in advance, with the consequence that subsequent other route requests cannot be met. if the already scarce network capacity is not used by the freight transport companies, it is finally destroyed to the detriment of all users. this would achieve the exact opposite of the actual objective of better use of existing capacity. in order to limit the negative impact on passenger traffic and on short-term freight traffic, it is necessary to provide for rules which leave it to the infrastructure managers to decide whether such a measure is appropriate, taking into account the interests of rail passenger transport, or how the needs of rail freight transport can be better addressed.
in writing. - i voted for the directive on patients' rights in crossborder healthcare, as it brings more legal certainty for patients. particularly for the border areas of the european union, such as my home in the greater germany region, belgium, luxembourg, france or for rural regions with a medical shortage, the promotion of patient mobility is an important building block for improving and increasing efficiency in health care. the german healthcare sector will benefit from cross-border patient mobility as patients from other eu countries make greater use of our high-quality medical services, for example in rehabilitation. the member states' sovereignty must be maintained. the member states are responsible for the provision of medical care and the organisation of their health systems. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the directive is intended to cover only those areas which concern the cross-border mobility of patients. our high quality and safety standards in germany must be maintained. ethical standards that member states adhere to for good reasons, such as in artificial insemination, dna analysis or assisted suicide, must not be called into question.
in writing. - the explicit demand in amendment no 15 for the eradication of rare hereditary diseases by genetic counselling of parents who are carriers of the disease and the selection of healthy embryos by pre-implantation diagnosis (pid) is not only contrary to the law in force in germany. in the particular context of german history, it seems in principle to be intolerable and intolerable to demand or recommend the elimination and selection of potentially disabled people, even if they are not yet born. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposed supplementary proposal replaces the promotion of the therapeutic treatment of rare diseases with the aim of preventing the birth of sick people. this is not in keeping with the spirit and content of european and international human rights declarations. the real aim of a convincing european policy should be to help people who are affected or threatened by disease, rather than selecting them early on on the basis of quality criteria. the report and the individual amendments, in particular amendment no 15, do not reflect my fundamental christian values. that is why i voted against the report.
mr vice-premier and representative of the presidency of the european union, mr peter nečas, mr olli rehn, commissioner, rapporteurs and committee chairmen, ladies and gentlemen! today we have the pleasure of signing together two important legislative packages, the climate and energy package and the package for an integrated maritime policy for the european union. this is the culmination of the determined work we have done together with the council and the commission. the adoption of these two legislative proposals demonstrates the european union's ability to act decisively to tackle together the challenges in the key areas of sustainable development, environmental protection and maritime safety. this public signing will help to highlight the importance of european legislation for european citizens. the climate and energy package has laid the foundations for the european union to achieve its climate goals by 2020 and to continue to play a leading role in the fight against climate change. the climate package includes important legislative frameworks that contribute, for example, to improving the emissions trading system or to member states' efforts to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. the rapporteurs avril doyle and satu hassi are here; i had assumed that, anyway. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. this package gives the european union the necessary credibility in the run-up to the international conference in copenhagen in december this year and in the negotiations for a comprehensive and binding agreement. as regards maritime transport, parliament and the council have managed to reach agreement on the eight dossiers in the course of the conciliation procedure. this is the result of intensive work that has lasted more than three years. this outcome also demonstrates the european parliament's strong push to prevent future maritime disasters, such as the 1999 "erika" accident and the 2002 "prestige" accident, by improving maritime safety. today we can see that many of the proposals of the temporary committee set up by the european parliament to improve safety at sea have become law. these provisions will improve the control and inspection of ships, maritime traffic monitoring and the insurance of shipowners, introduce compulsory insurance and strengthen the rules on investigation and liability in the event of accidents. i am glad that the rapporteur, mrs avril doyle, is joining us now. in conclusion, may i express my sincere thanks to the czech presidency of the council, to the commission and to the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism, and in particular to their chairmen and rapporteurs, who have all worked intensively on these important legislative acts. i would like to thank you in particular, ladies and gentlemen, for being here today to sign these important pieces of legislation. i am particularly pleased that two group chairmen are joining us at this lunchtime. in that sense, thank you very much. i would ask the president-in-office to speak to us now.
the president-in-office of the council. − mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you for inviting me to meet you on the european parliament's premises to celebrate the signing of the climate, energy and maritime package, two key measures agreed by the member states of the european union, this parliament and other partners with the help of the european commission. let me begin by saying a few words on behalf of the european council on the climate and energy package. the package confirms the european union's global leadership in the fight against climate change, while respecting the real capabilities and economic conditions of each member state. the climate and energy package has considerable symbolic value, as it demonstrates that representatives of half a billion citizens, 500 million citizens, can agree on very precise procedures, strategies and targets for such an important and sensitive agenda in today's economically unfavourable times. it also has the value of setting a positive example for our partners in the world. i would like to thank in particular all four rapporteurs and the whole parliament for their active and positive contribution, the european commission for its preparation and support throughout the approval process and the french presidency for its extraordinary commitment to the preparation, negotiation and creation of this package of precise measures. the package paves the way for us europeans to negotiate a global agreement on a strategy to combat climate change, which should be concluded this december at the conference of the parties in copenhagen. the european union is a leader in climate protection and this long-standing priority should not be wasted but transformed into an additional quality. now, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words about the importance of the third maritime security package, which is another, no less important, result of the cooperation between the council and the european parliament. when the tanker erika, with 20,000 tonnes of oil on board, broke in half off the coast of brittany, france, in 1999, causing untold environmental damage, and when some 120 tonnes of oil were spilled from the tanker prestige off the coast of galicia, spain, three years later, the european public was deeply concerned. we all recall the tragic images from the media of thousands of volunteers on the coast of the affected areas, deployed to clean up the damage, watching helplessly as birds and other fauna and flora die in the black flood. it was clear that everything possible had to be done to prevent similar catastrophes from happening again. it was clear that we had to work together. it was clear that the european union had to send a signal that ships in distress, without insurance, not complying with the basic safety rules, had no place on european shores. in response, in november 2005 the european commission presented a set of eight ambitious legislative proposals, the so-called third maritime safety package. the package will bring tangible results for europe in the form of better prevention of maritime accidents, more frequent inspections and a clear division of responsibilities towards ship operators. the results of this european legislation, apart from the incalculable impact on the environment, which is the capital of us all, will be appreciated not only by citizens and businesses in the maritime states, as it might seem, but also by export-oriented landlocked states such as my country, where a large part of production is shipped out of europe by sea. inland, too, there is a vital interest in ensuring that no more erika or prestige tankers are sailing off european coasts and that maritime transport is carried out efficiently, safely and in an environmentally sound manner. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by taking this opportunity to thank the rapporteurs of the european parliament, the french presidency and the commission for the hard work they have put into the maritime package, without whose efforts and commitment this success with its clear benefits for the european public, business and the environment would not have been possible.
thank you, minister. i would ask you and commissioner rehn and the rapporteurs to come to the table where minister nečas and i will be signing the acts in your presence. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the conclusions of the g20 summit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the g20 is the right development. the g8 must be replaced by the g20. we'd have one less summit. the europeans have failed. the european union of 27 member states is the right place to organise a new financial market order. so far we have largely words, but no clear decisions: drying up tax havens, controlling hedge funds, ending fraudulent financial products. there's been a lot of talk about it. if the europeans had gone to london with a decision, who could have resisted? i think it is, as my colleague mrs lucas has said, despairing that the london summit has simply postponed the climate crisis and the energy security crisis. this is not only causing great damage to the climate and the security of energy supplies, but also the loss of thousands of new jobs.
the debate is closed. the vote on any motions for resolutions will take place at the next partsession. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
we will then move on to the joint debate on the western balkans, namely the report by mrs ibrisagic on the consolidation of stability and prosperity in the western balkans [2008/2200{{ini) ]-{a6-0212/2009) and the council and commission statements on the situation in bosnia and herzegovina.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! in the autumn of last year we all hoped that after the so-called prud's agreement between the representatives of the three main parties in bosnia-herzegovina on joint political steps in many political fields, something would really change in political life. but where are we today? they were mostly empty promises that vanished on closer inspection. the ethnic divide in bosnia and herzegovina has deepened. the suspicion has grown. people are being manipulated by irresponsible policies based on purely ethnic criteria, instead of tackling the real problems. all the people in bosnia and herzegovina need good educational opportunities, all the people need a good judicial system, they need jobs, in short, they need hope for a better future. the eu has been helping this country for years with a lot of financial resources, with manpower, but of course there must also be state administrative structures that can absorb and implement them. i would like to make three points. the question of state ownership must be resolved. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is able to fulfil its obligations under the treaty. only the whole of bosnia and herzegovina can join the eu. the road map for visa exemption needs to be worked out. citizens want to be able to move freely, just like their politicians. so let the politicians make sure that the green light is given at the end of this year. all citizens need a functioning judicial system, not one that judges some people in one way and others in another. frustration is spreading everywhere. it is urgent that civil society should be more vocal in all areas to remind politicians of their real responsibilities. but it's very hard to get out of cover because the web of party politics is all over the country. the few jobs that may be offered depend on the goodwill of the parties. we wish the high representative every success in breaking the gordian knot of passivity, laissez-faire and laissez-tout among politicians, and in bringing peace and stability to the country, and in making the future of the people brighter than it is now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank commissioner rehn for giving us another overview of the western balkans today. i have just returned from macedonia and kosovo and i would like to make three points. the first is the division of the european union. if this is retained in the common foreign and security policy, we shall not achieve stability and the overcoming of ethnic frontiers in the balkans. the second is that the strategy of the cdu - the german conservatives - has hit the balkans like a bomb, so to speak, because it takes away the credibility of the european perspective, and if the european election campaign is conducted in this way, then there will be conflicts in the balkans again. the third is - and this is why we should act now, not only to maintain the perspective but also to make it tangible: greece must lift the blockade with regard to macedonia's membership of nato, and we must unanimously recognise the independence of kosovo, otherwise our eulex mission will be damaged.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the existence of thousands of nuclear weapons is the most dangerous legacy of the cold war. these are not my words, but they are excerpts from the speech of president obama, who recently spoke in prague about the greatest threat we face. no other issue is as central to security in the 21st century as this. we have heard similar words in recent years, for example from u.s. strategists kissinger and sam nunn, who have outlined concrete ways to achieve a world without nuclear weapons. senior european politicians have joined in, and the un secretary-general has also presented a five-point disarmament plan. never have there been better times to talk about nuclear disarmament than now. in recent years, we remember only regressions. the negotiations at the 2005 npt review conference were a disaster. we must not let this happen again next year. we europeans must now show that we are serious about disarmament. if the eu is moving forward, it can set the standard, and so it is completely incomprehensible to me why the majority of this house does not want to support these ambitious ambitions - the reduction of weapons of mass destruction. the large number of amendments tabled by the conservative groups in the committee on foreign affairs has turned my report, which was intended to talk about disarmament and make a recommendation to the council, upside down, and has become a ragtag document. we have a responsibility as a parliament to take a stand now, and we cannot delegate that to the next few years or to other parliaments. we are campaigning for support for the nuclear weapons convention and the hiroshima-nagasaki pact because disarmament is possible. it's not some distant, stupid illusion. we can do it if we push. the documents we want are not contrary to the npt, but fill a gap in the npt and therefore strengthen it. we need a clear political statement. and that is my appeal to all the groups for the vote tomorrow: to reconsider today what the right course is. i know that the npt also includes civilian elements, but we are not talking about the renaissance of civilian nuclear energy today, but about nuclear disarmament. and i also say, as the president of the iranian delegation and as a spokeswoman for foreign policy, that whoever has not learned from the iranian crisis of recent years, which has brought us into the danger of military escalation often enough, that the civil use of nuclear energy is never separated from a military abuse and proliferation, has not understood the whole foreign policy of recent years, the dangers and our challenge to disarm nuclear. we all know that our goal cannot be achieved overnight. but we have to start. it is not possible that we have been calling for decades for the americans to disarm from nuclear weapons - here in complete unanimity - and now that obama says he is ready to do that, medvedev says he is ready to do that - that a conservative majority in this parliament refuses to follow that path. i would therefore like to make a very serious appeal - that was my mandate from the committee on foreign affairs - not to confuse the question of the civilian use of nuclear energy with a revival of the possibilities of nuclear disarmament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear industry is not left behind. i would ask those who vote against the amendments tabled by the pse and us tomorrow to explain to their voters during the election campaign why they think nuclear weapons are good for europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the program that got iraq, iran, north korea, nuclear technology was called "atoms for peace". east and west have participated in this programme. we saw where it led in iraq. there was a terrible war there, with the justification of nuclear armaments based on originally civil technology. where it will end in iran, i don't want to conjure today. korea has said goodbye to the non-proliferation community. in the same week that north korea aggressively announced its new plans and the iaea was finally kicked out of the country, the iaea announced that it would be conducting new negotiations with 30 to 50 developing countries on civilian armament - it's called equipment, i call it armament. it's a deadly cycle. if we do not stop the civil build-up of weapons, we shall not be able to control the spread of nuclear technology, including military technology.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the time has come to put an end to nuclear weapons in this world and to implement the disarmament obligations of the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, in particular article 6. the new us president barack obama has declared that he wants nuclear disarmament. the european union's governments are now called upon to act and to disarm in concrete terms. this means, in concrete terms, no modernization of british and french nuclear weapons, but disarmament. that means that germany's nuclear participation will be terminated. and that means the withdrawal of american nuclear weapons from europe, for example from büchel in rhineland-palatinate. the majority of the european parliament, which has so far been the committee on foreign affairs, should not waste time voting on waxy reports, but leave the concrete disarmament demands originally contained in the report. i have the impression that the epp group is still living in the past. what is needed is a strengthening of the disarmament component of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, and we should decide on that tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. when the soviet union collapsed, many thought that this would also be the end of the nuclear terror. but this global nuclear terror of the past has re-emerged on a regional level - i'll just mention iran, north korea, india and pakistan. the npt has not prevented this either. the real danger is that nuclear weapons could be seized by terrorists or criminals or by irresponsible regimes. the initiative of kissinger and shultz and also the speech of obama in prague have now brought new momentum to this matter. this is extremely important. it is clear that the nuclear powers are now ready to reduce their arsenals, and this is the new thing in president obama's statement. the important thing is that europe speaks with one voice now, that europe, its nuclear powers, but also the others speak with one voice. the first step in this direction is the fact that mr solana is negotiating with iran for all european countries and also for countries beyond europe. i think we're going to have to build on that. we cannot expect miracles to happen quickly on this road, as mrs beer does. but if there is a chance today that we can actually reduce this threat step by step, then we must also take that chance.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is not an ideological debate we are having here. we were in the aftermath of the american-led military interventions in iraq, afghanistan and other regions, in a time of growing crises and the prospect of even talking about nuclear disarmament was hardly dreamed of or hoped for. now is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. i don't know how far the window of time is. but it is also our duty to enable the generations to come to live in a world of peace. the conditions for success in the areas just mentioned by commissioner olli rehn include that we do not accept double standards within the eu. this means that we as europeans are also obliged to restart nuclear disarmament. i would like to remind you of our discussion last december when javier solana was here and we discussed the revision of the security strategy. he said that the greatest danger - and this was shared here in the house - was the danger of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. that is why i am appealing to you again. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of nuclear safety. i would like to ask you to reconsider your position on this, because if the epp motion is adopted, my group will not be able to vote in favour of this report. finally, i would like to thank the international organizations such as mayors for peace, ippnw and ican. ican has been around for a long time before obama as an international campaign to ban nuclear weapons.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. girls and women with disabilities experience multiple discrimination, and disability clearly has gender dimensions. we need to make disabled women and girls more visible and we need to put them in the spotlight, especially at eu level. the ep made some very important points clear to me with the resolution on the situation of women with disabilities adopted in 2007. however, the specific situation of women and girls must also be fully taken into account in the implementation of the un convention. unfortunately, only four eu member states have ratified the convention and the protocol so far. we need gender mainstreaming in eu disability policy, especially in access to work and integration in the workplace. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the biggest problem is violence. we've got to give her the red card. girls and women with disabilities are at a much higher risk of violence, including sexual violence, both at home and abroad. often their right to sexuality and motherhood is restricted, or forced abortions and sterilizations are practiced. member states should therefore adopt rules to protect against violence and to better support victims. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the convention guarantees disabled people the right to protection and recognition of their human values and to full participation in society at international level. it is all the more important that the council deposits the instrument of ratification with the un by this year's international day of persons with disabilities at the latest. at the same time, we call on all member states to ratify the optional protocol and to give the un convention an international complaints body. i can only report from my own country on the importance of this. to this day, disabled people are denied equal access to education. only 15% of disabled children are integrated into the school system. in my country, disabled access requests are circumvented by translation tricks. we must therefore protest against this continuing and ensure full participation in society for disabled people in all eu member states in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to make a few words of caution here in view of the fact that a compromise was reached very quickly - surprisingly quickly. we have moved so quickly that we would have adopted this directive almost without debate here tonight. that is probably one of the reasons why so few colleagues have been put on the speakers list. i would remind you that we are extending the scope of the directive at a time when there is little experience of implementation of the existing directive. i would also like to remind you that we have discussed the scope of the directive in parliament itself and that we wanted to extend it to all products. i think that's a dead end. it is not acceptable and does not make sense to subject all products produced in the eu to an environmental accuracy check, and it is regrettable - at least from my point of view - that this option is now being included in the text for 2012. i would remind you that we must be careful not to turn the european commission into a product planning authority. politicians and administrators, even after the experience of the financial and economic crisis, do not know better how to produce products and what engineers could possibly do better. finally, i would also like to remind you that the growing complexity of this product legislation is overwhelming small and mediumsized enterprises. many of these requirements are already hardly met by these companies today, and we are adding something to them today that i feel we have not given enough thought to the practical implications.
the commission has adopted a communication on the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i thank the rapporteur, mrs neris, for her efforts in working on such a comprehensive and technically complex proposal. this is a legislative procedure which has presented us all with great challenges, but we must be clear that we are dealing with the future of an extremely important sector. construction products alone already account for 3% of european gdp and, if construction is included, the construction sector accounts for 10% of total economic output within the european union. it is therefore clear that efforts to improve competitiveness in this sector have become particularly important, especially in the current crisis. the commission's proposal is intended to provide a solid basis for the consolidation of the internal market in construction products. only then can we ensure the growth and jobs needed beyond the recovery phase. in order to achieve this objective, the existing construction products directive had to be brought into line with the principles of better regulation. what we were trying to do was this: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. i was concerned about avoiding any unnecessary additional burden on businesses, especially the smallest ones. it is therefore important to me that no new administrative or audit rules are introduced, which is of central importance for the smallest local companies in particular. in line with the principles of the small business act, which parliament has only recently given a very warm welcome here, the commission proposal also provides simplified procedures for micro-enterprises for products which do not raise serious safety concerns. i do not want this approach to be changed - it is a key point of the proposal. in practice, for several families of construction products - for example, windows, interior doors or flooring - the presence of very small manufacturers is extremely important for the functioning of the market and in the interest of consumers. the potential of these small manufacturers must be used efficiently for the european construction sector. i do not share the view that it is necessary to require a declaration of dangerous substances which goes beyond the rules we have already established in the reach regulation. i can assure you in all seriousness that the rules made under reach cover everything. there is nothing we need to do in the construction sector. i really wonder what the point is in making comprehensive, integrated chemical legislation if we then want to introduce new and different regulations for individual products. the commission will not agree to this. the commission has also proposed the introduction of a european safety certificate for the use of the ce marking and the abolition of national markings. let me be clear . national labels, where they are required, add to the requirements of harmonised european standards for the testing of construction products, but they do not add the slightest value in terms of content. it is just more bureaucracy and more burden on the companies involved. this is in direct contradiction to the main objective of the proposal. the situation in the construction sector is different from that of the traditional areas of our so-called 'new approach' legislation, which was recently the subject of the single market package. we cannot easily transfer the solutions implemented in the other sectors of the 'new approach' legislation to the construction industry, because it is structured in a completely different way and works with completely different materials. i have not mentioned all the amendments for obvious reasons. the commission's position on all other amendments proposed by parliament will be submitted in writing to parliament's services. the proposal for a regulation on construction products is a very important proposal for me. i think that the debate today is important and i share the rapporteur's view that with a little more time we still have a good chance of reaching a common outcome and a good compromise.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur and, above all, my colleague, mrs zita pleštinská, and to continue where mrs fourtou has just left off. we have completed the package of goods a year ago and had to settle the difficult question of ce marking. the fact that the socialist group is now coming up with the idea of incorporating this compromise into this directive has something to do, mr verheugen, with the fact that the study you commissioned may not yet have been given a lasting voice in all parts of the house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. perhaps this will also provide some information for tomorrow's vote, especially since the ce marking in this directive - unlike the packaging - is not about consumer-relevant information, but only about product characteristics, which really have a different objective in each case. secondly, the construction products regulation has been quite successful in bringing about a considerable advance in the completion of the internal market, because on the one hand we have succeeded in simplifying the laws for small and mediumsized enterprises in many places and on the other hand we have also provided for the facilities for micro-enterprises which were announced in the small business act and which we have been urged and asked for in various places. i expressly endorse the points made earlier with regard to the national standards institutes. we need a much stronger european single market here. it must be possible for a manufacturer of a product from spain to also register that product in germany or sweden and have it standardised by a standardisation body there, rather than having to go through the national approval process with the national body. secondly, commissioner, i very much welcome what you have said on the regulation of chemicals. we have worked hard to bring about the reach regulation and we should not now add new rules to every other legislative proposal concerning chemically related materials. we have to go back to two points for the second reading. the first is the question of the rules on product labelling. there is probably more to go into it for the user to really have an effective overview, and secondly we should prevent double regulation. i think that annex 6 is too broad. the low-voltage and machinery directives already cover many of these points. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have a good report. the first reading of the regulation on animal by-products was carried out by consensus. i would like to thank the french and czech presidencies, the commission and the rapporteurs of the various political groups. the report was produced in a spirit of trust and cooperation and was completed quickly, although - and this is how it should be seen - the present report has substantially changed the commission's proposal, less in content and more in outline. many details have been rearranged. the new proposal was necessary because of certain shortcomings in the application of the 2002 regulation, which led to problems in practice. while the 2002 regulation contained animal diseases such as bse, dioxin contamination and the spread of other animal diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease and swine fever, it was essential to define the issues of liability, traceability and the end point of a slaughter by-product in order to make further progress in this area. it was also necessary to remove the legal uncertainty regarding the scope of the wildlife by-products regulation. as a logical consequence of the previous regulations on hygiene, the entrepreneur will be responsible for his product in future. i have said this in the other regulations. however, this must not lead to a reduction in official controls. the new regulation is intended to provide greater security for citizens and not merely to shift responsibility. it is therefore important that undertakings handling by-products are subject to authorisation. the companies which must be approved are clearly defined. the fact that there is a registration form in addition to the form of approval is due to the desire to reduce bureaucracy. we will certainly have to examine in detail in future whether the registration procedure ensures a sufficient level of security. i also think that the uncertainties that have been created by the rules on wild game by-products have been removed. now, it's clear that good hunting practice is crucial. there's nothing to collect in the woods. i also think that we have met the wishes of many members to provide adequate food for the scavengers in certain regions. a major advance has been made in the definition of the endpoint as a by-product. this will eliminate legal uncertainty and correct many shortcomings and difficulties. we will have to examine whether the european commission's definition of the endpoint meets the criteria just mentioned, namely legal certainty. i am aware, of course, that it may differ from product to product and that is why flexibility is necessary, but i would also say, commissioner, that transparency is also necessary so that the user can see this. that brings us to the critical point. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer this question. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. we'll have to check this out. we know that we as members of parliament have the opportunity to cooperate, but we also know from experience that we are not in a position to monitor or review all the procedures of comitology. i therefore welcome the commission's statement that it would like to present its proposals to the environment committee before adoption. this is a good approach because there are many forms of comitology. i think we're on the right track here. i shall end by making a few comments on other subjects.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today parliament will be asked to vote on a common position based on the commission's proposal for a new regulation on animal by-products. this is the moment when i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work which has made it possible to reach this common position, and for his knowledge of the rules in the veterinary field which has enabled him to reach a positive and shared result. my colleague, mrs vassiliou, apologizes for not being present in person at this debate, but she has asked to thank the rapporteur personally for all he has done and for the efforts he has made to achieve this. we are naturally grateful to the shadow rapporteurs who have followed this work constructively, as the rapporteur has emphasized in his speech, and so it has been possible, thanks to this cooperation, to incorporate into the common position the major concerns expressed by the committee on agriculture and rural development. like the rapporteur, i too want to thank the french presidency for working very hard, even though it knew that it would not be able to achieve the final result on its own, and the czech presidency for putting a lot of effort into securing a clear and coherent mandate for the negotiations with parliament. the commission therefore strongly supports the common position. this clarifies the relationship between health and environmental standards and thus contributes to the objectives of better regulation. the rules which parliament is about to vote on will allow for a wider use of animal by-products, which are currently excluded from any recovery, while ensuring adequate safety conditions. there will also be a reduction in administrative costs and this will allow operators to be more competitive. this will be essential to enable them to respond dynamically to the challenges of the future, whether they arise from imports from third countries or from new technological developments relating to the use of by-products. the new rules will also be fully consistent with the objective of protecting biodiversity and - most important of all - will maintain a high level of protection within the european union against risks to public and animal health.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank mr schnellhardt for his excellent report. after the numerous crises in recent years in relation to products of animal origin which pose a risk to human and animal health, a comprehensive legal regulation is essential. the current rules have to be revised. we must continue to ensure a high level of security. although we agree with the report in principle, i see some points which make me think. the regulation has been relaxed in many respects, thus allowing some flexibility in the trade in animal by-products. some examples: the use of certain category i material in petfood is authorised. category ii or iii materials, regardless of their risk, can be disposed of easily under official supervision at a low weekly waste rate. however, the risk of animal by-products of any category is only partly determined by the quantity. the commission is still the one to adopt the implementing regulation, and the draft regulation, like the previous one, contains many powers for the commission. this means that the commission can adopt comprehensive and fundamental rules on the handling of animal by-products in the comitology procedure. this means that parliament is, as is unfortunately often the case, outside.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has shown broad support for the common position on animal by-products, and this allows the commission to move on to the next stage. the commission will prepare the rules for implementing the new regulation in the light of your comments today, we will listen carefully to the experience of the operators, we will talk to our international partners and we will ensure that parliament is fully transparent throughout the process. i can therefore confirm to the rapporteur the commitment already made by the commission with regard to comitology and the optative provisions. as regards the question raised by mr doyle, i would like to say that the current regulation already recognises the particular nutritional needs of certain wild species and allows member states to use by-products for feeding to wild animals, provided that the health risks are adequately controlled. however, in the recent past it has been emphasised that the commission must step up its efforts to preserve biodiversity. the commission therefore agrees with the legislator's decision to extend the basis for feeding animal by-products to protected animal species in their natural habitat. while the current rules refer to vultures and eagles, the new regulation will also make it possible to find appropriate solutions for wolves and bears. on the basis of recent experience, we are also considering whether solutions beyond the current system of fixed points for feeding protected species with animal carcasses, in particular in the presence of extensive farming systems, are appropriate, provided that specific health standards are respected. the commission is ready to engage in dialogue with all interested parties on this matter.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. mr ulmer, i have of course heard the concern about the possible mixing of category i and ii which you have mentioned, and we have also heard this problem from practice at the end of the negotiations. i think you have to be a very criminal person to mix things up here. we shall check whether stricter regulation is necessary here. the aim of this new regulation was to ensure that slaughter by-products could be used in a variety of ways, and i can therefore say to mrs doyle that her concern is unjustified. everything is the same as before. we have even made it quite clear that the final destination of the by-products of slaughter is a completely different matter, and that the transition to the waste framework directive is clearly marked. i think we're on the right track here. i would also like to point out that this new regulation is of course intended to deal with the issue of the canned meat scandals. we are not 100% on track yet, but with the labelling and the guaranteed traceability, i think we are on the right track. we must now, of course, see what the commission will propose. it's not going to be easy for her, because we know the problem: blue chappi, nobody wants that. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products. but this leads to a change in the quality of the fertiliser, and i think we have made a good arrangement so that our smallholders, who love organic fertilisers, can also be provided with the same. so, on the whole, it is a good regulation. i am very pleased with the cooperation and i hope we will not have to make any further changes any time soon. the cooperation with the commission has been very pleasant. thank you very much for that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not it is 30 years ago, in the autumn of 1979, that this house first adopted an emergency resolution on afghanistan, drafted by otto von habsburg, whose staff i was then. the aim was to warn of the impending soviet invasion of afghanistan, which actually took place a few months later. since then, this country has had a terrible history of suffering, and we should ask ourselves: what is afghanistan? firstly, it is a very archaic tribal society in many ways, and it cannot be catapulted into the 21st century in one fell swoop. secondly, it is a country which is very much attached to its independence, which it has struggled to preserve against british and russian imperialism. thirdly, it is a country that has suffered a lot in the 20th century and, through a rather questionable intervention - i say this quite frankly - by western powers, it is now in a state of having a president who is not considered by many people there as their own. this is a very difficult mixed situation. i would like to make it clear that mr cappato knows that i am not one of those so-called realpolitikers, that i am uncompromising when it comes to human rights. we must be uncompromising in our opposition to this law and to the oppression of women. but we must also act in a way that is successful, so that it does not appear that this is a matter of foreign domination. that is why we must find partners in this multiethnic society in afghanistan and we must gradually build a modern society there. that means that we have to do a lot more work on a political concept for afghanistan than just a military response, as has been done so far. that's why the law needs a revision. we want to be absolutely uncompromising because we pay a lot for the country, we are present with troops. but we also have to do it in a way that involves the afghan people, involves their dignity, and that, of course, includes first and foremost -- whether it's appropriate or not -- the dignity of women.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not in the light of the signing of the shiite family law in afghanistan which disregards women, i call on the commission to make women's rights a central part of its strategy in afghanistan again. in november 2002 the social democratic group sent a delegation under my leadership to afghanistan to ensure that women were not excluded from the reconstruction of the country. we have had talks with president karzai, with many government officials, with women's and human rights organisations, and they have been very encouraging. a breakthrough towards greater security, stability and prosperity for women, even without the burqa, seemed within reach. healthcare, education, training and employment have been opened to women since the taliban rule. the highest infant mortality rate in the world seemed to be improving. our intervention included a 25% quota for women in the first newly elected parliament in the new constitution, and about four million refugees returned to their war-torn country. but unfortunately, little has happened in the last five years. warnings from women's rights organisations such as medica mondiale that the violence must be curbed seemed to have come to nothing, and in early april radical islamic taliban killed german-afghan women's rights activist sitara achikzai in kandahar. we've seen other women get shot, like the highest ranking police officer. we can't just stand by and watch. the civilian infrastructure is in great danger. we have to end this new shiite family law. the ep resolution must be crystal clear and signal that the law must be withdrawn. if this does not succeed, international support for afghanistan will also be at risk if women's rights are not respected. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of the taliban. this must be made crystal clear to mr karzai!
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. my group did not co-sign this resolution and we will only vote in favour if the amendments which i tabled with the author, anna gomes, on behalf of the pse and the european greens are adopted. what we are talking about here is the dispute over the mujahideen or mko. it is not a democratic opposition. i would like to make a few comments on this. the mko is a degenerate organization, comparable to a religious sect, which massively oppresses its own members, including in the camp. the members are forced to stay in this camp under mental and physical pressure. those who refuse are subjected to broken relationships, forced divorces, and child abductions, one of the most brutal forms of oppression. the mko has completely isolated all mko agents inside and outside the camp. all access to the international press or media has been blocked. all the interviews conducted by the us were conducted in the presence of mko cadres, which resulted in the persons not being able to talk about their real problems and concerns. in the past, the mko has handed over members from northern iraq to saddam hussein's henchmen, who were shamefully tortured and killed in camp abu greib. these are just a few examples and explanations of the common amendments which i would like to see supported. those who reject it - and i want to make this quite clear - and those who accept the text of the present resolution unchanged, agree that the mko can continue to pursue a policy of repression in a camp under its control. but they are also partly responsible for what the mko is already threatening today, namely that in the event that the camp is dissolved under international supervision, it will call on its members to self-immolate. that is the contrast we want to make clear here, and that is why i am calling for the amendments tabled by the pse and my group to be accepted.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to make two brief remarks: the translation may cause some irritation in the various languages. i would therefore like to note that the amendment to article 2 (2) (a) which reads 'except for wild game' must always be read in conjunction with paragraph (aa). that's the irritation gone.
i have to say, madam president, i have no reason to explain here how my group's voting lists are made. we have discussed this and we can certainly accept this proposal after re-examining it.
madam president, i would like to ask whether you have taken note of the fact that in article 6 the word 'central' before 'state' must be deleted so that the wording is consistent with the other texts.
in writing. − the regulation on statistics on plant protection products is part of the reorientation of european plant protection product policy, which also includes the authorisation regulation and the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides, which were successfully adopted earlier this year. the aim is to reduce as far as possible the adverse effects of plant protection products by reducing risks. in order to measure this we need indicators and in order to develop these indicators we need reliable data, obtained through statistics, which ensure comparability between member states. that is why i voted for the report. but we must not forget that only those who supply the data also distribute the products in accordance with the regulations. the recent news about the illegal trade in pesticides across europe shows that it needs to be targeted more. the same applies to imports of products from third countries. we need more controls here. our strict european approval process guarantees full protection of people and the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the maximum residue levels are not exceeded. the existing law provides a sufficient level of protection in this area. but it must be respected and controlled.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on friday 24 april 2009.
i am not going to go into detail. a few days ago, the european union celebrated the fifth anniversary of its greatest enlargement. on 1 may 2004, 75 million people from 10 countries in central and eastern europe and the mediterranean, namely estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, malta and cyprus, expressed their delight at becoming citizens of the european union. this enlargement was followed in 2007 by the accession of romania and bulgaria. it's one of the great developments of our time that this has been made possible. after 60 years of oppression of the peoples of central and eastern europe, the enlargement of the european union marked the historic completion of the reunification of our continent on the basis of the common values of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and human dignity. the european union has gained in strength, diversity and cultural richness in the process. enlargement has been and is an enrichment for each individual member state and for the european union as a whole. five years after this historic moment, enlargement is proving to be a great success for the european union. their importance in the daily lives of our citizens has continued to increase. the process of enlargement has helped to bring democracy and stability to our continent after the collapse of communism. enlargement has improved living standards in the new member states and has given a huge boost to the european economy as a whole, as the old member states also benefit from the new export and investment opportunities and a larger market. in general, the accession of 12 new countries has strengthened the european union's position in the world and its weight as both a political and an economic international actor. in the last five years since accession, we have succeeded in integrating the new members in the european parliament and in the other institutions of the european union. we have learned to approach each other and work together more closely. but a larger and more diverse european union requires closer cooperation and greater capacity to act. the lisbon treaty sets out the key reforms to institutionally adapt the european union to the effects of enlargement and to enable it to meet the challenges ahead. even if the debate on the ratification of the treaty of lisbon is not yet completed, we should be confident that we will have a positive outcome early next year, and we hope for a positive outcome next wednesday in the senate in the czech republic. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, we should be very happy to be the community we are today, and the berlin declaration of 25 march 2007 says so beautifully: 'we are united in our happiness. we have cause for joy and gratitude! now for a more disturbing development: i would like to express our deep concern at the tragic situation of the american-iranian journalist roxana saberi, who was sentenced to eight years in prison for allegedly spying for the united states and is currently being held in evin prison in tehran. on behalf of the european parliament, the president of the european council and the president of the united states of america, i would like to urge the iranian authorities to release roxana saberi immediately and unconditionally! (applause from the centre) the case of roxana saberi reflects the dramatic overall human rights situation in iran, which has deteriorated since 2005 especially in terms of civil and political rights despite iran's commitments to promote and protect human rights under the well-known existing international instruments. the condemnation of mrs saberi comes at a critical time: two months before the iranian presidential elections and only a short time after the efforts initiated by the united states and the european union to improve relations with iran. i am deeply concerned that mrs saberi could be used as a pawn in these ongoing political developments and i strongly condemn this apparently politically motivated move. i would like to assure the family of mrs saberi of our solidarity and reaffirm the european parliament's strong commitment to full respect for human rights and democracy in iran and throughout the world. (applause from the centre) i would add that we have learned that a young woman in iran, who is accused of having committed a crime as a minor, has now been killed. this is contrary to all the rules of international law and we are also raising our voices against this crime! (applause from the centre) in conclusion, i would like to inform you that after the terrible events of last week in appeldoorn, holland, i have expressed my deepest condolences on behalf of all of you to the dutch queen, the survivors and the dutch people, and that we stand in european solidarity with our dutch friends. that was some messages. we're going to start our normal work now.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 30 april 2009 in accordance with rule 132 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: wednesday: the gue/ngl group has asked for the joint debate on the reports by mr leinen, mr dehaene, mr brok, mr guy-quint and mr kaufmann on the treaty of lisbon to be taken off the agenda.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. last week slovenia stepped up its opposition to croatia's accession. i would like to find clear words for this conflict, because i do not think that this behaviour is appropriate and worthy of a member state of the european union. croatia is a candidate country and has shown a strong will to reform. although not all the criteria have been met, the direction is clear! slovenia must abandon its petty attitude so that a solution can be found quickly. the european union will develop further through the treaty of lisbon and its enlargement steps, and croatia will become a member!
you speak in a free parliament. in an unfree parliament you could not have made that speech! (applause from the centre)
i thank you very much, mr pannella. i remember well when we were elected in 1979 and you tabled thousands of amendments - at that time it was still on paper. but you left us once in the meantime, while i've been here all along. you were back in rome in the parliament.
if you would allow me this comment, i think she was, and is, a great lady. she was a prime minister who agreed that the legislation concerning the single market could be done by majority voting. so margaret thatcher agreed to majority voting in the council: this was a great decision.
i thank you very much, mr pannella. what you say does not contradict what i said. i have been convinced once again that you were not here in the european parliament from 1996 to 1999. you were elected, you said so, so that doesn't contradict what i said. i would like to express my respect for your work and your work in the european parliament.
thank you very much, neena gill. it was also the last time i chaired the debate on the one-minute speeches. i have always tried to get as many people as possible to speak. we have often been able to take the whole list into account - and this was the case today - because it is a privilege for members to be able to speak, and they always have the opportunity to do so on monday evening. i am therefore very grateful to you for what you have told us. that concludes this item.
the next item is the commission statement on the influenza epidemic.
the commission has already done so. thank you so much for coming here and for coming on such short notice. if we compare the situation with the time of bird flu, i am - even as an impatient member of parliament - very pleased with the response within the european union, within the who, but also within the member states. some colleagues have said that the information is not sufficient. i feel sufficiently informed in germany about how i should behave. i do not want to put everything on europe either. the member states are responsible for this information. we should also remind them from this point of view to fulfil their duty to inform. i also hear again and again that there are still some shortcomings, particularly in the disposal of vaccines in the member states. i would be very interested to know whether this is true, whether the member states really do not want to exchange vaccines and only store them for their territory or whether they have agreed to exchange vaccines. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter. i thank you for this quick and good work. i'm very happy for you.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the committee on women's rights has done a good job here in the area of social europe, and i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mrs estrela and mrs lulling, very warmly for this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, it is necessary to include fathers in the framework strategy for improving work-life balance. we do not want, as the commission says, 18 weeks of maternity leave, which is already a reality in almost all european countries except germany and malta. we want to go beyond that and ensure that we get started with the two fathers' weeks. it is also important to us that both directives provide equal rights for same-sex couples. this is important in the directive for the cooperating spouses and life partners. i also stress the fact that these safety systems must be compulsory, otherwise they will be subject to arbitrariness. i would like to return to the argument put forward by employers that this directive would put too much pressure on companies in crisis to extend maternity protection. this can't be happening! in germany we have a system whereby the costs are now reimbursed in a levy procedure - and this is 100%! i therefore ask the conservative group to show some insight and to join us in improving maternity protection. we want to send a clear signal to the people, namely to fathers and mothers, before the european elections, that social europe is not being abandoned in times of crisis, but that we are clearly in favour of investing in people, in future generations, in demographic change. and i ask commissioner špidla to look again at the question of the involvement of fathers and to fight with us in the council for progress in the protection of mothers and for a better reconciliation of family and work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the member states have the clear responsibility for health legislation. europe is setting minimum standards for maternal health. we have different regulations in the member states which cannot be compared. in some countries, maternity benefits are paid for by taxation. in other countries, such as germany, it is financed by the health insurance companies, and the companies bear a large part of the costs. both the duration and the financial compensation of maternity protection vary. in any event, the protection of the mother in the event of illness is also guaranteed beyond the time limits. you 're mixing things up here . maternity leave and parental leave are two different things. my question is: would germany, for example, be able to meet the requirements of the new directive in terms of maternity and parental leave combined? the extension of maternity leave, which focuses on the health of the mother, is not only beneficial for women, because companies will hire fewer women, because men do not have this disadvantage. the increase in the number of redundancy benefits will not help the jobseeker. we must also ensure that women are accepted in the labour market and can work on an equal footing. here, companies are called upon to help create a family-friendly working environment.
chairman of the ep delegation to the conciliation committee. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you know that the conciliation procedure on the working time directive has failed. rule 65 (5) of the rules of procedure provides that in this case the chair of parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee is to make a statement in plenary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. after several trilogues and three meetings of the conciliation committee, it was found at the last meeting, shortly after midnight and just before the deadline, that it was not possible to reach an agreement. the ep delegation had earlier voted against the commission's latest attempt at mediation by a clear majority of 15 votes in favour, none against and five abstentions. this proposal was not accepted as a basis for a genuine compromise. it was also rejected by the committee of the regions, which was sitting in the next room. by letter of 29 april 2009, the two co-chairs of the conciliation committee informed parliament and the council of ministers that it was not possible to reach agreement on a joint text within the time limit laid down in article 251 (5) of the ec treaty. i am very sorry that the two institutions have not been able to find common ground. but when looking at the three points that were still in dispute the opt-out of weekly working hours, the conditions of the standby service and the multiple contracts per employee , the differences in positions were so great that there was no way to reach an agreement that would still have been compatible with the european parliament's decision of 17 december 2008. the council has not moved an inch on the question of opt-out. the parliamentary side offered several compromises which would have allowed the employers' side a high degree of flexibility in working hours. the parliament's side had been very accommodating, particularly with regard to the conditions of the standby service. finally, the majority, nine member states, use opt-out only for the standby service. but a blocking minority in the council prevented any attempt to invoke the exception. not even a hint of an expiry of the opt-out was accepted. on call. the ecj has made it clear that on-call duty is working time. the council also called for the inactivity period to be considered as a rest period, not in whole or in part. it was also clear to the parliamentary delegation that on-call duty is required when continuing work is necessary. the council was not prepared to accept this restriction. what does that mean? the waiter who sits in the restaurant without guests spends an inactive standby, who is then, of course, evaluated differently this can't be! parliament, while being very flexible, also advocated that the maximum working time should be set at 48 hours per worker and not per contract. we have not even been able to agree on the principle of the principle of subsidiarity in a recital. the delegation of the european parliament was clear that no compromise is better than a bad compromise on the backs of the workers. the european parliament has put forward many proposals to the council which we felt reached the "pain threshold", but one group in the council showed no willingness to compromise. i also believe that at one point or another the commission could have put forward proposals which were a little more balanced between the council's and parliament's positions. during this parliamentary term, parliament adopted 389 acts by codecision, 24 of which were completed at third reading after successful mediation. this shows that there is a culture of cooperation between the institutions. for the first time since the entry into force of the amsterdam treaty, the conciliation committee has failed to reach agreement on the working time directive. i hope that the new commission will present a new proposal very quickly, which will then - i hope - lead to an agreement. "in particular, i would like to conclude by thanking the excellent work of the secretariat of the conciliation committee".
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, allow me to inform you, on behalf of the czech presidency, of the council's position on the conciliation procedure for the revision of the working time directive, which has now been concluded. as you are no doubt aware, the amendment of this directive was the subject of complex discussions in the council for four long years before the council finally reached its common position on its content in june last year, after very complicated negotiations. a qualified majority of member states agreed that the key point of contention, the so-called opt-out, would be retained in the directive for the future, but with firmly defined conditions that would make its application very restrictive. for example, the council wanted the maximum limit on the length of weekly working hours for opt-outs to be reduced from 78 hours to 60 or 65 hours, it proposed a ban on negotiating opt-outs when signing employment contracts, or limiting the period of consent given by employees to work in opt-out mode to one year. the council's aim was to limit the use of opt-outs in the member states, but above all to increase the protection of the employee who would opt-out. the council considered its draft directive to be balanced, enhancing the protection of workers, and hoped that it would be acceptable to parliament and that parliament would adopt it at second reading. the czech presidency was fully aware of the differences in the positions of the two institutions on the draft directive after the vote last december, but at the same time it did not see the conciliation procedure as a battle of prestige between the institutions, but instead advocated a pragmatic, non-ideological and realistic approach that would take into account the reality of the european labour market. it is an indisputable fact that opt-outs are now used in 15 of the 27 eu member states. since the czech republic took over the presidency of the council in january this year, we have been engaged in very intensive negotiations at all levels with the aim of finding a real space for a possible compromise with parliament. the first meeting of the member states on this subject took place in prague on 13 january. there have been at least eight rounds of informal trialogue and, very unusually, three rounds of the conciliation procedure itself. at this point, let me thank the commission, and in particular commissioner spidlov, for his expertise and constructive approach in seeking a possible compromise on the text of the directive. the council was willing to compromise, to discount the common position, and yet in the end, no agreement was reached. during the last four months, the czech presidency has been very active and responsible in its negotiations with parliament, presenting a series of compromise proposals on the various aspects of the directive, with a view to reaching a final solution that would be acceptable to both the council and parliament. today i can say with some responsibility that the council has made a number of significant concessions to parliament's demands, and yet this has not been enough for parliament. for example, the council was willing to abandon the common position and accept the view of the parliament that all standby working time is working time. the council also made concessions in the discussion on reconciliation of work and family life, the time limit for granting alternative daily rest and the definition of senior staff, and i could go on. the council also wanted to reach agreement with parliament on the key issue of opt-outs and was willing to go along with parliament and accepted its other proposals, such as the prohibition of opt-outs during probationary periods, the removal of the maximum weekly working time limit for opt-outs, although we naturally felt that we were acting against the interests of employees, and we were also willing to accept the introduction of a record of the time actually worked in opt-outs. parliament did not, however, meet the council. on behalf of the czech presidency, i sincerely regret that parliament was unwilling to accept a compromise and agree to a revision of the directive, which not only the member states but also the citizens of the european union have been waiting for for five years. the adoption of a revision of the directive would contribute to greater protection of workers, to addressing issues of work alertness and rest, and to creating the conditions for a gradual reduction in the use of opt-outs in the member states. but your representatives on the negotiating committee have not heard those arguments. they refused to accept them, they refused to accept the council's favourable proposals and the commission's compromises, and they maintained their ideological position. since parliament was unwilling to respect the situation in the council and the current reality, the existing directive will continue to apply. there will continue to be no restrictions on the use of opt-outs or monitoring, and workers will be able to continue working up to 78 hours a week. parliament's position is likely to result in further expansion of the use of opt-outs. the european commission already has indications from two other countries that they will decide to introduce it, and therefore the hope of its future abolition is even lower. the council wanted to prevent this, but parliament decided otherwise.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very sorry that the council and parliament have not been able to reach agreement in the final round of negotiations on the revision of the working time directive. the commission did all it could to reach a compromise, putting forward a series of proposals covering all the main issues to help the two legislators get closer to the final version. however, the council and parliament ultimately insisted on their differing views on the future of the opt-outs, which could not be reconciled. i understand and respect parliament's wish to put an end to the use of exceptions once and for all. that would be ideal for me too, and we also included this element in the commission's proposal to amend the directive in 2005. however, after several years of negotiations, it has become clear that this will not ensure agreement in the council, that it will not overcome the blocking minority. too many member states simply insisted that individual exemptions should be possible and that this possibility should be maintained in the directive. the commission therefore put forward alternative proposals aimed at improving the legal protection of workers benefiting from derogations and de facto weakening their use, introducing close monitoring of the use of derogations at national and european level and establishing limits to the current use of derogations, thus also making the granting of derogations increasingly unattractive to member states. we believe that this approach would actually improve the conditions of workers in practice and, more importantly, increase the long-term prospects for member states to move towards abolishing exemptions. parliament took the view that there was no better arrangement than one which explicitly provided for the abolition of the opt-out. i respect the reasons for this decision, but i take a different view. as i have said many times before, i am fully convinced that the failure to reach agreement on the amendment is bad news for european workers and businesses, for european institutions and, ultimately, for europe as a whole. firstly, it does not address the issue of exceptions which will continue to be used in accordance with the current directive without a date for their expiry and with a very small number of restrictions and without any specific review. i know that many of you have objected to workers working 65 hours a week, and i understand those concerns, but the fact is that the current directive allows for up to 70 hours a week. secondly, although the court of justice's decisions on standby time and compensatory rest periods will remain unchanged, i am afraid that in practice this will not lead to better protection of workers in many cases. in a number of member states, high-precision industries have real difficulties in complying with the rules stemming from the simap, jaeger judgments. the result so far is that even more member states have started to use exceptions to solve this problem. there are currently 15 of them, and i am concerned that now that there is no agreement on the standby time, even more member states will start to use opt-outs to comply with the european court of justice's decision, because they will have no other choice. with the growing number of states benefiting from the derogation, it will be much more difficult to reach agreement in the council on its termination. thirdly, the failure of the negotiations means that a number of very important specific guarantees approved by the council for workers throughout europe who are already benefiting from the derogations will not apply, will not come into force. finally, we will also prepare for the possibility of improvements in the measures to ensure a balance between work and family life and a clearer definition of the derogation for the self-employed. however, both legislators have already taken a decision and the immediate consequence will be the failure to carry out the special review of exceptions required by the current working time directive. i respect that decision. we will now have to reflect with the other members of the commission on the situation that has arisen as a result of the disagreement between the legislators. i would like to say, however, that after five years of negotiations, during which a number of sub-proposals were put forward, during which a number of attempts were made to find a way forward, we have not found that way. this means that it is not easy to come up with a new proposal that will solve the situation by miracle. i therefore consider it necessary to consult the social partners very carefully on the situation and only then will the commission be able to take any further decisions and proceedings.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would first of all like to say on behalf of the epp-ed group that it is not in the interests of european workers that the negotiations for a new working time law in europe have failed and that the old working time law continues to apply. i would also like to point out that it is a myth that the council alone is to blame for this, while the majority of parliament has sacrificed itself in white, shining armor for the interests of workers. the reality is that both are to blame. the council has not wavered or wavered on the opt-out question, but the majority of parliament has just as firmly maintained that the only way to find a solution is to abolish the opt-out. the two parties are like two fast trains, and the end is near! you've lost your chance! it would have been possible, for example, to find a european standby service regulation which states throughout europe: "standby service is working time", as the ecj has defined. this would have required that the parliamentary majority had also moved by a millimeter on the issue of opt-out, if it had been a question of, for example, under what conditions an opt-out is possible as sharply as possible and who is above it. the collective bargaining agreement should have been brought into play. but none of that happened. the commission has been very active in this area, and it is not surprising that the commission has been able to take part in the debate on the subject. that was the other half of the uncompromising attitude that a new solution has failed to achieve. that's just very unfortunate. as i said, this is not in the interests of the workers.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we would have been happy to present to the citizens of europe, at the time of the elections, a working time directive with minimum standards of health protection. this would have been our contribution to the concept of 'good work'. our decision would have set minimum standards and at the same time offered flexibility, which would have been a solution for the hospitals. but the council has been blocking for weeks and ultimately failed to do so. unfortunately, the commission is also to blame here. the commission has not contributed to a solution. the commission's proposals have trampled labour law and called into question what is generally considered to be the minimum legal standard. and to approve exploitation by law, we greens and the great majority of the negotiating committee were not prepared to do that! the hard core of the council's opponents - and this is well known - included the german minister for labour and social democrats, olaf scholz. he was very serious about making exceptions to the permanent solution, which allows up to 78 hours a week. while he presents himself in germany as the advocate of workers, in brussels he is the spokesman of those in the council who oppose the interests of european workers. he has now gone after the social democrats!
chairman of the ep delegation to the conciliation committee. - mr president, i have to say something. i have asked to make a few brief remarks because i believe that this is necessary. when we are told by the president of the council, mr sedláček, that the council adopted the proposal at the beginning of last week, i must say quite clearly that we received different information in the trilogue. we have received information that the commission proposal will not be accepted, that there will be no possibility of opting out during the probationary period, that the six-month period will not be accepted. it has also been made clear that standby duty is not considered a necessary extension of working time. so here we have been made clear exactly what they said here, namely that you want to adapt. that was not the position of parliament. i want to make this clear: this information has been given to us. the problem may be that you came in late, after midnight, but we clearly got this information that way. secondly, mr bushill-matthews has given the impression that the negotiations were conducted in a biased and one-sided manner. let me make one thing clear: the negotiating delegation consisted of the rapporteur, mr cercas, the chairman of the committee, the shadow rapporteur, mr silva peneda, of the ppe-ed group, and myself. there was never a case where we didn't agree. the guidelines in this house are such that my group did not have a majority in the delegation to the conciliation committee! the result was clear: 15-0 and five shutouts. the debate today has also made it quite clear that a large majority of parliament supports this position. i really don't want that impression to last.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i too welcome the agreement reached by our group and we shall be voting in favour of it tomorrow. we are thus fulfilling the wishes of many citizens who have written and e-mailed us countless times to ask us to finally take action here. we are also, of course, complying with the written declaration of parliament, which has clearly called for the ban. i am a little surprised at the rapporteur for the committee on agriculture. i would be interested to know whether she was really speaking on behalf of the committee on agriculture or just on her own behalf. i would like to make one thing very clear: there is a legal basis! we have, for example, the ban on the trade in dog and cat fur, which came into force at the beginning of this year. it is very clear that we have a basis here. and we already have a clear distortion of the internal market, because we have a ban in at least five member states and others are planning to do so. the european union must therefore act to address this distortion of the internal market. so there are bases for our actions. there are legal bases for our actions and there are internal market legal bases for our actions. i would like to make this very clear again. as for the exceptions, let me be clear and unequivocal: the markets for inuit have been collapsing for years. that's what the inuit said at the hearing. we invited them to join us on the committee and they specifically pointed out that these markets had collapsed before we did. if the inuit are going to sell at all, it's only if it's clear that the inuit products have nothing to do with the way these seals are hunted. only by a clear cutting edge is there any chance for inuit to make a mark here.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the animal testing directive is based on the 3r principle: the avoidance, reduction and also the improvement of animal testing must be pursued. we need to develop alternative methods, and we need to push them forward. thirdly, we must find a compromise between animal welfare and research. the health of the people must be the priority. and you, commissioner, have stressed that we need the same standards in the member states. the current draft law is based on the animal welfare and protection action plan and the animal health strategy. we want to ensure a high level of protection and a high standard in the eu and the rest of the world. however, a complete abolition of animal testing without full replacement by alternative methods currently available would make much of animal research in the eu almost impossible. research would migrate, we would lose the enormous amount of knowledge that we have, and we would become completely dependent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. granted, it's not a simple spaghetti, but for sick people, that spaghetti may be the key to survival. the result of the vote in the committee on agriculture on 31 march satisfies these requirements. the compromise, which was adopted with 72% of the votes, should and must be supported here. i therefore appeal to all members to reject all the far-reaching amendments tabled and to support the amendments tabled by the epp and the pse.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not mahatma gandhi said, "the greatness and moral progress of a nation is measured by the way it treats its animals". animal welfare for laboratory animals is an important, sensitive issue that many would like to ignore. but it's extremely sensitive, especially when it comes to research on monkeys and even on great apes. we know that from the public's reaction. the commission was under great pressure. i would like to congratulate commissioner dimas on his excellent work. you have done a very good job of preparing for the procedure, and you have made important improvements in the protection of animals, such as the prior authorization of all experiments and the subsequent control of all experiments. they have extended the directive to all animal species so that it does not apply only to mammals. the commission has also successfully resolved the highly controversial issue of testing on non-human primates: the tests have been limited to life-threatening diseases and brain diseases. unfortunately, the vote in the committees has made the commission's proposal much better in many details. the standards i have just mentioned have been turned upside down by the vote in the committee on agriculture. i would like to give an example: after the vote in the committee on agriculture, if a trial has not been approved by the authorities after 60 days, it is automatically approved. this is an untenable state of affairs for europe! i therefore appeal to my colleagues to read carefully what you are voting on tomorrow and not to follow the voting leaders! i am grateful to the rapporteur for being willing to make some compromises in the last few metres. i am pleased that neil parish intends to make an oral proposal tomorrow to clarify the duration of the projects. it is a pity that article 15 is not passed. article 15 creates the possibility for some member states to maintain even stricter, more stringent standards, as is the case in the netherlands. why do we now want to lower the level, which is very high in the netherlands? the aim of all of us must be to strike a balance between high animal welfare and research intensity. i can't stand the constant murder argument that research is going away. that is not true in all respects either! schopenhauer said: "any foolish boy can crush a beetle, but all the professors in the world cannot create a new one". we must communicate values that's our job!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! the epp-ed group supports the text of the amending directive on the introduction of penalties for marine pollution negotiated by the rapporteur with the council and congratulates him on this. we also congratulate the vice-president, because without the help of the commission it would not have been possible to reach an agreement with the council at first reading. it is a great day for us because at the end of this period we can close this important dossier! we must always remember that the new rules were necessary because the european court of justice, in its relevant judgments of 2005 and 2007, finally made it clear that legislation, including criminal law, is admissible on the basis of the first pillar. we need this legislation to actually protect the seas from ships and from the behaviour of captains, shipowners and some others. because so far, we simply have to say that the civil liability regulations are not deterrent enough. it's a lot cheaper to drop something off illegally. this can't be right! that is why we need effective sanctions. i thank the rapporteur for this trialogue which has now actually been agreed between all three institutions. it is clear that serious pollution of the sea must be classified as a criminal offence and punished, while minor pollution can be classified as an offence, so that we can differentiate according to its severity. but - and this is very important - repeated, even minor pollution of the sea must be considered a crime, because it just adds up to pollute the sea, and this is not a crime of chivalry. we must send clear signals and we appeal to the member states - i hope someone will pass this appeal on to the council - to implement this directive immediately and then to apply it immediately. because only deterrent criminal sanctions can protect our seas!
member of the commission. − madam president, this was a real model of cooperation between the different parties represented here, between the shadows, the rapporteurs, the czech presidency and all our collaborators, and i congratulate them on their great work. that great work is a result of the agreement that is on the table today after the commission put the package on the table in 2007. the results include new consumer rights, such as the right to switch phone operators in one working day, the establishment of a european telecoms authority, more interdependence for national telecom regulators, measures to ensure that europeans can be connected to broadband internet, the opening of radio spectrum for use by new wireless services, the new instrument of functional separation to boost competition and broaden consumer choice, a clear pro-competitive rule for investment in high-speed broadband networks, better rights and new guarantees for consumers, mechanisms to address data breaches, and so on and so forth. those are very important new measures for a sector that is worth more than eur 300 billion in revenues and that is leading europe’s global lead in mobile phones and high-speed internet. i would like to underline that if parliament votes for this package it has to be implemented into national law by 2010 and the new telecoms authority will come into existence by this summer. the vote of the european parliament is very good news for consumers all over europe. with roaming we have provided a remedy for a symptom resulting from the lack of a single european telecoms market. now the reform goes to the heart of the problem; it paves the way for a true single market for telecoms operators and consumers alike. it is very important for our industry. the legislative text will provide a stable legal framework, which supports investment and innovation and provides the regulatory consistency the industry needs to plan business strategies for the future. this is very important at a time of economic turmoil because here, at this time, we have to maximise the contribution of this sector to the productivity and growth of the economy as a whole. i must say very clearly that parliament has not shirked its responsibilities in the face of this challenge. the economy is very important also for consumers. therefore, i just want to say that access to emergency services, fewer barriers to switching operators in one day, privacy, where personal data is concerned – all this has found a solution. i welcome parliament’s strengthening of the rules concerning the use of cookies and similar devices. not only will internet users be better informed about what happens to their personal data but it will also become easier for them to exercise control over their personal information in practice. i welcome the endorsement for the mandatory notification of personal data breaches. this is the first time an obligation of this kind has been introduced at european level. i welcome also – and parliament has always supported this – the fact that disabled people will have a stronger position. i welcome most of all that now consumers will benefit from guarantees in relation to privacy, freedom of expression and access to information. all of this together – whether through the adoption of harmonisation measures or through greater supervision of remedies chosen by national regulators – will ensure greater consistency in the internal market and will help the new authority which will play a key role in this process, bringing together the expertise and the experience of 27 national regulators and breaking down the remaining obstacles of a truly borderless europe. i am very glad that parliament has played an important role in enhancing the role of the multiannual spectrum policy programmes, which will be proposed by the commission, and for the first time parliament will have a say in this. for this purpose, we will, before the better regulation directive comes into practice, modify the commission decisions on the radio spectrum policy group in order to allow this policy group to report directly to the council and to parliament. i also welcome parliament’s support for the principles of technology and service neutrality and for agreeing to the possibility of harmonising the frequency bands where usage rights can be traded. all this will be essential for the investment in the next-generation networks and for the return on investment, taking due account of the risks involved. this will be very important also to guide the commission when it comes out with more detailed regulatory guidance on the next-generation access. i have to make two declarations in response to points raised by parliamentarians. the first one clarifies that the commission will promote a wide debate on the scope of universal service and will come forward with early proposals as necessary. the second states that the commission will start work without delay to consult widely and make proposals relating to the extension of data breach notification requirements in other sectors. the other document on the table is the gsm directive. here the commission can fully support the changes aimed at clarifying the frequency bands to be covered by the amending directive. i just want to underline that this directive alone leads to cutback savings of up to eur 1.6 billion for the mobile sector, which shows very clearly that parliament is managing to put on the table an equilibrium of decisions – decisions for the sake of the economy, decisions for the sake of the industry, decisions for the sake of the consumers. all this together is a very good package in the interests of europe. commission declaration- on universal service (recital 3a) the commission takes note of the text of recital (3a) agreed by the european parliament and the council. the commission wishes in this context to reaffirm that, as stated in its communication com (2008) 572 of 25 september 2008 on the scope of universal service in electronic communications networks and services, it will in the course of 2009 promote an extensive debate at eu level that will examine a wide range of alternative approaches and allow all interested parties to express their views. the commission will summarise the debate in a communication addressed to the european parliament and council and will bring forward by 1 may 2010 such proposals in regard to the universal service directive as may be necessary. - on data breach notification (article 2(h) and 4(3) - eprivacy directive) the reform of the regulatory framework for electronic communications introduces a new concept to eu data protection and privacy rules: a mandatory notification of personal data breaches by providers of electronic communications services and networks. it is an important step towards enhanced security and privacy protection, although at this stage it remains limited to the electronic communications sector. the commission takes note of the will of the european parliament that an obligation to notify personal data breaches should not be limited to the electronic communications sector but also apply to entities such as providers of information society services. such an approach would be fully aligned with the overall public policy goal of enhancing the protection of eu citizens’ personal data, and their ability to take action in the event of such data being compromised. in this context, the commission wishes to reaffirm its view, as stated in the course of the negotiations on the reform of the regulatory framework, that the obligation for providers of publicly available electronic communications services to notify personal data breaches makes it appropriate to extend the debate to generally applicable breach notification requirements. the commission will, therefore, without delay initiate the appropriate preparatory work, including consultation with stakeholders by 2011, with a view to presenting proposals in this area, as appropriate. in addition, the commission will consult with the article 29 working party and the european data protection supervisor on the potential for the application in other sectors of the principles embodied in the data breach notification rules in directive 2002/58/ec, regardless of the sector or type of data concerned.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too would like to begin by thanking all those who helped us reach a good compromise on the telecom package at the end of the day. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr malcolm harbour, mrs pilar del castillo vera, mrs catherine trautmann in the first place and, of course, mrs francisca pleguezuelos aguilar. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for this excellent cooperation, including with the commission. you yourself have been involved in the trilogue negotiations on many occasions. that's a good sign too. you have worked really constructively here, together with the czech presidency, to be able to achieve this compromise at the end of the day. the compromise is a good compromise and i very much hope that it will be widely accepted in the vote tomorrow. it has been raised: the telecommunications sector as a whole is one of the most dynamic sectors of our european economy, and it is particularly important in times of financial and economic crisis to create the conditions for this to continue to be a job engine in europe. the telecommunications industry is a major employer and with our legislative framework we are creating the conditions for this sector to develop well. why is the telecom package so important? i would like to highlight the most important point in my view. we need high-speed internet access throughout europe, not just in the big cities but also in the rural areas. we, the young people, are the ones who communicate worldwide. we, our companies, are global and international, and so are our governments and administrations. what does the telecom package do? it creates the necessary legal framework for companies to invest in the widespread deployment of broadband networks. we have created a sensible incentive with this package and the investment protection it provides, but at the same time we have ensured that new markets are not cemented by the rules in the regulatory framework. the risks involved in the construction of the new networks have been well and fairly distributed. what else is covered in the telecom package? on the one hand, the effective use of frequencies is also important for the establishment of a broadband network covering the whole territory. we have spoken in favour of a more flexible radio policy in europe in the package. the frequencies freed up by the switchover to digital television - the so-called digital dividend - should also be available for mobile broadband services, which can fill gaps, particularly in rural areas. we have also recognized the special role of broadcasting in guaranteeing freedom of expression in our democratic society. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, it is fascinating to follow this debate – colleagues have already laid out the main topics and the commissioner has made her statement – but to see that the council is completely absent tells us a lot about the way we sometimes operate in the european union. this is completely unacceptable. we are experiencing one of the gravest crises ever in the european union and worldwide, and talking about a topic that is so relevant and so important for job creation – one of the areas where we still have stability to a large degree – and to see that the council is not reflecting and debating with us today to my eyes tells us a lot. i hope that we will see the next council presidency here more often, because we cannot continue to operate in this way. let me make two points. i want to thank the shadow rapporteur, pilar del castillo vera, who has done great work. it was difficult, and it was not clear at the very beginning that we would make it and that we would have greater europeanisation in this area. we seem to have found a way that is acceptable and that will help the national regulators to work together and to learn from each other. this will be a good breakthrough, especially for the new member states. let me touch on two points, which i am glad the commissioner mentioned: investment in new infrastructure, which will have a new framework and work under competition rules which, although different, will allow investment to flow in this area; and the guidelines which will very soon be published for ngas. i hope that those guidelines will follow the philosophy established in this house, from which i hope the commissioner will not depart. on the universal service part, i hope that the commissioner will find a way of ensuring that the telecom operators, which will now profit from new investment possibilities will, for their part, invest to make sure that all citizens have access to broadband in the future. i hope this will be covered by the universal service directive, which is to come in the second half of the year. my last point would be to urge this house, my colleagues and the commission – and the council hopefully as well – to look into those areas where we have found compromises, but with which we are not completely happy. this touches on internet issues, such as the way states can intervene if they think citizens are unlawfully accessing internet content, which is something we call ‘internet sparen’ in german, and network management. i hope we will find a way to look into those issues during the second half of the year and find the right framework in order to build a greater consensus between us and the citizens, who are depending greatly on us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i can expressly endorse the rapporteur's praise on one point. i think it is very good that commissioner reding has again departed from her proposal on certain points. the use of frequencies is much more balanced than originally envisaged in the commission proposal. i think that the way we have agreed now is that public interests are much better taken into account in the frequencies in favour of broadcasting. i think that in the current debate on financial markets, we have prevented something very bad from happening with our discussion. the relationship between the market and what the market can do and the role of the state is much more balanced in this proposal as it has been negotiated. i believe that it is a step forward in safeguarding our democracy and that it can also make valuable contributions to culture. i am not at all satisfied - although we have further discussions in the group, i want to address this here - with the compromise concerning the restriction of the rights of internet users in cases where infringements are accepted. i know that the original amendment no 138 was not in the best legal form. i do not see how the compromise now reached can guarantee that a judge will be involved in this decision on the restriction of fundamental rights before the fundamental rights of a citizen of the european union are restricted. i would be very interested, commissioner, to hear your interpretation of the compromise, and in particular what you think this compromise, which we are now discussing, means for the french model of hadopic surgery. i believe that we will create two different situations for the consideration of fundamental rights. it may be better in one member state than in another. i think that's a very, very unfortunate compromise wording. we could be better as a parliament. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this decision. copyright must be regulated in another regulation and should not be regulated in the context of market regulation.
i have to say, madam president, as rapporteur for the directive on data protection in the field of electronic communications, i would like to thank first of all malcolm harbour, who has given the concept of enhanced cooperation a dimension that is actually true to the word. it was not the first procedure of its kind, but in this form it was probably the most fruitful. i would also like to thank commissioner reding, who attended each of the trilogues and made a personal contribution, which is not the case with all commissioners at the moment. i think we've shown that the best consumer protection is effective data protection first and foremost. that it is important that they are informed about this, especially in times when people are moving around the internet and do not know exactly what is happening behind their screens. we have taken up and improved the commission's proposal to make notification of security breaches compulsory. it is a stepwise procedure developed in cooperation with national regulators, telecommunications providers and policy makers. i am very pleased that the commission has announced that it will present a horizontal directive on this by the end of 2011, because it does not make sense to deal with this only in the field of electronic communications. at the same time, we have achieved that the user's consent must now be given when programs or applications, including personal data, are stored on the hard disk. i would like to mention briefly in this connection that we worked very closely with the industry concerned on the original proposals. the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. they then stirred up trouble and confusion in the council and the commission, and then wanted to get back what had been originally put forward because they did not like the compromise proposals. the lesson from history is that we should trust each other as institutions to work well together and not let those who represent different interests drive a wedge between us. in conclusion, i would like to refer once again to the report by mrs trautmann. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we need to get a judicial review before they shut down the network.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank all my colleagues for the really good work that has been done. i would like to thank the council too, but i see that it is not here at all, but the commissioner is here! i think we did something good. mr harbour, you were rapporteur on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and i must say that working with you and working together has been very positive. we have achieved a great deal for the citizens, and this is particularly important for us social democrats, particularly in the area of universal service. this telecom package has been designed to be much more customer-friendly and has thus made an important contribution to consumer protection. in future, telecommunications operators will have to offer contracts for only 12 months, which is very important. so far, many providers have only offered 24-month contracts, which is a very long term and prevents you from leaving a contract early. this is a very important contribution. when changing providers, the number must be available within one day. in the past, longer waiting times have often led to the refusal to switch to a cheaper supplier and have hindered competition in this area. we have made a big profit here too. the socialist group has also insisted that emergency calls be automatically transmitted from the mobile phone to the site, thus enabling rapid assistance. again, it was a long struggle to get this through, as many claimed at first that it was technically impossible. it has been proven that it can be done, and it must be done. this is a great help to the citizens. it should soon be easier for people with disabilities too. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's telecommunications infrastructure is not affected by the crisis. we must also ensure that this is done, especially when we talk about universal services, and that is also very positive. there was one point that was controversial until the very end: how do we deal with law enforcement when questions arise about criminal or civil matters? the compromise we reached with the council today is an important step forward, because we have included the reservation of the judge. reservation of jurisdiction means that we do not leave it to the companies alone to decide which sanctions to impose, but we have ensured that consumers can also defend themselves with the rights as laid down in the european convention on human rights, and we do not leave the service providers with any power. this is a very important matter!
i have to say, madam president, i 'd like to say this: the debate today was dominated by the question: how can we strike a balance between internet freedom, free access, copyright protection and respect for fundamental rights? this is the magic formula for finding the right balance. i want to emphasize that this is not about arbitrary internet shutdowns. it can't be that as in turkey youtube is shut down because there was allegedly an insult to atatürk. we don't want to have a situation like china. of course, pages cannot be closed arbitrarily for political reasons. but let me be clear: there can be no unlimited civil right to unlimited illegal downloading! that is not the point to be discussed here. instead, we need to ensure - and this is the balance we are looking for and haven't found yet - how can creators of content whose work appears on the internet be properly compensated? we need a new model for that. it's not the french model. we want a judicial restraining order, a judicial decision on fundamental rights. but we have yet to find that new social contract in the knowledge society between copyright and fundamental rights protection.
thank you very much. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday. the
we'll pass the request along. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs anni podimata, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the indication by means of uniform labels and information on the consumption of energy and other resources by energy-related products (recast) (com (2008) 778 final - c6-0412/2008 - 2008/0222 (cod)) (a6-0146/2009).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first, it's a real and important project to realize energy efficiency, to save more energy. it is right that we are using methods which we regrettably do not use in other areas, namely labelling to help consumers choose more energy-efficient products, while at the same time stimulating competition for more efficient appliances. it's a wise, right decision! the procedure used so far has been reasonable and has worked well. i therefore believe that this system of labelling with grades a to g, which has worked well for over 15 years and was extended a few years ago by the a+ and a++ categories, must now logically be extended and modified because we are facing new challenges. but we should look at things carefully, and i would like to take the commission's concerns seriously. if we do what the majority in the committee has suggested, which is to stick to a-g, i fear that old appliances will still be classified as a, while new, more energy-efficient appliances will be classified as b. so either we're going to have a transition period for relabelling - that's going to lead to confusion - or we're going to have a constant change, a constant relabelling. that's why the proposal to work with minus is much simpler and more understandable. we need a procedure that is understandable to consumers, that is accepted, that leads to consumers supporting what has been accepted so far in the future. we need a system that also helps manufacturers to invest in eco-design. i therefore believe that the commission's proposal is the wiser, the more reasonable one! secondly, and i think this is also important, in a half-sentence: i believe that everything that is being proposed here to tax advertising with forced information is wrong. this is unacceptable! i don't think we have to do this. it's not worth it! it's not necessary at all! we can do without it, the labels are enough.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.35 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon.)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission takes note of the decision of parliament to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution accompanying mr cashman’s report until the next parliamentary term. while fully respecting parliament’s decision, the commission is not convinced that the vote closing parliament’s first reading would tie the hands of the next parliament. therefore, the commission will reconsider its proposal only after the two branches of legislative authority have adopted their positions, but intends to continue to pursue a constructive dialogue with both institutions in the mean time and confirms its willingness to seek a compromise with parliament and the council.
i do not know whether we should congratulate mr cashman on that. - i know. then let's congratulate him.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission takes note of the position expressed today by the european parliament and, in view of the commitments it has made to this house, the commission will draw the most appropriate conclusions from today's negative vote, taking into account also the council's position. the commission will consider how best to achieve the desired result, namely to guarantee the social protection of workers while avoiding increasing the administrative burden in the road transport sector.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take note of the fact that an error has crept into the voting list of the epp-ed group. in the final vote on both the amended proposal and the legislative resolution, it must read: 'free votes'. i would also ask the group to consider this.
thank you very much, mr neil parish. we wish you the same pleasure in your work as you do here in the european parliament during your time as a member of your national parliament.
i am not going to say that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. i would like to say a particularly warm word of thanks to paul dunstan on my left, who has done this brilliantly over the years! (applause from the centre) paul, i want to tell you that we've made a few mistakes together, sometimes i've made them, sometimes you have. but we were an unbeatable team. i thank you from the bottom of my heart.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the vote on the sealing was a success - and i am pleased about that - but the vote on the parish report is not. i would have liked to see a clear position on animal welfare, a progressive position that is forward-looking, that makes it clear that we need alternatives to animal testing. animal testing should be a thing of the past. but there were clearly vested interests in this from the industry - particularly the pharmaceutical industry - and my group and i are therefore very disappointed that we have not succeeded in making the duplication of animal testing and the barbaric conditions in which animals are kept a thing of the past. the commission has already made a clear decision to ban animal testing on apes, but it has not been able to correct this. i am saddened by this, because a society must always be measured by how it treats animals, and the european union must no longer be synonymous with unnecessary animal testing. i would therefore have liked to see more consideration given to the evaluation of non-animal alternatives in this draft directive, because only the clear support for alternatives to animal testing will bring an end to these barbaric and unnecessary animal tests in the european union. this cannot be done by declarations of intent, but only by highlighting the importance of alternatives to animal testing and by providing appropriate research funding. we cannot talk about alternatives to animal testing and then not support their development and their rapid acceptance. so we cannot allow the non-animal alternatives to be financially drained. the good draft of the eu commission would have required more backing in parliament.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council on 18 and 19 june.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the june summit will have to deal with the lisbon treaty again - hopefully for the last time before it enters into force. i wish you, mr vondra, all the best in the czech senate tomorrow, that it goes well and that we only have the irish referendum. to this end, you should negotiate the package of so-called guarantees with ireland in june. of course, we must also meet the expectations of the irish people and the irish government. but we must be careful not to create new obstacles for all the other member states, for example if one of these guarantees has to be ratified again in all the member states. perhaps you can tell us how this package is to be laced for june. secondly, mr president of the commission, we are naturally interested in the re-election of the new commission president. we, the european parliament and the council, would like to see an agreement on the procedure in june/july. we want to have consultation, as the lisbon treaty also provides for the future. mr president-in-office, could you also say something about this?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the declarations by the council and the commission in preparation for the european council meeting have been very disappointing to us as transport workers. the european union is facing a global economic crisis, and the hope is that trade within the union and imports and exports will soon pick up. this calls for the development of transport infrastructure - rail, road, inland waterway, maritime, ports and airports - in line with demand, and the development of a european transport policy with smart transport and logistics systems. the citizens of the european union also expect clear approaches from the european union on how to manage transport volumes in a more environmentally friendly way, not by means of a directorial approach but by means of a market economy. a good example of this is the introduction of emissions trading for aviation from 2012 which has just been decided by the european institutions. but other regulations, for example on maritime transport, are still pending. we need an environmentally friendly transport policy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the development of a european transport policy, the european transport policy, the environment and the environment. this is the only way to achieve a global environmental improvement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why my group is calling on the european council - and i hope the council representative will take up this matter - to discuss and prepare, at the next council, balanced approaches to global, environmentally friendly transport policies in preparation for the copenhagen climate conference. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, we are all aware that we are continuing to suffer from one of the most severe financial and economic crises for many years. the union and the member states have taken a wide range of measures both to try to mitigate the effects of this crisis, and also to address some of its root causes, while also taking into account the pressing need to better prepare ourselves for the future in order to face the challenges of the global economy. we are also aware that the current difficulties are not simply about figures on balance sheets, or amending economic forecasts. they have a real impact on people: on their livelihoods, on their families, and on their standards of living. most directly affected are those who have already lost their jobs as a result, or the many more who risk losing their jobs over the months to come. the spring european council agreed that an employment summit should be held in order to allow for an exchange of experiences on the extent to which the recovery measures taken have succeeded in supporting employment and creating new jobs and more jobs. the summit will take place in prague this thursday. the mandate given to the presidency was clear. we need to examine issues such as maintaining employment levels through flexicurity and mobility, creating a favourable environment for investments and job creation by businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, upgrading skills and anticipating labour market needs. we must also look at strengthening and restructuring the labour market so as to prepare it for the future. our objective is to ensure that the summit is not just an opportunity to talk, but that it produces concrete outcomes and recommendations which will benefit society as a whole. the participants will include the social troika at the level of the prime ministers and employment ministers of the current czech presidency and of the forthcoming swedish and spanish presidencies. the social partners will be represented by the presidents and general secretaries of business europe and the european trade union confederation, together with the representatives of small and medium-sized undertakings and public-sector employers. the european commission will be represented by president barroso and commissioner špidla. the chairs of the employment committee, the social protection committee and the economic policy committee will also be present. representatives of the european parliament have, of course, been invited as well. it is also my understanding that the president of the european parliament, mr pöttering, is going to attend. in order to help prepare for the summit, three workshops have been organised in the countries of the three participating delegations: in madrid, in stockholm and in prague. these workshops have especially addressed the issues of upgrading skills, increasing access to employment, and how to maintain employment, create jobs and promote mobility. these workshops have enabled us to focus, with the social partners, on the key areas of concern. we were pleased that the representative of the european parliament attended the preparatory workshops – namely mr andersson, chair of the committee on employment and social affairs. the workshop on skills upgrading, which took place in madrid, highlighted that skills are the key to preparing for the future. in the short term, skills increase both productivity and mobility. in the longer term, they pave the way to recovery, increase competitiveness and are crucial for reducing exclusion and promoting greater social equality. the case for upgrading skills, which is endorsed by all stakeholders, is not just about formal qualifications, but also about promoting areas such as communication skills amongst young people. the issue of financing the acquisition of higher skills cannot be overlooked, especially in a time of crisis. it requires commitment not only from the public authorities, but also from employers and from workers and job-seekers themselves. at eu level, there is a need to explore further the possibilities of using the european social fund. as far as employers are concerned, their own interest in developing skills is self-evident, as firms which fail to invest in skills upgrading are two and a half times more likely to go out of business than those that do. the workshop in stockholm on increasing access to employment focused on how to get the newly unemployed and the inactive into – or back into – jobs as quickly as possible. the newly-unemployed should not be allowed to become long-term unemployed. it is particularly important to ensure that social protection systems serve as a springboard into new jobs, and not just as passive safety nets. a need for incentives to actively seek employment cannot be overlooked. a flexicurity approach should contribute to making transitions pay, not least by providing the necessary element of security. during this workshop in stockholm, it was also stressed that the short-term measures should not be allowed to prejudice the longer term. early retirement schemes are a poor solution to providing more jobs for the young, as they lower overall participation rates, and are inevitably accompanied by higher social security costs. at eu level, the possible use of the european social fund for funding active inclusion measures was identified, as was the possibility of enabling older workers to stay in employment by reducing their social security contributions. at the last workshop, which took place in prague last week, the need to maintain employment and to improve an environment friendly to entrepreneurship and job creation was emphasised. the temporary short-term working arrangements can be beneficial, but their financial sustainability needs to be ensured. however, we must guard against the trend to protectionism, which can only harm the union as a whole. we also need to use active measures to promote mobility and again, in this context, the increased flexibility of our labour markets has a key role to play. despite the impact of the crisis, there are still a substantial number of vacancies in europe, but there is a lack of coordination both within and between the member states. often, people are in the wrong place, or lack the right skills, or a combination of both. it is clear from these workshops that the present crisis is not just cyclical, but structural. profound changes are going to be needed to face stiff competition in a globalised economy and to safeguard long-term employment in the eu. however, in many instances, these changes are actually about continuing initiatives or even accelerating the overdue reforms which have been pursued for many years in the context of the european employment strategy. apart from the efforts to maintain current jobs, we must also create a favourable environment for investors and businesses to invest and create new jobs. we cannot keep all existing jobs: the crisis requires structural change and people will lose jobs. but we must offer the unemployed a chance to improve their skills and employability, and to quickly find a new job which has been created somewhere else. let me also briefly touch upon some other topics which you will discuss here today during your social agenda debate. i congratulate mr silva peneda, in particular, on his extensive and far-reaching report which covers a wide range of issues, and which calls specifically for an ambitious social policy agenda. mr peneda’s report underlines the need for job creation and flexibility in the workplace as part of europe’s broader social policy. it also recognises the importance of developing new skills, of lifelong learning and of promoting university-business cooperation. these are all key aspects which will also be taken up as part of our agenda for this week’s summit. this wide-ranging report is complemented by that of ms lambert on how to include people who are frequently excluded from the labour market. this week’s summit will certainly need to take into account this important goal. we cannot and will not seek to push job creation for a few. our objective – even more so in the current difficult climate – is to adopt an inclusive approach to employment policy. the czech presidency supports the long-term employment targets of the european union and has repeatedly emphasised the need to better motivate people to seek employment and to improve their employability. we all probably agree that it is better if people earn their living themselves and are free instead of being dependent on the social protection system. this is why we need to reduce the segmentation of our labour markets. the global adjustment fund provides support for workers made redundant as a result of globalisation. i am pleased that there is agreement between parliament and the council on amending the fund, and i am grateful to ms stauner for her work on this. by introducing greater flexibility in how the fund is used and by reducing the number of redundancies from 1 000 to 500, it will become an ever more effective instrument for helping to tackle the effects of the economic down-turn. let me conclude by saying that the most urgent need now is to ensure that the many ideas which have emerged from preparatory workshops, and which will shape the debate at this week’s employment summit, are translated into action. as i said at the outset, we are looking for a concrete outcome which will benefit society as a whole, as well as european citizens. we cannot hope to resolve the effects of the current crisis in a single meeting, but we should focus on specific recommendations and initiatives which will together play a role in mitigating the effects of the crisis and help us emerge from it even stronger.
president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sharp rise in unemployment is the most dramatic consequence of the world economic crisis. it affects individuals and families, and it brings real hardship. it affects society, it robs it of its vitality, it affects the economy, which loses skills and experience that will take years to rebuild. this is where the human cost of the crisis is felt most strongly. unemployment is a local, national and european phenomenon. within the european market, where more and more citizens are exercising their right to free movement, employment has long been a matter of national and european policy. it is therefore essential to design the responses from a european perspective. unemployment is our first concern in the commission. the commission is working tirelessly to ensure that all those with political responsibilities in europe hear this call and devote all their energies to finding a way out of the crisis. i know that in the european parliament i do not need to explain the weight and the seriousness of unemployment. every day one of your constituents loses his job, three others fear the same fate. in march, the european council endorsed the initiative of the commission and the czech presidency of the council to devise a summit on the employment aspect of the economic and financial crisis. this has been a central concern of ours since the beginning of the crisis and it inspired our proposal for a european economic recovery plan last december. its implementation at national and european level is already playing a major role in preserving jobs and creating new ones. but it is urgent to assess its impact on employment. we must learn from them and adapt our actions in the months ahead. i still think that employment should have been the subject of a proper european summit, a summit of the 27 heads of state or government. the european council in march, to my great regret, opted for a smaller format. in any case, this is no reason for the commission to lower its ambitions as regards the content of this employment summit and its follow-up during the forthcoming swedish and spanish presidencies. the european dimension is essential for two main reasons. firstly, we must send a clear signal to the citizens that the european union understands the true nature of the crisis, that it is not just a matter for economists and bankers, but that the welfare of citizens, workers and their families is at stake in all parts of europe. our response to the crisis cannot be limited to technical measures to solve regulatory problems. it must be based on our fundamental values: solidarity, social justice, and so on. and our response must be seen as such, as a response that flows from the importance we attach to certain core values. i believe that every crisis also offers opportunities to be seized, the opportunity to renew our european model of a social market economy, also of an ecological economy, the opportunity to show europe's firm will to contribute to the well-being of its citizens. secondly, europe can really make a difference and bring something more. of course - and let us be absolutely frank about this - if the national level holds most of the levers, europe can do a lot. the instruments we have can be designed for maximum efficiency. the european social fund can reach a considerable number of people. it provides training for nine million europeans each year. we can also act as a reception center for ideas, a laboratory. national governments, local authorities, social partners, all stakeholders in europe are working to find solutions to the consequences of unemployment. they need ideas and plans. the european union is the ideal framework for bringing together initiatives, identifying those that can work, and, above all, helping to implement them. this is exactly the process we have been working on with the czech presidency, the future swedish and spanish presidencies and the social partners. mr. president, as you know, the summit has been prepared with an intensive consultation process, built around three preparatory workshops. the input of this parliament into that process has been most valuable. i would particularly like to pay tribute to the personal commitment of the members of the committee on employment and social affairs, and in particular mr andersson as chairman. the workshops organised in madrid, stockholm and prague have proved an excellent focus for the phase of gathering ideas about what works best. i welcome the active involvement of the social partners, as well as the input received from other stakeholders. the european economic and social committee has played an active role in gathering ideas from its national counterparts, which will enrich the debate in fact, i will be meeting the economic and social committee in prague. i would like to point to four key issues that have emerged from these events. first, the top priority must be to keep people in jobs, to do everything possible to prevent a new hike in unemployment. those who lose their jobs must be helped to find another one. this help must be offered immediately: it is no good waiting until people have been unemployed for several months, by which time their skills have decayed and their confidence is at rock bottom. long-term unemployment is a tragedy for those hit, and brings real damage to our social stability and long-term competitiveness. second, the crisis hits the most vulnerable people the hardest people like the low-skilled, new entrants or disabled people, who find it difficult to find jobs at the best of times. now is the time for active inclusion, to step up efforts to give particular support to these groups a very clear echo of the lambert report on the agenda today. third, we must also work to boost opportunities for young people. i know that this is a particular concern of this parliament. we must act to tackle the risk that many young people will finish their education and slide straight into unemployment. young people need our active support to find apprenticeships or further training so that they can find and keep jobs in the future. finally, upgrading skills and matching labour market needs. in an economic downturn, it is all the more important for people to acquire those skills that will improve their employability during but also after the crisis. we need to prepare people for the jobs of the future: green-collar jobs and jobs in other growth sectors, such as the health and the social-care sector. this debate also provides the moment to draw together this parliament's examination of the renewed social agenda. i regard the issues covered in the silva peneda report as an important part of this commission's legacy: an approach of access, solidarity and opportunity to ensure that our policies fit both our enduring core values and the realities of society today. i really want to congratulate mr silva peneda on his great work and i think that our cooperation, namely with my colleague in the commission, vladimír špidla, has been of great importance. this agenda, an agenda of social inclusion and social innovation, seeks to empower and equip europeans to deal with rapidly changing realities shaped by globalisation, technological progress and aging societies and help those having difficulties coping with such changes. we cannot separate our economic and our social agenda: there can be no economic recovery on the foundations of social collapse, just as there can be no social progress in an economic desert. i am grateful for the detailed consideration of these proposals by parliament, on which commissioner špidla will respond in more detail later in the debate. allow me to focus on one issue for which i feel a particular paternity, and that is the european globalisation adjustment fund. i would like to thank parliament for dealing with the commission's proposals for revamping the fund with such speed. the new rules will improve the uptake of financial assistance for the redeployment and retraining of workers who are losing their jobs due to the current recession; more firms will be eligible, and the community budget will shoulder a larger part of the costs. your vote this week is excellent news ahead of the prague employment summit. the employment summit this week gives an opportunity to keep employment at the top of the european agenda where it belongs. i want this summit to yield concrete, tangible results. i am hopeful that it will. and rather than being a one-off event, i also hope that it will be another milestone in an ongoing process that started well before the crisis - a process of cooperation between the commission, the member states and the social partners - which will continue throughout the crisis and beyond. as president of the commission i will take this agenda to the european council in june for the attention of all 27 heads of state and government. it deserves no less. europe is not only an economic and political project. it has always been, and always will be, a social project as well.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. a lot of effort, little effect! this is a summary of the work done to adapt the egf to the requirements of the economic and financial crisis. the sum of the funds allocated to this instrument - namely eur 500 million - appears small in view of the number of workers affected and the scale of the crisis. that would be the wrong conclusion! the egf's achievements, even after restructuring, are seen in the context of the other solidarity and support instruments we have at european level. and here the egf is the youngest child. it was created in 2006 and was intended to send a clear message that globalisation not only has a positive impact on workers but can also have a negative impact on workers through mass redundancies, particularly relocations. so even those who were thrifty at the time put their concerns aside and we opened another fund. the effects of globalisation have now been overtaken by the global financial and economic crisis, and our appropriate response is to adjust the criteria for the egf. the short duration of the egf also posed a problem for our review considerations, as the commission did not have a great deal of experience and we still have difficulty in assessing the effectiveness of the existing arrangements. i would also like to point out at once that the parallelism between the egf and the european social fund should not be lost sight of, especially for the future. the majority of the employment committee voted in favour of a temporary application of the amended regulation, so that the rules now apply to all applications submitted before 31 december 2011 and relate to the content of the workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. this means that from 2012 onwards we will have to rethink the way the european globalisation adjustment fund is financed. the reduction in the number of redundancies in a given region from the initial 1 000 to 500 and the increase in the period of entitlement from 12 to 24 months is undoubtedly a relief in terms of content. this makes it easier to apply and ensures sustainability in supporting our employees until they have found a new job. a very controversial issue was the level of eu funding and co-financing by national budgets. we have now reached a compromise. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial contribution to the programme is not exceeded. i'm very happy about that! we have therefore put a stop to wishful thinking in the committee, because the member state which receives funds for its workers should be aware of its responsibility. the best way to do this is by making a substantial financial contribution. i am particularly pleased that we were able to reach a flat rate of 20% of direct costs in the discussions with the council and the commission. this is exactly what we did a few days ago in the esf committee. there is still plenty of room for future changes and improvements. i thank you for the constructive cooperation at all stages in the committee and then with the council and the commission and i ask you for broad support for this amendment.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. my colleagues from the employment committee have put their finger on the nail in their reports, and have made it clear how necessary it is for the member states and the european union to act together in order to avoid the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis being passed on to those who are most affected, namely those at the bottom of society. that is why i am extremely disappointed that the so-called employment summit on 7 may is actually more or less a farce, and it should be more than embarrassing for all of us who have responsibilities in the european union that such a summit is being held under such a name. i think it is still only a sign that the mainstream political establishment has not yet come to the conclusion that the economic and financial crisis can only be tackled if it is combined with the fight against poverty, social exclusion and job losses, and also with the fight against falling employment standards everywhere. the commission has recently presented dramatic figures on the employment situation in both the european union and the eurozone. we must finally act with consistency! the privatisation of public services of safety systems such as pensions must be stopped. i still do not understand why the commission and the council insisted at the march summit on further privatisation of pension systems in the member states and the creation of pension funds. this is completely counterproductive, it leads to more and more people becoming poor, and it exacerbates the problem of old age poverty. we need poverty-proof social security systems, we need a social pact for europe, as the european trade unions have also called for. the fight against poverty could be a genuinely humanitarian approach to combating the economic and financial crisis globally, and the european union is committed to this!
i have to say, madam president, the european social models are facing major challenges. we need to coordinate our actions at european level, particularly in the light of the current financial crisis. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteurs very much for their good work. we must not only tackle the immediate measures to regulate the financial market, but also coordinate social policy measures and create a social framework. however, the competences of the member states must also be respected. i am in favour of giving priority to job creation and promotion in these times of crisis and also of pushing forward the concretisation of the flexicurity principle. i am, however, opposed to the call for the introduction of minimum wages in all member states, as called for in paragraph 14 of the report by josé silva peneda, whom i would like to thank for his work. this requirement, which concerns a purely national decision, is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. we have very different labour market systems and systems in the member states. i believe that every person must be provided with the necessary care to live a life worthy of humanity. this can also be done by a minimum income with the help of additional state social benefits. where should the minimum wage be set? at the level of romania, for example? there it is at 72 euros a month. i am in favour of a basic income for everyone, but i would point out that it is up to the member states to set limits. i am in favour of a social europe. europe must create a social framework, while respecting the competences of the member states.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, first of all let me express my thanks for this useful debate here. i think the debate was very important and constructive, just with regard to the merits of the issues. i think we are benefiting simply from the fact that this debate is very timely, immediately before the meeting which will take place on thursday in prague. so let me thank you for all your contributions. i think nothing is going to be omitted or forgotten. i think this debate will contribute to the outcome of the summit to the same extent as all the preparatory work that we carried out with the commission and which materialised in the form of those three important workshops in stockholm, madrid and prague. to those who were talking about the size or the scope of the meeting: yes, originally we had intended to have a larger summit, but we have to be aware of the general situation in the area of employment. it is an area where the national competences are very important and the community contribution to this is not the only instrument which we have at stake. i said this in my opening remarks in which i set out some of our hopes for this week’s summit. we should not lose sight of the fact that, notwithstanding the european employment strategy, employment policy remains essentially a member state responsibility. a key element of the strategy in place since 1997 has been the role of mutual learning in the search for a solution to shared problems in the employment area. this approach remains crucial today as we face one of the worst economic crises in recent times and also has its part to play in this week’s summit. but, over and above measures taken at national level, the union itself has a role to play and it is in this context that full use should be made of the available financial instruments, not least the european social fund and the european globalisation fund, in the process of being amended at this moment, with of course parliament’s agreement, to extend its scope to cover job losses resulting from the current crisis. this is exactly what we want to achieve, and i think that we have reason to believe that the outcome of the meeting in prague in the presence of the commission, the presidency, the upcoming presidencies and the social partners will be able to produce results in the form of recommendations and suggestions. then we will again have the opportunity to meet as 27 at the european council in june to generate the decisions. so it is our hope that, with the help of the european social partners and on the basis of the preparatory works in the form of these three workshops as well as this debate here, the european employment summit will succeed in identifying further steps which can be taken as a matter of urgency to respond to the serious situation which currently faces our citizens and to help us to create a union which is stronger and also more competitive in future.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, madam president, in my five years at the commission, i have had many opportunities to meet the rapporteurs and i am therefore not surprised by the quality of their reports. it is clear that we are meeting at a time when the world and europe are facing a crisis. this crisis is often compared to the crisis of the 1930s, and there are often fears that it will have similar consequences, and it is certainly a serious crisis. but compared to the historical one, a lot of things have changed. there is the european union, and the european continent is not full of mutual tension and hatred. there is a european social model which has developed a very complex system of social protection, and this too is a fundamental change. and i think that the will and the ability to act together are also gradually growing, because it is only now, for example, that europe has responded to the crisis in a coordinated way in the economic recovery plan, by using the power of coordination at both community and national level. it is also clear that when we speak of a crisis, we are referring primarily to unemployment and its social consequences. the commission considers the issue of employment and unemployment to be a priority on its agenda and expects it to be a priority on the agenda of the european union as such. many meps criticised the fact that the original intention of the heads of state or government summit had been changed to a different format. the president of the commission clearly stated the position of the commission and the initial idea. but i would like to say that the prague summit is an extraordinary event. it's prepared in a very special way. it will be attended by participants who have never attended similar events before, and it is also a stage on the way to the european council. that means the issue of employment and unemployment will be taken to the level of presidents and presidents. ladies and gentlemen, we have debated a number of specific issues within the social agenda and a number of questions have also arisen in the debate relating to changes in the individual funds. i would like to note that the agenda presented was in principle drawn up before the crisis, but i would nevertheless like to note that it was and is a good basis for facing the crisis. and it's also a good basis for us to act after the crisis. i think the european social model is more than just a response to a crisis, however severe. it's a process and it's a political and social concept for a very long time, and it's the long-term that's built into this social agenda. as regards the european globalisation adjustment fund and also the changes to the european social fund, i would like to thank you for the excellent cooperation, because the way the dialogue was conducted was so constructive that we have the opportunity to achieve the objectives at this meeting, and i consider this extremely important. in the czech language, there is a saying: "who gives quickly, gives twice". i don't know if our ancestors considered this very accurately, but it's clear that reacting quickly is important and helps more than hesitating. there were some specific questions raised in the debate that i would like to answer. the first was a question by mr cottigny, and it concerned 1 may of this year, or may of this year, and the use of the fund. i want to point out that all applications submitted after may 1 this year under the proposal, which is in its final stages, will be processed under the new rules. mep juknevičienė was concerned that the fund's resources often did not reach those in need. i think efficiency should be monitored at all times. from my own experience, i had the opportunity to visit eastern karelia where the fund was used for people who had lost their jobs as a result of the nokia restructuring. the debate showed that the vast majority of those who had lost their jobs considered the aid provided by the egf to be necessary, quick and useful. by the time i got there, 60% of them had found a new job. not all of them, but it was clear that the tool worked. the other issue that was mentioned was the issue of co-financing. of course, mr vlasák is right that co-financing is important, but i think that the increase in the co-financing rate in times of crisis was the right proposal, because some countries in very difficult situations have great difficulty in obtaining co-financing. to make this easier, we suggested 75%. after the debate in parliament, the proposal is finally 65% and i think that's a significant step that will really make it easier to use the fund. i would also like to emphasize what has not been so explicitly emphasized in the debate, although the european social fund is a proven institution that helps millions of people a year and helps millions of people a year very effectively. we've changed the rules for it, too, in consultation with you, and i think that will make it easier to use and more effective. mep lambert stressed the importance of social inclusion. i think it's important to stress that our line is absolutely clear. the european social model is a model of an active society where the key is activity in the labour market. but it's not a model that accepts only those who participate in the labour market, because a large part of our citizens are not participating in the labour market for various reasons, and yet it's very important that they have the opportunity to participate actively in society and to participate actively. mr peneda stressed the importance of social dialogue. i think i can only agree with his view that at this very moment, social dialogue is more important than ever. ladies and gentlemen, let me say that in my view the social and employment agendas are gaining in importance and that this is a process which will gradually be reflected in all the strategies of the european union as well as in all the proposals for changes to the long-term plans and visions of the european union. let me thank you and conclude my speech with my deep conviction that the european social model is a model which requires european integration, not a model which can be developed and maintained only within the boundaries of the national states, and therefore i would like to conclude that in my view europe and european integration are the sine qua non condition for the further development of the european social model.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the egf is also part of the european social model. he rightly said: "if you give a gift quickly, it will have a double effect or double joy". we have had intensive discussions with the commission and i would like to emphasize that in this case we are giving quickly, but also in terms of content and quality. this is the compromise on which i and my colleagues are very proud. i want to summarize a few points from the discussion: as regards the egf, it has been shown that there is broad agreement on the amendment of the 'god-be-thank'. i would like to make a small appeal to the commission: please do not just take the remaining esf resources for the egf, but also find other budgetary resources. the ideal for us social policy-makers would be, of course, to have the esf funds spent entirely on esf purposes and the egf funds coming from other budgetary surpluses, so that we could do double the good for the workers. i would like to say to my colleagues lynne, sinnott and burke, for example: the egf can do many things, but it certainly cannot solve all regional problems. it's obvious, and he shouldn't be. there is also a responsibility of the nation states. and another appeal to the commission: perhaps you cannot use up all the funds allocated to you under the regulation for technical assistance 0.35 . the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the remarks made by mr naranjo escobar are very correct and concern a task for the future. we also need to revise the lisbon strategy in the face of the economic and financial crisis. i would like to make a point to mr hughes: an employment summit would be nice, but i will be honest with you: i am also in favour of a troika meeting where something sensible comes out. we do not need a summit for the sake of a summit. we need good results, and fast!
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not have any specific figures on the loss of jobs due to the crisis, but i am certainly well aware of what is happening in the air transport sector. all my work as commissioner responsible for transport is directed towards supporting this transport and it is no coincidence that this session will also discuss a question, that of slots, the aim of which is to avoid, during the crisis, a worsening of the situation of airlines and this also means trying to reduce job losses, in short to contain employment levels within the european union in the air transport sector.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, as you know, the berlin-palermo railway line is one of the 30 priority projects of the transeuropean transport network and the brenner base tunnel project is the central link in this priority project. the commission supports this key element of the priority project which will link the railway networks on both sides of the alps by a high-capacity, high-speed line, intended in particular for freight transport. the project will thus contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market and environmental objectives as well as to the economic recovery. in this way the commission wants to give a concrete answer to the expectations of the citizens, which is why we accelerated the granting of funding at the end of last year, signing the authorization for a financing of 786 million euro for priority project no 1. the coordinator karen van miert has been following the project since 2005, with positive results, i think. we have now launched a consultation of the member states of the european parliament to renew the mandate of the european coordinators to cover the period 2009-2013. this will enable them to continue their work, particularly the monitoring of priority projects. on 22 march 2009 the austrian authorities submitted their multiannual infrastructure programming, which includes the financing of the brenner base tunnel. on 17 april 2009, following the conclusion of the environmental impact assessment, they issued the building permit for the project. the italian authorities submitted the basic tunnel project to the interministerial committee for economic planning, known as cipe, for approval in may. i have spoken to minister matteoli and he confirms to me that the italian state is prepared to pursue this objective and therefore to finance the project, and i believe that the austrian and italian authorities are in full agreement on this. as regards priority project 17, the high-speed link strasbourg-vienna, which forms part of the paris-strasbourg-stockholm-vienna-bratislava railway line, is proceeding satisfactorily in all the member states concerned, france, germany, austria and slovakia. by 2015, most of the 831 km between strasbourg and vienna, namely the strasbourg-stockholm and linz-vienna sections, will be completed. the stuttgart-ulm section, which represents the most important chokepoint, will be completed by 2020. the financing protocol was signed on 2 april this year. at present, the most complex section appears to be the cross-border section in bavaria between munich and salzburg. the german government is currently conducting a review of its multiannual programming, so we will have to wait until the end of this year before we can start discussions on this important matter. the strasbourg-vienna section will cost eur 10 billion and the priority project a total of eur 13.5 billion. i believe that this information can be useful and can be exhaustive of the demands made by mr posselt's question.
i am very grateful to you, commissioner, for that very good and detailed reply and also for your excellent work on these two important projects which intersect in munich. i just have two quick follow-up questions: first, there is a rumor that the brenner base tunnel could be reduced to passenger traffic. can you rule that out? secondly, in austria and stuttgart a great deal is being done for the main highways from strasbourg to vienna and budapest. but we have the problem of the ring road around munich, the connection between munich airport and the line from munich to mühldorf, freilassing and salzburg, the chemical triangle and the line through mühldorf. i would like to stress this to you, because progress is still very slow.
the commission has already done so. the fact that wine is a very sensitive product is something you have learned in recent years. we are talking a lot today about the liberalization of the wine market. you talk about opening up the world market. i sometimes wonder who's guiding who around here. our wine-making tradition is rooted in europe. our traditions and our regional characteristics are what underpin our european wine, and they should also guide us in the reflections we are now making on the wine market. i was very struck by the fact that a committee has just introduced into the wine market rules things which we have not discussed at all in parliament! the question, madam commissioner, is: what national and regional regulatory possibilities are still open? what restrictions or prohibitions can the member states impose on their wine-growing areas at the lowest level - and that is what we are talking about here, since we are not talking about wines of origin and wines of provenance, but about the lowest level of wine - at all? for example, the prohibition on mixing red and white wines would also be a regional national prohibition. will this be possible in the future for this lower tier of wines? or a ban on the indication of the vine variety and the vintage: this is another problem for us, because we want to distinguish our wines, the inferior wines, from those with designation of origin. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the lack of a single market. they are occupied with our traditional production, and we will continue to attach great importance to this, commissioner! we ask for your support.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. during this sixth term, turkey has been a priority on our eu agenda. turkey had made enormous progress in reform before the accession negotiations began, and the eu has recognised this. today the mood has changed a little. we are increasingly concerned about the progress of the democratization process in turkey. the freedom of the press and the protection of minorities, as well as the reform of the judiciary, must also be kept under constant review. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the ergenekon process in turkey is not politicised. the fact is, arrests and searches are taking place. however, any preposterous remarks should be avoided. careful reporting also plays an important role. the kurdish question has made important progress. the solution of the kurdish problem is central to the process of democratization and the protection of minorities. i am also a little concerned about the current attitude of some eu leaders. the ambiguous signals from the eu also mean that the democratic process in turkey is going awry from time to time. i would like to remind you once again that a clear commitment by the eu to full membership for turkey would give a huge boost to the reform process. otherwise, fundamentalism and nationalism will always find new breeding grounds, and the kurdish problem will worsen. the common objective is to make turkey a more modern, stable and prosperous democracy, based on a secular state and a pluralist society. this is not only in turkey's interest but also an important strategic interest of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is the last plenary session of this parliamentary term. mr öger has just said that turkey was a priority. i have had the privilege of working on this subject for the last few years as rapporteur for my group and i must say that i am very pleased that in this last session we are returning once again to the heart of the debate, namely the question of democracy in turkey. it is the first copenhagen criterion that is at issue. there are different opinions on how turkey has developed. but i think there's one thing they agree on: the reformist in turkey seems to be exhausted, and the impression at the end of this electoral period is that turkey is further away from attaining accession eligibility than at the beginning of both the commission's mandate and the legislature of this parliament. the liberal group considers that the problems of freedom of the press and freedom of expression are particularly important in this context. you know that you can't watch youtube in turkey. the rights of journalists, publishers, publicists, columnists and authors are restricted by certain legal provisions. the commission has thankfully pointed out in its progress report that this is a problem. these problems have, in the view of many observers, become more acute. i would be grateful if the commission could say whether the problems have worsened or whether they have improved. that would be really surprising. the protection of religious minorities is also included, and the safeguarding of women's rights are all important issues. however, the focus at the moment is on the issue of press freedom, the revoking of press accreditations of critical journalists by the prime minister, the partly unjustified arrests of critical journalists and publishers in the course of the investigations against the undoubtedly criminal ergenekon network, the takeover of control of the atv-sabah media group by the scarlet holding owned or controlled by the prime minister's son-in-law, the prime minister's public calls for a boycott of the media and the conviction of the doğan media group to a fine of 380 million euros with the aim of driving it out of business for reporting on the lighthouse oil spill and its benefit to the akp. this is not just a question of press freedom, but it is also a deterrent for investors who have doubts about the rule of law in turkey. turkey is an important neighbour, an important, respected nato partner. we want to continue to support turkey, that is the view of my group. but we believe that much more needs to be done here, that the turkish government must demonstrate its serious will to stop violating the fundamental rights of europe as it is doing at the moment. we would be grateful if this could be documented convincingly in the next election period. i think that we should not have this debate in strasbourg, but in brussels.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. a 14-year-old boy is beaten into a coma by a special operations police officer in hakkari. a 14-year-old boy drowns after falling into a river while fleeing police gas bombs. on 4 april, two people were killed by police during a demonstration near urfa. currently, more than 185 minors are in prison in diyarbakir. hundreds of democratically elected dtp politicians and activists are being detained, including three vice-presidents of the party. there are more than 207 cases against dtp mps. this is my assessment of the current democratic process in turkey. and this list could easily be continued. the crackdown began shortly after the dtp won a landslide victory in the march 29 local elections in the southeast of the country, almost doubling its number of mayors, while the ruling akp suffered heavy losses in its hotly contested kurdish region. for me, there is a connection between the electoral success of the dtp and the wave of repression against it. the government also said that the extension of the dtp's electoral success to the border with armenia was considered a security risk. instead of seeing this clear electoral vote for what it is, a clear message from the kurds to find a solution within the system, they are trying to push back against this political success, if necessary with police force. unfortunately, i do not see the will and determination of the much-vaunted acp to develop and implement a comprehensive strategy to resolve this conflict which has been going on for decades. as you all know, there has been no substantial progress since the last progress report in the area of freedom of the press and of expression, recognition of the kurdish reality, the rights of religious minorities and the civilization of the military. the ruling acp must finally carry out a real constitutional reform and set in motion a dynamic that will renew the country in a democratic and legal way and accept its pluralistic and multiethnic and multicultural social reality. otherwise there can be no real democratization of turkey. that should be clear to all of us here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say a few words about joost lagendijk's contribution. we too, of course, see the positive diplomatic role of turkey in relation to armenia, in relation to the middle east. but diplomacy is one thing, and democracy is another. we are very concerned about the actions of prime minister erdogan against the ahmed doğan publishing group. even the "spiegel", which has nothing to do with doğan or springer, writes about a private revenge campaign by erdogan against doğan. i have just mentioned the commission's progress report. i would like to clarify this question to the commission. is the commission more or less concerned about freedom of expression and the press in turkey than it was at the time of the publication of the progress report? if not, why isn't she worried anymore? if so, what specific measures does the commission intend to take? what is the importance of the issue of freedom of the press and of expression for the ongoing accession negotiations? as i said, we are at the heart of the debate on the first copenhagen criterion, the political one.
the commission has already done so. i think that in this debate we are too narrowly reducing the question of animal welfare to the question 'anaesthesia: yes or no?' the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so slaughter is the high art of slaughtering without causing any additional suffering to the animals, and the question of stunning in slaughterhouses is not just about 'stunning: yes or no?' but also about the treatment of animals during transport and in the slaughterhouses. i agree with mr parish that when a product is mined, it should be marked so that consumers know what they are buying and what they are supporting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the reform of the european union is difficult enough, but the reform of the european parliament is even more difficult, as we saw in the debate on the amendment of the rules of procedure and in the work of mr richard corbett. i thank richard corbett for this really great effort to bring together the various interests and to bring this reform of our rules of procedure to the plenary. the socialist group will support this report. we are waiting for the lisbon treaty, then parliament will have much more legislative powers, and we must prepare ourselves to put legislation at the centre of our work and to treat own-initiative reports as secondary. legislation is paramount! we also need to be more solid in our work around the world. parliament's delegations' visits to different countries and continents must be linked to parliament's specialised committees. if a delegation has a subject such as climate change or social protection, it is usually the experts from the expert committee. i welcome the fact that we're making our debates more attractive: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that's good! and the cooperation of the committees, these joint committees, is a test run, because the previous practice was not satisfactory either. the advisory committee had virtually no chance, let's be honest! the test of joint meetings of two committees is therefore a new attempt to find something better. this reform must be! it is also good that we do it before the election and not postpone it to the next election period. thank you again to richard corbett and all those who have worked with him.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. gérard onesta said that his report was not a revolution, but it was an important reform that strengthened both the citizens and the committee on petitions. the right to petition is a right of the citizen and some improvements are being made here which also encourage citizens to put such questions to parliament. i also think it is right that the chairman of a committee does not decide whether a petition is admissible. although i am the chairman of a committee, i also agree that if a quarter of the members think that a subject should be discussed, then it should be discussed. i would like to correct gérard onesta's language: the european citizens' initiative is not a petition, it is an aliud. it is a european popular demand, a right of a different kind. it is not addressed to parliament either, but to the commission, and we should not mix that up. this has been a major concern of civil society representatives. this will probably be the last report by mr gérard onesta in this house. i would like to thank him very much for his excellent work in many respects, both as vice-president and as a member of our committee. i also want to mention the agora, this forum of parliament with civil society, which will be history, which is making history and is a very important instrument. we therefore support this onesta report and thank you again for your good cooperation! (applause from the centre)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by petya stavreva, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (com ((2009) 0038 c6-0051/2009 2009/0011 ((cns)) (a6-0259/2009), the report by eugenijus maldeikis, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a programme to stimulate economic growth by providing financial support to the community for projects in the energy sector (com ((2009) 3500 c6-0049/2009 2009/0010 ((cod)) (a26-01/2009)) and the report by the committee on budgets, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending the multiannual financial framework for the financial year 2006/07 (com (2009) 0271-080)) and amending the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (com (2008-0271-06-060) c7-006-06-09).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. immediately after the agreement on the 2009 budget, the commission presented a proposal to amend the multiannual financial framework for the financing of trans-european energy networks and broadband infrastructure projects under the european economic recovery programme. we must surely say in retrospect: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, it must be said that an agreement with the council on both the food facility and these elements of the recovery package taken together would have been difficult to reach at the close of the 2009 budget. with this original proposal to provide 5 billion in two tranches - 3.5 billion in 2009 and 2.5 billion in 2010 - by means of a revision of the financial perspective, the commission has also learned from the budgetary disaster of the proposal on the food facility. the commission's proposal at that time was not in line with the budgetary agreements. this is to be noted again. i also welcome the fact that the commission has taken up the suggestion from the committee on budgets that we made in the first debate, namely to keep the revision more limited and to keep what concerns rural areas and broadband cabling and the modernisation of these structures in rural areas in heading 2 of the agricultural budget and not to transfer it to heading 1a. this was the adoption of a proper proposal which came from this house. in the second round we saw that it was the council that originally said: the commission cannot submit this proposal for the food facility, but it is in principle a revision. the council simply wanted to get around the budgetary conditions and agreements. we have correctly corrected this in the course of the negotiations and in the trilogue of 2 april. i believe that we have taken the first step in the right direction with the overall proposal to finance 2.6 billion in the first stage, to increase the appropriations for heading 1a by 2 billion in 2009 and to reduce the appropriations for heading 2 by the same amount, and to allocate 600 million from 2009 for rural development. we will endeavour to secure the remaining 2.4 billion by balancing it through the concertation of the 2010 and, where appropriate, 2011 budgetary procedures, by all and i quote because it is important by using all the appropriations provided for in the relevant legal framework, without affecting the allocation of the programmes decided by the co-decision procedure or the annual budgetary procedure. it was also important to us that commitments made across the various headings were not affected and reduced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it also shows that what we said in the european parliament's plenary session on 25 march on the review of the multiannual financial framework is all the more urgent. we call on the commission to take all these considerations on flexibility, on improved negotiation in the framework of budgetary policy, on an annual and multiannual basis, into account when considering the revision of the multiannual financial planning in the autumn. the council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take it up with the council. we need more flexibility, more flexibility in the multiannual budgetary procedure. the commission is here called upon to draw on the experience of the last two or three years and to present appropriate proposals in the autumn. we expect it!
member of the commission. − mr president, the current economic downturn requires a stimulus also at eu level. this has been our common conviction since the crisis began last year. in november 2008 the european commission proposed a comprehensive european economic recovery plan, which was endorsed by heads of state and government in december. building on this, a ‘five billion package’ to inject immediate stimulus into the eu economy was proposed in january. the package directs that stimulus to key objectives, such as broadband development, energy security and low-carbon technologies. the commission very much welcomes the agreement found on the package, after difficult but constructive discussions, within a very tight timeframe. i would like to thank parliament for its support for our proposal, as well as its flexibility and sense of compromise shown in the course of interinstitutional discussions. this case shows that the eu is able to react quickly if a crisis requires an immediate response. as regards the budget side – and now i am speaking on behalf of vice-president kallas – the commission can accept the solution as now agreed by the three institutions, though its approach differs from our initial proposal of december 2008. we are confident that the projects will be implemented as scheduled. i would also like to confirm that the commission has taken good note of parliament’s expectations with regard to the budget review and the assessment of the functioning of the interinstitutional agreement. as you know, we are working on these issues and will come forward with our conclusions in the autumn or, at the latest, by the end of the year. i will now turn to my subject: energy. the regulation on energy projects constitutes a significant tool to achieve two goals: responding to the key security issues and environmental challenges in the energy sector whilst at the same time contributing to the recovery of our economy. the package is also an example of solidarity within the european union. in particular, the gas crises needed a quick response. never before has the european union agreed to dedicate such a significant amount to key energy projects. i know that some of you would have preferred to see more measures on renewables and energy efficiency projects in the package, but i believe that the compromise finally found on this subject is a good one. the commission provides reassurance in a comprehensive declaration that it will reconsider the situation in 2010, referring expressly to the option of suggesting using uncommitted funds for measures in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. the declaration was sent to parliament and will be published in the official journal, together with the regulation, so i will not read it out here. i welcome the fact that the principle of proposing new projects, if we identify serious risks in implementing the current projects, is also referred to in the recitals and an article of the regulation. in addition, i can assure you that we will swiftly go ahead with the many other initiatives in the area of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, as they are referred to in our declaration. after the successful and rapid conclusion of the legislative procedure, the commission will focus on implementation of the package. i can tell you that, with respect to the energy projects, we intend to launch the call for proposals by the end of may, and i expect first decisions on support by the end of this year. i would like to thank particularly the rapporteurs, ms stavreva, mr maldeikis and mr böge, for their engagement in finding a quick solution to this very important proposal.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am only going to touch upon the part of this package which relates to rural development. first of all, like mr piebalgs, i would like to thank parliament for its cooperation, especially the committee on agriculture and rural development. there has been a very good and constructive dialogue over the past month and it is obvious that your support in this issue is crucial for a successful outcome. legislation must be adopted as soon as possible so that this money can be invested in rural development in 2009 and the money can be spent as well, i.e. both programming and expenditure of the money. the final compromise left us with a bit less money for rural development than we had wanted. we had initially wanted eur 1.5 billion and we ended up with eur 1.02 billion. the scope for investment in broadband in rural areas has been extended, and member states will now have full flexibility in the choice between broadband and new challenges. i think this is quite a good idea, so you do not limit people that see special difficulties in the new challenges in some parts of the european union. the commission also takes good note of the amendments. you request an extension of the scope of eligible broadband operations to soft measures such as training in ict and investments in ict-related services and facilities. i would like to point out that these investments and activities are already widely supported within both the structural funds and the rural development funding. focus is put on broadband, because of the fact that it is considered to boost technological development and growth in the best possible way. as regards promotion of the recovery package, the commission agrees that this is needed, but it can be done within the existing tools already in our toolbox in rural development. the current policy framework also allows money to already be spent on projects in 2009. we have also studied the proposal to already include in the financing the eur 250 million which were added to the 2009 budget for rural development by parliament in its final vote on the budget last year. however, this proposal was not part of the agreement on the financing of the recovery package reached in the trialogue discussions. in order to avoid any delay in the final adoption of this package, i believe we should take the opportunity to come back later this year when the rest of the financing of the recovery package has to be agreed. as this is the last meeting here in the plenary before the elections to this parliament, i would like to express my sincere thanks for your very good cooperation and exchanges of views – sometimes with lots of patriotism and with lots of dynamism, but it has been a pleasure. to those of you who are not running for re-election, i would like to say that it has been a pleasure working with you. (applause)
thank you so much, commissioner mariann fischer boel. it is very kind of you to mention this. it was and is always a pleasure to work with you and with your colleagues in the commission. of course, there are some differences, but with you and with commissioner piebalgs it has always been a pleasure, and i want to thank you very much on behalf of parliament and also personally.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is right that the european union is trying to make its own contribution in this great financial and economic crisis. it also has the potential - particularly in the case of rural broadband - to make a real contribution to overcoming the digital divide in society, giving more people the opportunity to participate and to strengthen the internal cohesion of the european union. but as a budgetary politician i would point out that, on the one hand, such a programme is effectively announced to the public, but on the other hand it is not clear where the money is really going to come from. that's a little far-fetched. i cannot support this, and when the council takes such decisions, and when the commission, through mr barroso, puts something like this into practice, then we must take serious care to ensure that it is clear where the money comes from. but this is a really convincing policy that we can also put before the citizens. at the moment, the money is not here. the member states must also take action once again so that we can really make it clear that this is a contribution to a better structural policy and to greater solidarity in europe. and then you have to work together to make it happen.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this so-called economic recovery programme is not a masterpiece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the rural areas. it also means a shift from agricultural budgets to rural development. and, commissioner, it does not lead to independent regional development for rural areas either, but it follows a countervailing logic. the member states are primarily responsible for setting up compensation programmes. in germany, the milk fund sector is concerned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's milk market is not affected by the crisis. now, 100 million euros are to be used to compensate for the damage. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are now less than two hours away from the final decision on the european economic recovery plan. it took us five months - it is almost superfluous to mention that this was due to the council's ingenuity - five months to reach agreement on the package now before us. if we all took the title of this package seriously, we should have been much faster. the package is fine in itself, no doubt, but i have serious doubts whether it can really help europe's economic recovery in the current crisis. can the money actually be spent on the projects in the timeframe? it is good that the colleagues from the committee on industry had these doubts and negotiated the commission's declaration to put unspent funds into energy efficiency projects. the 2.6 billion euro which is about to be decided on has therefore a chance of being used wisely. but will we also be able to agree with the council in the autumn on the remaining 2.4 billion euros that are still missing from the 5 billion recovery plan? the 5 billion euro over two years is an expression of european solidarity. i'll see you later. much more effective help for the european economy as a whole, however, comes from the common regional and structural policy: 38 billion euros this year alone! these funds are our european economic engine!
i have to say, madam president, dear count of baringdorf, the flying saucer has at least caused my small village of 450 inhabitants to work full time to solve the broadband gap. and i think in three to four months at the latest, we'll have that. mrs. stavreva, thank you very much. that was a good report. ladies and gentlemen, for 15 years i have been able to work in this building on the development of agriculture, perhaps helping to shape it, regardless of the size of the holding or its legal form. now it's time to do something different. i thank all my colleagues, officials, the commissioner and especially you, mrs fischer boel.
i have to say, madam president, you missed me at catch the eye. i am sure that is your right too, but then i will make a personal statement according to the rules of procedure.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the lack of a unified european financial supervisory system and the failure of the system at international and european level are part of the reasons for the current financial and economic crisis. we must therefore ensure that the information is brought together in a coordinated way and that the various organisations exchange information in order to prevent another crisis from occurring in the first place. the good supervision in some member states needs to be optimized for all 27 member states in order to ensure good information transfer. the first thing that is needed to ensure this is financial resources. we must solve the crisis now and provide the means now. this is precisely what is happening in the dossier on the community programme to support specific activities in the field of financial services, accounting and auditing. i welcome the fact that the commission has responded to the european parliament's requests and proposes to provide financial support to the community in the financial services sector and in the areas of accounting and auditing, as well as to the activities of certain european and international bodies, in order to ensure the effectiveness of community policies in this field. the aim is to establish a new community programme which will make it possible to make direct contributions from the community budget to the financing of these individual bodies. such co-financing of the committees, the supervisory authority, can go a long way towards ensuring that they carry out their tasks independently and efficiently. it is necessary to ensure that sufficient money and flexibility is included in this programme to meet the needs of the level 3 committees in particular, they have been partially named: cesr, ceiops and cebs . the commission proposal was 40% below what the level 3 committees considered necessary for the next four years. the council was not very keen to increase the budget substantially, although it was always clear and unequivocal in its call for a strong improvement in financial market supervision. however, at the end of the negotiations we came to just under 40 million over four years: 500 000 for the level 3 committees already for 2009, and another 38.7 million from 2010 to 2013, of which 13.5 million is earmarked for these committees. as regards the bodies in the field of accounting and auditing, the original commission proposal was too soft in its call for reform of this organisation. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the budget, and that it has been able to make some improvements in this area, and that after the trilogue negotiations we have reached an acceptable result as regards the various levels of funding and the periods of funding. in the light of the latest findings of the de larosière group and the report, there were also good reasons for the commission to present a report and the necessary legislative proposals to the european parliament and the council by 1 july 2010 on the further reform of the regulation and supervision of european financial markets in order to adapt this programme to the changes that have taken place. in particular, in the context of the current financial crisis, it is imperative to give the highest priority to the development of supervisory convergence and cooperation in the field of financial services in the context of accounting and auditing. i said 14 days ago in the solvency ii plenary that it was important for europe to send signals that would be heard in the world. i believe that we have sent signals in recent weeks - including mr karas' report to the rating agencies - that we can be taken seriously by our partners operating worldwide and that we are not mere passengers, as we have been for the past decades. this signal is good. i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs, mrs bowles and mrs berès. as this is my last speech in this parliament, i should like to thank the commission, all the members and the council for the good cooperation. i am pleased to note that this cooperation has produced a very positive result. the czech presidency of the council decided 30 minutes ago to accept the outcome of our trilogue negotiations. we have a proposal here which we can approve today, and i am sure that the major groups in this parliament will also approve these proposals. thank you again for your cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the financial crisis has made it clear that the financial market framework of the european union needs to be redesigned. my group supports the proposals developed in the trilogue negotiations, in particular the proposal for a new own funds directive for banks. risk-taking will increase, the misuse of special purpose vehicles will disappear and the quality of structured products will improve because of the 5% deduction for securitisations. however, i regret that the rules on interbank loans below maturity are very restrictive and that silent partnership contributions are only accepted as full-value equity for a transitional period. progress in the restructuring of the financial market framework is good, but it is not yet sufficient. so the work will continue. i hope that in future the banks will be more cooperative in this work than in the past few months, when i have seen them more in the role of a brake than a partner looking for forward-looking solutions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to say first of all that with this second project we are discussing today we have started to put financial market regulation on a normal footing. the financial crisis is partly due to market failure and partly to regulatory failure. we have a list of measures that absolutely need to be regulated by the rating agencies. we have taken decisions on the equity directive, on manager's remuneration, on hedge funds, on accounting rules and on the european supervisory structure. we are at the second point today. it was negotiated here on the basis of a committee vote, not the normal first reading procedure, but by agreement between the council, the commission and parliament before parliament's first reading. mr karas has done a great deal of work here, and i should like to expressly acknowledge that. but i have a number of colleagues who disagree with me on two points. and this concerns first of all the risk reserve. the securitisation market and the financial market crisis were created in part because financial market products were created without any risk of their own. that is why banks no longer trust each other, because no one has securities for which he is willing to take risks. here, five percent is suggested. i think that 10% is much more appropriate and that is why i have tabled an amendment to that effect. i am sure that if the council accepts all the other things, it will also have to consider this 10 per cent. we as a parliament have a responsibility to give citizens additional assurances that such a global financial market crisis cannot happen again. i therefore propose and ask that we accept the compromise worked out by mr karas, with the exception of the 10% reserve and the continued credit of silent partnership contributions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. if you want to drain a swamp, you can't ask the fattest frogs how they'd like it! that is precisely the problem with the report on the equity directive which is on the table today. if we do not want to see bad banks in 10 or 20 years' time, we must encourage banks and financial institutions to take on a business risk today, which is worth taking on if they continue to trade in critical products. five percent is not worth mentioning! commissioner mccreevy brought in 15%, then let the industry negotiate him down to 5%, and the council went along with it - this european parliament has not really made a good impression! we german social democrats will vote for a higher deductible, just as we will vote for the continuation of silent deposits, because it is an unfair competition policy to attack a business model here and has nothing to do with bank restructuring. i hope that we will reach a sensible decision here and that after 7 june we will definitely have a parliament that speaks with more courage and with more courage a clear language in the reorganization of the financial market.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly may i thank in particular the rapporteurs, mr karas and mr hoppenstedt, and others for their dedication in finding compromises in these two particular areas. as regards the hoppenstedt report, the positive outcome of coreper this morning paves the way for an adoption at first reading. an agreement on this strategic initiative is very welcome because it sends the right signal: a signal of our determination to respond to the financial crisis, to strengthen financial supervision and to improve the standard assessing process for financial reporting and auditing. but this is only a first step in a very long process. in the months to come, i look forward to continuing this work with you in the new parliament. on securitisation, we all agree that the 5% retention requirement is a first step. the basel committee will work on quantitative retention. this has been required by the g20. the european union is ahead of the curve, and we will contribute to bringing about further consistency at global level. let me just make a point concerning securitisation. mrs bowles made a pretty strong contribution in this regard. she is very much for securitisation and pointed out the good aspects of it and the amount of money that is contributed to the capital markets for small and medium-sized enterprises and to lenders at large in all member states of the european union. in case there is any impression that i do not see the benefits of securitisation over the years, may i say that i certainly do! in my previous capacity, and long before i came here, i was aware of the benefits of securitisations. however, the issue is what proportion the originating securitiser should hold in that particular matter. i accept what mrs bowles said: that in future a holding of whatever percentage will attract a capital charge. one cannot be certain as to when the current financial crisis will end. but, irrespective of when that end is going to be, i think we can be absolutely certain in years to come that financial institutions will be required, at all levels, to hold more significant and more quality capital against their lending. i will not be here – but many of you will – but, whatever the end is, that will be the inevitable outcome of this particular financial crisis – not immediately, not maybe in the medium term, but in the longer term that will be a certainty. if i looked into my crystal ball, that is what i would see in years to come. so it is the percentage which is being debated. people know my views on this. i have held very strong views on this for a long period of time. various amendments have been put forward during the council of ministers stage and with the european parliament about different ‘outs’ on one thing and another, which my officials, at my request, are very, very strongly against, because i strongly believe in the very simple proposition that 5% of something is better than 55% of zero. the more outs that there are – we can have 5%, 10%, 15% – 15% of zero is still zero. that is why i welcome the opportunity that the commission in its report by the end of this year will come back to this particular matter in order to ensure that the wording is fairly tightened up. i am strongly of that view because i do not wish to see particular outs. but i readily appreciate what mrs bowles and others have said regarding the merits of securitisations for the capital market. i hope i have never given the impression that i did not. finally, may i, too, join with the president in wishing those members who are retiring well in their future careers, whatever they might be. i have known most of them in some capacity or other in my five years here and i appreciate their contributions, even though i have not always agreed with them. i suppose i should not single out any one person, but i would like to make special mention of mr purvis in this regard. i always found his advice to be wise, measured, considered and not dogmatic, and i wish him, in particular, a very successful future.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i have already expressed my opinion on certain matters in the first reading of the speeches. but i want to say again very clearly that the world - and that is our partners in america, in china and elsewhere - is looking to the european union, to the council, to the commission and to the parliament to see how we respond to the crisis. and i've already pointed out that there's already a reaction, as you can see in certain rules that are being re-established in america, to the reinsurance policy and more like that, the collaterals, there's something moving. and the old wisdom is that if we europeans have nothing concrete in hand, the other partners will not react. we have taken decisions here last month and this month, and we have set things in motion and, together with the council, we have found sensible solutions. i should like to take this opportunity to thank once again the commission, which has sometimes been a bit cumbersome, and the council, which has tried to find sensible solutions in night meetings and in many trilogues, because they have now agreed to the sensible compromise we have found. and i would also like to thank my colleagues in the econ committee, mrs berès, mrs bowles and others, but also the staff who have to bear a great deal of the burden. and i think it is important to point out, perhaps again, that i was involved in the creation of the european single market, in the discussion as coordinator for the introduction of the euro and so on. these are stations that have, of course, shaped this work and also the policy here. i would like to thank all the members, the commission and the council, for the good cooperation which they have shown. i wish all those who do not volunteer to come back here all the best for the future. there are many tasks, including the task of communicating how important the european union is, how important tasks the european parliament is performing. and this is also important for the elections in germany on june 7th, whereas in other countries it is from june 4th to 7th, that people pay attention to how important our work is. i hope that there will be a large turnout! i would like to thank you all once again and wish you all the best for the future, because this is my last speech, as i said.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have serious objections. this house has voted with a three-quarters majority in favour of kosovo's independence, as have the commission and almost all the member states. i find that unacceptable!
chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the reform of the european union is difficult enough, but the reform of the european parliament seems to be even more difficult. i must say to mrs frassoni, however, that this reform process has now taken two and a half years. we had a reform group that monica frassoni herself was a member of. our committee has followed the conclusions of the reform group point by point. that is to say, we are presenting to the plenary something that has been discussed, debated and decided for two and a half years. there is therefore no reason to refer this point back. we should conclude this act today and prepare for the new electoral period with many improvements to our work. so i vote against the motion by monica frassoni.
i am not going to go into detail. in a few weeks' time - between 4 and 7 june - the citizens of the european union will elect the european parliament. for the first time, 375 million people from all 27 member states will be able to participate in the european elections together. for many of you, this is the last week in strasbourg. it is also the last week in which i can preside over plenary sessions. we all know that democracy also draws its strength from constant change. this is true of all of us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we've accomplished a great deal together. we have been successful, not only in the last two and a half years of my mandate, but also in the mandate of my predecessor josep borrell fontelles. what we have achieved in the last five years is the achievement of all of us. i would like to thank you all very much for your great commitment and your passion for our common european cause. as the european parliament, we are the directly elected representatives of the citizens of the european union. we all, ladies and gentlemen, embody the diversity of our european continent and reflect through our political families the diversity of convictions and views. more than that: a few days ago we celebrated the fifth anniversary of the historic enlargement of the european union, the reunification of our continent on the basis of our common values. 'we are united in our happiness', as the berlin declaration of 25 march 2007 so beautifully put it. (applause from the centre) the successful integration of the members of the new member states, which joined in 2004 and 2007, and the adaptation of our parliamentary work to a larger and more diverse european parliament are certainly among the significant achievements of this electoral period. we, the 785 members of parliament, have learned to approach each other, to learn from each other and thus to work better together. the european parliament has gained experience, strength and cultural wealth in this period. ladies and gentlemen, new members will soon be bringing life to the work of the european parliament. they will join those who are re-elected in june. i hope that we will continue to have the respect for one another that unites us across all political and national boundaries. in my work over the past two and a half years i have been guided by this basic feeling of parliamentary work. i am grateful for the support, encouragement, and advice that i have received. the president is responsible for ensuring that all the rules of the european parliament are respected and that these rules are applied equally to all members and that the dignity of our parliament is always preserved. that's what i've been trying to do. (applause from the centre) and i would say to those who come to parliament: we are only convincing if we uphold the dignity of this european parliament and always defend it on the basis of our common law! today, very few decisions are taken in the european union without the express consent and participation of the european parliament. the european parliament has increasingly become the key venue for political compromise at european level. this has been demonstrated in recent years, for example, by the services directive and the chemicals regulation (reach). the european parliament's involvement in the preparation of the 2007-13 financial perspective was also pioneering. the european parliament has ensured that the necessary financial resources are made available for programmes to promote the younger generation, such as erasmus. we have also put the fight against climate change at the top of the political agenda. the fact that we have reached an acceptable outcome has given the european union great credibility for the negotiations at the copenhagen conference in december. today we are no longer alone in our quest: the new american administration under president barack obama is in the process of supporting many of our proposals. now it's our job to get the other partners in the world to do the same. we often hear that others take the lead. we have taken the lead in the fight against climate change, and we can be proud of that, ladies and gentlemen! (applause from the centre) similarly, the reform of financial market regulation currently under way at european level has in many respects been undertaken at the initiative of the european parliament. since 2002, the european parliament has called for better supervision and regulation of financial markets. all legislative procedures for better banking and financial supervision as well as for the regulation of hedge funds and manager salaries should be completed as soon as possible. the european parliament has already given many important signals with its decisions. however, much work still lies ahead and the newly elected european parliament will have to continue this work with commitment and determination in order to find ways out of the crisis and to safeguard the competitiveness of the european economy in the context of globalisation on the basis of the social market economy as defined in the treaty of lisbon. the overwhelming majority of the european parliament sees itself as the driving force behind the process of european unification. over the past two and a half years, we have revitalised the debate on institutional reform and advanced the process leading to the conclusion of the lisbon treaty on reform. we have succeeded in ensuring that the basic principles we have always advocated are also preserved in the lisbon treaty. the lisbon treaty sets out the key reforms to make the european institutions more democratic, transparent and capable of acting. we should all work together to ensure that the treaty of lisbon can enter into force at the beginning of next year. we hope for a positive result in the czech senate in prague today. (applause from the centre) the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is celebrating its 30th anniversary as the directly elected democratic institution of the european union. the european parliament is at the heart of a european parliamentary democracy of which we could only dream in 1979. together we have advanced parliamentary democracy in the european union and beyond. the european parliament and national parliaments are partners today. our work is complementary. we have deepened our cooperation with national parliaments and have held regular meetings to jointly advance the important current issues. at the same time, the development of our relations with the parliaments of third countries has been a key concern of our efforts. today the european parliament is a respected partner in the world, an advocate for human rights and democracy. and that's how it has to be in the future. ladies and gentlemen, i have made every effort to ensure that the european parliament is represented by its president and by representatives of the political groups in the bodies which are important for shaping our common future. we can see that the president of the european parliament now participates in the annual meetings of the g8 parliamentary presidents as well as in summits with third countries such as eu-africa, eu-latin america and eu-usa. i will be attending the troika summit on employment in prague tomorrow morning and the eastern partnership launch summit tomorrow afternoon. it is also an achievement of this electoral period that the role of the european parliament in the european councils is no longer limited to the opening speech of the president of the european parliament. the european parliament now also takes part in the institutional and constitutional discussions of the summits. the intergovernmental conference which led to the agreement on the lisbon treaty was fully attended by the european parliament, at the level of heads of state or government, through its president, and by a delegation of three meps at the intergovernmental conference itself. this is a great step forward. and now, ladies and gentlemen, to reform our own work: the reform of the working methods and procedures of our european parliament has been and is an important project. the conference of presidents set up a working party with a detailed mandate, in which all the political groups were represented. the work has been successfully completed. much of what was proposed by the working group - about 80 per cent - has been achieved and implemented. these include the reorganisation of plenary debates, the reform of the legislative process, the improvement of committee work with increased cooperation between committees, and the possibility of legislative own-initiative reports or divergent decisions. i would like to thank in particular the chairman of the working party, dagmar roth-behrendt, and her colleagues for their special efforts. (applause from the centre) we have succeeded in adapting the european parliament's working methods to the changed political situation. we now have modernised procedures and new working methods, and this is a good basis for the work of the new electoral period. in addition, we in the bureau of the parliament have worked to improve the administration of the european parliament, to facilitate the day-to-day work of members and to modernise the channels of communication with citizens by introducing web-tv or the youth, citizens' and journalists' awards. the new parliamentary term will bring into force the statute for members of the european parliament, on which we have been working for many years. it is an important contribution to the financial system, transparency and publicity which concern us as members of parliament. the adoption of a clear and transparent legal status for assistants is also an important step forward and a success which we owe to all our parliamentary staff. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is the highest value. it unites us in the community of values of the european union. the dignity of the human being must always be respected - that is the ethical response to the moral crises of europe's past. (applause from the centre) we are therefore obliged to protect human dignity and to promote dialogue between cultures, which have been our guiding principles during my term of office. the european year of intercultural dialogue has provided a lasting impetus, whether through the dialogue within the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, the meetings of young people from different religious communities - including those from israel and palestine - or the arab and african weeks held in the european parliament. we have laid the foundations for a long-term dialogue which must continue to guide, inspire and engage us in the future. the peaceful settlement of the middle east is also essential for the peaceful coexistence of christians, jews and muslims and the people of the european union and the world. the west bank and gaza are not somewhere else, but in our immediate neighbourhood on the mediterranean. we must act with greater confidence as the european union on the international stage and contribute to peace and stability in the middle east. as parliamentarians we can offer an additional perspective in relations with the middle east because we can think and act outside the traditional diplomatic channels. it is with this conviction that i have advocated the creation of a new working party on the middle east. it is particularly important in the light of new developments in the middle east that we make a determined effort to promote the two-state solution - israel with secure borders and a palestinian state with secure borders. we must not allow these principles to be called into question! the commission has already made a number of proposals. in our daily work we deal with a variety of subjects, sometimes with very specific matters. but we must never forget our roots and the values that unite us. it took a long time to build the european union that we see today, a free, peaceful and socially committed union. we must give life to the foundations on which the european union is built. i am therefore particularly grateful to you, ladies and gentlemen, for your encouraging support of my initiative to build a 'house of european history' and for your continued support. i would like to thank in particular vice-president miguel angel martínez martínez for his constant support, but also all of you, ladies and gentlemen. this 'house of european history' is intended to be a place of remembrance and renewal of our european identity. today the fundamental decisions for the founding of this house have been taken. yesterday the constituent meetings of the two supervisory bodies took place. with your support, and of course if i am re-elected as mep on 7 june, i will devote myself to the task of bringing the house of european history to life by the end of the next parliamentary term in 2014. in 2014, we will commemorate the centenary of the outbreak of the first world war. one hundred years later, we live in a renewed europe of peace, freedom and unity. in our continuing quest, we have the support of many. i would like to take this opportunity to express my special thanks to all the dedicated staff in the european parliament's administration, and in particular to our new secretary-general, klaus welle, and his deputy, david harley, without whose commitment, expertise and commitment our political work would not be possible. (applause from the centre) they deserve our thanks, our support and our appreciation! i would also like to thank my personal staff in the cabinet, but above all i would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular the bureau and the group chairmen, for the good and trusting cooperation. we have just had a meeting of the conference of presidents, we had a meeting of the bureau on monday evening and we will have another meeting today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a bond of trust, and i thank you for that. we have achieved a great deal together and we must now regain the trust of our electorate. we do so with the deep conviction that the path we are taking towards european unification is the right one. the european elections ahead give us the chance to talk to the citizens about why the european union is necessary. i would like to call on all citizens to take part in the elections and to cast their votes for a good future for europe in the 21st century. the newly elected parliament will have a lot of work to do: to help overcome the economic and financial crisis, to implement a european energy policy, to transition to a low-carbon economy, to increase security for european citizens, and to promote peace and stability worldwide. the newly elected european parliament can build on a good balance sheet of all our work. the work of the past two and a half years as president of the european parliament has been a great challenge, which i have fulfilled with great pleasure and also with great dedication, and which i will continue to fulfil until 14 july. it is a great privilege to serve europe. i thank you very much for your confidence and for every moment of this joint work on the cause of european unity! i personally wish you all the best for the future. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is a day of thanks, of thanks to you for your work, mr president. i would like to say on behalf of my group that you have exercised your office with great dignity. you have given dignity to this parliament by the way you have presided over this house. this is no time to take stock of your work. the balance sheet of the president of the european parliament is also always subject to political evaluation. you can agree with one or the other or not. the balance sheet on such a day must focus on what the president has contributed to the success of this house. you presented your balance sheet. there is nothing to add to this balance sheet. so the question remains, what did the personality do for the house? i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council of ministers is able to take the necessary decisions. this house doesn't always feel worthy. but that is the case in all the parliaments of the world. the dignity of a multinational parliamentary assembly, an assembly of well over 700 members from 27 countries, belonging to eight different parliamentary groups, belonging to different religions, having different colours of skin, coming from different political traditions, having experienced different historical developments, must be preserved. it is difficult to bring these together and to give them unity through one's own representation. that's what you did well. for that, we owe you our deepest thanks! (applause from the centre) mr president, there are many activities which you have undertaken during these two and a half years in office. i would like to emphasize for our group, in support of what i have said about your presidency, a point on which we agreed with you one hundred percent and on which you have given this house a voice far beyond the political divisions - and thus have given a voice to the deprived people of the world - in a place as composed as i have just described. you have raised your voice against the shameful place of guantanamo in times when it was not appropriate. this, mr president, will be a permanent feature of your presidency. you have thus demonstrated that you live up to your self-asserted claim to be a tolerant and cosmopolitan person on the one hand and committed to your basic christian understanding on the other! but to put the whole of human dignity, whether it comes from the tradition of the enlightenment or - as you do - from a religious orientation, at the centre of your actions, has qualified you as a good president of the european parliament, and as such you will be remembered. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, francis wurtz. i would like to thank mr wurtz, who has been a member of parliament since 1979 and is now leaving parliament, on behalf of all of you. we also thank three other colleagues who have been here since 1979 and are leaving: klaus hänsch, our former president, ingo friedrich, former vice-president and quaestor, and karl von wogau, former chairman of the economic and monetary affairs committee, now of the subcommittee on security and defence. i would like to express my sincere thanks to these four and to all the outgoing members for their great commitment. thank you very much. (applause from the centre and the right)
that you can make such a speech shows that this is a free and democratic european parliament! (applause)
we'll take that under advisement.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am grateful to you for this opportunity to say a few words on behalf of the presidency and on behalf of the council, in response to you and to the interventions from the representatives of the political groups. it is particularly significant for us that the five years of this legislature have coincided with the first five years of membership of the european union for the czech republic and for the other countries which joined at that time. all the more so, given that the czech republic has had the privilege of holding the council presidency as this legislature draws to a close. i would first like to pay tribute to you, mr president, for the exemplary manner in which you have led this institution throughout the last two and a half years. it is a powerful witness to your qualities, in particular of fairness and integrity, that you are held in such respect by this parliament, a respect which clearly cuts across party political divisions. as one of the relatively few members first elected back in 1979, you have been able to bring your considerable experience, wisdom and knowledge to this office. speaking in particular on behalf of the presidency, i can only say that we have very much appreciated all your qualities in the contacts we have had both before and during our presidency. on behalf of the council, may i wish you all the best for the future. i hope you will allow me, since we are looking back over the past five years, to pay tribute also to your predecessor, mr borrell, who manifested the same qualities of impartiality and leadership. you have both ensured that this office of president is one which is held in respect and esteem. this parliament and the union more generally have good reasons to be grateful to you both. during the course of the last five years, this parliament has made effective use of its powers and prerogatives, not least in the important area of codecision where the council and parliament find themselves on opposite sides of the table, sometimes with very different views and objectives. despite these differences, both institutions work together to ensure that the system delivers. we can disagree and we can argue constructively, but we do so within a framework of agreed rules and procedures. i think both institutions can take some pride in our shared commitment to making the system work, and the last five years have provided plenty of examples that it does work and work very effectively. mr president, honourable members, in less than three months’ time a new parliament will take up office. there will be many new members. you will elect a new president and a different member state will be seated here as the presidency representing the council. i am sure that all of them will, during the course of the next five years, look back with gratitude and respect at the legacy which you, mr president, have left this institution. thank you for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. under your presidency, relations between the european parliament and the commission have developed very well - if not smoothly. it is to your personal credit that even during election periods, when the potential for conflict is known to be greatest, the normal political debate never ended in a crisis between the institutions. allow me to make a personal remark: i would like to thank you very much for your always friendly and considerate working style. you have been courteous, but you have also been corrective when necessary. but you've always been a gentleman. i would also like to underline how important it was for this parliament and the european union as a whole that you had the courage and the willingness to defend the democratic principles and privileges of this parliament, even in front of heads of state if necessary. (applause from the centre) and of course i would also like to congratulate you on 30 years as an elected member of the european parliament. your personality has shaped these decades and you have played a decisive role in the development of this parliament. president barroso would have liked to come himself today, but unfortunately, as you know, he is in prague for the eu-canada summit. i would like to thank you very warmly on behalf of the president and the whole commission for your successful presidency. thank you. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you very much for your mostly friendly reviews. i wish those colleagues who are not running for re-election a bright future and that we meet again. i wish all those who are running for office and who are re-elected together - if i am elected, which i hope will be the case - a good continuation of our work. what the group chairmen have said today is an encouragement for me to continue on the common european path in the future. i would like to thank you all very much and i hope we shall all meet again. thank you very much. (applause from the centre and the right)
i have to say, madam president, i have a question about the order of the court. just before we members were able to vote earlier, when the sitting was only briefly suspended, it seems that a member of our house of lords managed to sneak in a female candidate for parliament, take some naughty publicity photos with her and - in my view - abuse our body. is it not necessary to hold this candidate to account?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have come because i do not agree with the order of voting on the trautmann report. i would ask you to give me the floor again to explain why the voting order has been changed before compromise motion no 10.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to ask my group to change the order of voting now and to vote on a whole series of identical motions from different groups which are scheduled to be voted on under compromise motion no 10 before amendment no 10. i will explain it as follows: in my view, these amendments by various groups go far beyond the compromise amendment on the point of 'protecting citizens' rights against interference with or the blocking of internet access'. and i think that this parliament, which has so clearly expressed its views on the bono/cohn-bendit amendment, which has become so well known, should make a statement here once again in favour of the highest protection of civil rights. i regret that i cannot make this unanimous request at the end of a very, very good consultation with mrs trautmann, but this good consultation, the good result of the telecoms package, should not end up in us cutting back on civil rights en passant. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in view of rule 154 and rule 155 (2), the liberal group would like to support the green group's request on this point to change the order of amendments, namely that amendments nos 1 (c), 1 (p), 2, 5, 6 and 9 should be put to the vote before the compromise no 10. this is also connected with the fact that - perhaps there is something else on your voting lists - the liberal group will no longer support compromise motion no 10 following the decision of our group yesterday. for the voting procedure, rule 154 explains which amendment is dealt with first in the case of corresponding or conflicting requests. it's crucial to us that there be a court order before we can intervene in people's behavior. that is why we have withdrawn the amendment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not speaking in my capacity as chairman of the committee, but as rapporteur for my group on the trautmann report. i would urge that the motion for a resolution be rejected and that the vote be taken in the order in which you have proposed it in the voting lists. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. we have included this aspect in the compromise which was discussed for many months with the czech presidency. all political parties were closely involved in these discussions. i would ask you to stick to the order proposed and not to vote for the change in the vote proposed by the green group and the liberal group.
on behalf of the ppe-de group i have to say, madam president, very quickly, in consultation with the rapporteur: after we have reached agreement, we must adjust paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of the legislative resolution. i would suggest the following text in english for paragraph 2: considers that the reference amount indicated in the legislative proposal is compatible with the multiannual financial framework as the latter has been revised; in paragraph 3, the first sentence should be deleted, the rest remaining unchanged: recalls that any redeployment that would lead... and so on. paragraph 5: recalls that the legislative process has been completed after the financing of the programme has been agreed;
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this report has been hotly debated in several groups and, in order to ensure the fairness of the vote, i would ask you to give me the floor before the vote on recital 3 so that i can comment on the order of voting.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is a question of different ideas on the regulation of core capital, and amendments nos 91 and 92 go further in that they provide a clearer and more precise definition of core capital, which will cause us less work in the future. i therefore ask that we vote on this first and then on amendment no 89 in recital 3. i hope that the honourable members will agree to this and at the same time ask you to accept that amendment no 89 to recital 3 be put to the vote by roll-call.
in writing. the spd meps did not agree with karas' report for two reasons: firstly, the credit securitisation reserve is an important and correct instrument for financial institutions to share in the business risk. however, this requires a significant amount of own resources. the 5% deduction agreed in the trilogue does not meet this condition. the eu commission had originally asked for 15 per cent in the consultation process, but then bowed to industry pressure and proposed 5 per cent. the conservatives and liberals in the economic and monetary committee wanted to declare even this small share of the business risk superfluous when a guarantee declaration was presented by the financial institutions. the spd meps are in favour of a significantly higher deductible and will continue to press this demand in future reforms of the equity capital directives. secondly, the definition of core capital as given in the karas report violates the competition neutrality of the scheme. it provides that in future silent partnership contributions will no longer be fully considered core capital, although they may be fully absorbed in the event of liquidity. this opens the door to unfair competition from public banks in germany. we find that silent partnership contributions are a proven and eu-compliant refinancing instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in the present financial crisis, the european social models are facing major challenges. the cdu/csu group therefore advocates a social europe. we are therefore behind the report by josé silva peneda on the renewed social agenda. we therefore welcome the fact that priority is being given to creating and promoting jobs in these times of crisis and that we want to promote educational policy measures. europe must create a social framework and set standards at the european level. however, the following areas of competence of the member states must be respected: we have therefore opposed the papal call for the introduction of minimum wages in all the member states, which was originally called for in paragraph 14 of the report. the introduction of minimum wages is a purely national decision. we therefore welcome the success of the oral amendment on this point. every person must be guaranteed adequate resources to live a life in dignity, but member states have different options to ensure this. we have made it clear in our oral amendment that, in addition to minimum wages, collective agreements and generally binding regulations or a state guaranteed minimum income are also considered. in this way we are taking account of the principle of subsidiarity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr obiols i germà, on his very good report. the situation of human rights in many countries is very bad. this is also true of europe, for example, if we think of belarus. the european union must therefore significantly step up its efforts to implement human rights policy in all areas and to set clear standards. we believe that human rights are indivisible. this can be taken into account, for example, during the negotiations on a new agreement with russia, by a binding human rights clause that affects all areas of the negotiations. i would also like to call once again for the subcommittee on human rights to become a main committee.
i have to say, madam president, the epp-ed group calls on the government and the chinese communist party to conduct the forthcoming human rights dialogue in a constructive manner. this would considerably ease relations between the eu and china. we have a real interest in improving bilateral relations. but this dialogue must also be conducted honestly. we must therefore maintain our legitimate demands on china. we therefore call for the immediate release of the human rights activist hu jia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and so the chinese region of tibet must be made immediately accessible to journalists and un human rights experts. in my opinion, the people's republic of china has shown before the olympic games that it can, for example, grant greater freedom of the press without endangering the stability of the country. now it should have the courage to embark on new reforms: reforms on re-education camps, the rights of the accused, the death penalty, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly. it is not enough to say that the european union is not a party to the convention.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, i just want to assure the honourable member that the council is aware that this is a serious activity which is a real threat to the cultural wealth of europeans and the european union. i think that it is clear from the list of measures which the council has dealt with in recent months and years that this issue has been and remains another priority, even within the framework of the comprehensive european plan which has set out specific action objectives such as the establishment of a european observatory to monitor counterfeiting and piracy. i think it is in this sense that it must be said that the council is aware of its responsibility, aware of the seriousness of the problem and is determined to work concretely on this matter. as regards the telecommunications package, the previous presidency and our presidency have invested a great deal of energy in this issue. we regret that a complete compromise has not been agreed, including this anti-piracy clause, and let me just express the hope that after further proceedings, this agreed telecommunications agreement will finally be approved. however, for the reasons mentioned by the honourable member, i regret that this package has not been adopted today.
president-in-office of the council. − last march the council and the spring european council further refined a new position for the international climate change negotiations, in particular in view of the copenhagen conference. at this meeting of 19-20 march 2009, the council stressed its conviction that the economic crisis and the policy measures in response to it provide an opportunity to achieve the necessary economic reforms and at the same time speed up reforms towards a safe and sustainable low-carbon resource-efficient economy. the presidency conclusions of the european council of march this year stated that the european union remained committed to playing a leading role and bringing about the global and comprehensive climate agreement in copenhagen in december this year, designed to limit global warming to below 2° celsius. to this end the european council recalled the eu’s commitment to a 30% emission reduction as its contribution to such an agreement, provided that other developed countries commit themselves to comparable emission reductions and that advanced developing countries contribute adequately according to their responsibilities and respective capabilities. the european council will further discuss these issues at its june meeting.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, in answer to the question put, i would first like to say that we have never been sceptical about climate change, as far as the czech government and the czech republic are concerned. i think that what i said in my speech, that the march european council adopted some conclusions, that the previous european councils with the czech government's participation adopted certain measures and that the government agreed with those conclusions, cannot in any way indicate that this government, the one that is resigning and the new one that will take office on friday this week, has changed its mind in any way on this matter. in this sense, i can say that we will follow the path proposed or outlined by the previous councils, and it is our ambition that at the next june summit the european union, in preparing the mandate of the european council or the framework for the negotiations in copenhagen, will really do its utmost to ensure that the european union, with all the problems or difficulties that are related to this, moves forward at the june summit. i felt a certain reference to the president in the question, but i can tell you with all the conviction and honour that two days ago a summit with japan took place in prague, chaired by president klaus on behalf of the european union. and if you've noticed anything that would disrupt the united european union on climate, please let me know, but nothing like that has happened. i therefore consider these concerns to be understandable, but not entirely justified in principle, and i hope that i have allayed them.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, but at the beginning of your speech today you announced and congratulated the czech republic on the fact that the senate had approved the treaty of lisbon today by a large majority, which i think is the best answer to the question at this moment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after president klaus, out of pure egocentricity, has damaged the national image of his country, i too would like to congratulate the czech presidency and say: it has been a first-class presidency and i am happy that it ends with the ratification of the treaty as far as parliamentary matters are concerned.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, thank you for your words of appreciation and congratulations on the adoption of the treaty of lisbon by the senate. president klaus has his opinions and we in the czech republic respect them as opinions that belong to that democratic spectrum of opinions. as for the debate on the treaty of lisbon, it was very intense and that is why the senate has only now approved the treaty of lisbon, and precisely on the basis of the long debate which has led to this matter. the majority, that is to say, 54 senators out of 80 present voted in favour of this treaty, including senators for the ods party, that is, for the party which former president klaus founded, testifies to the fact that there is within the czech republic a eurorealism, there is a very strong sense of co-responsibility for europe, for the european union and the will to continue the process of european integration and to participate actively in it. as for the constitutional order, the approval of both chambers of the czech parliament is indeed a prerequisite for ratification, which is completed by the signature of the president. the constitution does not give any deadlines on this matter, but i would not like to speculate on the date when the treaty will be signed by the president at this time. the situation is very new for us at the moment, even in the czech republic itself. we have a big heart and we are obviously very happy and we will of course have further consultations, negotiations to finalize the ratification as soon as possible.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the negotiations with croatia have entered an important and demanding phase. since the start of these negotiations, 22 chapters have been opened, of which seven have been provisionally closed. forecasts of the conclusion of the negotiating process cannot be made. as you know, the advancement of the negotiations is mainly guided by croatia’s progress in preparing for accession in addressing opening and closing benchmarks, as well as in meeting the requirements of the negotiating framework and fulfilling croatia’s obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement. the implementation of the revised accession partnership is also important to prepare for further integration with the european union. full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, including access to documents, remains essential in line with the negotiating framework. in this context, it is worth recalling that the council has repeatedly stated that, in accordance with the negotiating framework and the accession partnership, efforts towards good neighbourly relations must be continued – in particular work on finding solutions to bilateral issues with neighbouring countries, especially border issues. the presidency regrets that the border issue with slovenia is affecting the pace of croatia’s accession negotiations and the progress on the ground does not match the former progress registered. as you know, the presidency, together with the former and incoming presidencies and the commission, has made significant facilitation efforts to make progress on this issue. furthermore, the april general affairs and external relations council held a useful discussion to take stock of the situation. concerning the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i would like to recall the decision of the european council of december 2005 to grant it the status of candidate country, taking into account in particular the requirements of the stabilisation and association process and criteria for membership and implementation of the priorities in the partnership, the substantial progress made in completing the legislative framework related to the ohrid framework agreement, as well as its track record in implementing the stabilisation and association agreement, including its trade-related provisions since 2001. according to the european council of june 2008, further steps by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in its progress towards the eu will be possible, provided that the conditions set out in the december 2005 european council conclusions, the copenhagen political criteria and the outstanding key priorities of the accession partnership are fulfilled. maintaining good neighbourly relations, including a negotiated and mutually acceptable solution on the main issue, remains essential. holding free and fair elections is crucial. according to the preliminary assessment of the osce/odihr election observation mission, elections held on 22 march and 5 april were organised thoroughly and met most international commitments and standards. this is an important step forward for democracy in the country. we encourage the new president and the government in their efforts to achieve progress in their country, to the benefit of all citizens, and the government for concentrating on the reform agenda, such as the strengthening of the rule of law, economic progress and the fight against corruption and organised crime. concerning other countries of the western balkans, very considerable progress has been made towards eu membership over recent years but this has also been uneven and huge challenges remain. the council is willing to support efforts to meet these challenges, in particular by implementing the stabilisation and association agreements and by granting considerable financial support. the stabilisation and association process remains the overall framework for the european perspective of the western balkans. by making solid progress in economic and political reform and by fulfilling the necessary conditions and requirements, the remaining potential candidates in the western balkans should achieve candidate status according to their own merits, with eu membership as the ultimate goal. in december 2008 montenegro filed its membership application. on 23 april this year the council asked the commission to prepare its opinion on the application so that the council can then take further decisions. on 28 april albania applied for eu membership. applications from other countries might be received at a later stage. the council recalls the european union’s willingness to assist the economic and political development of kosovo through a clear european perspective, in line with the european perspective of the region. the council welcomes the commission’s intention to present, in autumn 2009, a study examining means to further kosovo’s political and socioeconomic development. the council is committed to strengthening people-to-people contacts, such as lifting the visa requirements when the benchmarks defined in the visa liberalisation road maps are met, as well as further promoting student and young professional exchanges. while strengthening the ownership principle, the eu stresses the importance of regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations among the western balkan countries. regional cooperation and the european agenda are linked. the more western balkan countries cooperate with each other, the more they integrate within european structures. this is because regional cooperation contributes to a shared understanding in the region and to finding solutions for issues of common interest, such as in the fields of energy, transport, trade, the fight against organised crime and corruption, refugee return and border control.
thank you very much for the very good and very detailed answer. three very short additional questions: firstly, do you think it is conceivable that new chapters with croatia will be opened under the czech presidency? secondly, will you give a date for macedonia later this year? thirdly, what is the timetable for visa facilitation?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the last night sitting of this parliamentary term is the debate on the lisbon treaty. we know that many night sessions preceded this one, leading to the conclusion of a reform treaty and ratification by 26 parliaments of the member states. i say: congratulations and appreciation to the colleagues in the czech senate who today voted in favour of this treaty by a clear majority, and thanks to all those who helped to remove this stumbling block. (applause from the centre) i know! let us applaud the czech senate from strasbourg to prague! we are very pleased with this result. i am very optimistic that we will be able to complete ratification by the end of the year. i am not going to go into the details of the matter, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. the committee on constitutional affairs has always had and has maintained this optimism. it is not just the european council, it is not just the commission - the european parliament too must prepare for the entry into force of the treaty. i am very pleased that this house is adopting four extremely interesting and important reports as a sort of final act of this parliamentary term - no, five reports in fact, since my colleague guy-quint also made a report on lisbon on the budgetary approach. i see that this house has consistently and even in difficult times adhered to the reform treaty. not everyone did. that is why i cannot understand why there were so many hesitations and doubts in this house about whether we should even be talking about lisbon. the debate was also hidden in the evening session. we could have stopped them in broad daylight. it is not really appropriate to the dignity of this house to put a debate like this off until the evening session. we know why this happened. they didn't want this house to reaffirm its will in front of a larger audience that we need this treaty, that we want it and that we believe in it. there have been doubters right up to the highest echelons of this parliament, which is completely incomprehensible to me and ultimately unacceptable. i have taken over the report on the new role of parliament under the treaty and it can be said that this parliament will be one of the winners of the reform treaty. we are making a quantum leap in democratic control, whether it be in legislation, whether it be in budgetary control and budgetary decision-making, whether it be in the control and even the election of the executive, the commission, whether it be in the approval of international treaties or in the new rights of initiative that we are getting: the most prominent example is the right of the european parliament to propose treaty amendments - a privilege hitherto reserved for the member states and their governments. the co-decision procedure will, as a rule, put us on an equal footing with the council of ministers: agricultural policy, fisheries policy, research policy, structural regulations - many things will now also be the responsibility and the co-decision of this house. we have new powers of control, new rights of information, new rights of initiative. i also thank you, mrs wallström, you've always been on our side. today is a good day, and with the four reports we are, as it were, closing a period of commitment to reform the european union. i hope that the new parliament will bring this to a final conclusion and that we can enter the new electoral period stronger on the new basis! (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact - and my predecessors have said this - this is a great moment, not because our reports are being discussed here, but because today it is clear that the parliaments of 26 countries have ratified the treaty of lisbon and that only one country has a referendum to hold, which is promised. the fact that the parliaments of 26 countries have ratified this treaty shows that it is a treaty of parliaments. there has been a lot of progress in the process of european union integration, but there has been no treaty like this treaty of lisbon, which strengthened parliaments - both the european parliament and the national parliaments - strengthened democracy, introduced a citizen's voice and strengthened the principle of subsidiarity politically and legally by strengthening national parliaments. and that's why it sometimes surprises me that those who claim to be the inventors of democracy are fighting this very treaty. they are opposed to this treaty of lisbon because they do not want to give the process of european unification any democratic legitimacy, because they are opposed to european unification as a whole and are afraid that this europe could gain popularity through more democracy and transparency and also through an increase in decision-making capacity to meet the challenges of the future. and that's why they tell the lies they tell. let me say at this point that i would like to thank the czech presidency of the council and in particular prime minister topolánek, who, in a situation which was personally difficult for him and for which he is not responsible, fought on his last day in office to ensure that a sufficient majority was achieved in the czech senate. and it was not a narrow majority, the majority was 54:20. this is a huge advantage for those who voted for the lisbon treaty. and i hope that after all 26 house of representatives have decided that non-administrative people will not interrupt the democratic process by refusing to sign their names. and i expect that the commitments they have made will be honoured and that these contracts will be signed. we also see in the discussions in this election campaign that the financial crisis has shown that each country is lost on its own in this global order. it is therefore extremely important that this is recognised in ireland and that - if i can believe the opinion polls - new thinking is brought about so that the interests of ireland are also taken into account. i am sure that this treaty, by virtue of its social clause, by virtue of its commitment to a social market economy and not to predatory capitalism - that is, by virtue of its commitment to socialism - is also a treaty for the little people. we can work together to pursue our interests in this world. in order to be able to exercise real control over an administrative bureaucracy, national governments, the commission or the council apparatus here in brussels and strasbourg, we must establish close cooperation between the european parliament and the national parliaments. there is a large share of common tasks in foreign and security policy, in justice and home affairs, in the control of europol. there are a number of possibilities available to national parliaments through their veto power. the orange and yellow cards and the right of appeal give them possibilities in the area of subsidiarity control, and as a member of the council they can control their government more closely and thus have a double democratic legitimacy. that is why the european parliament and the national parliaments - and here we make a number of concrete proposals in our report - are not opponents in this process but allies who want to jointly control and advance europe democratically and who do not want to let it degenerate into a europe of apparatuses. that is why the treaty of lisbon is good and right, and the national parliaments and the european parliament will live up to that responsibility.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is my last speech to the european parliament and i am pleased to be speaking as rapporteur on the european citizens' initiative. i hope that tomorrow, on the last day of this parliamentary term, parliament will make a political gesture, a gesture of closer ties with the people, and finally launch a project which has been close to my heart for many years. first, a preliminary remark on its own. i regret to say that neither my group nor my party - to put it mildly - has been able to support the european citizens' initiative. while on the one hand we do not miss an opportunity to complain about the lack of democracy in the eu, on the other hand we are denied serious steps to make the european project more democratic. such action is neither credible nor sustainable. it blocks the progress in europe that the citizens so persistently demand, and i cannot and will not accept all of this. before i leave office, i would like to thank all the colleagues from the epp-ed group, the spe group, the liberal group and the green group who supported me in my report. i would like to thank jo leinen, chairman of the constitutional committee, and in particular all the coordinators and shadow rapporteurs of these four groups. i thank you for the excellent cooperation we have had across party and national boundaries and for the way we have been able to advance the european integration project together. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the provision on the citizens' initiative in the lisbon treaty is undoubtedly a milestone in the process of european integration. because it is true: in the european union we are not uniting states, we are uniting people. this concern will be met in a new quality when citizens themselves are directly involved in the european legislative process for the first time, as provided for in article 11 (4) of the new eu treaty. a million citizens will then have the same right to ask the commission to submit a specific draft regulation or directive as the council has had since 1957 and the european parliament since 1993. in my report, parliament sets out the main points and guidelines for a future regulation on the conditions and procedures for a european citizens' initiative. and, madam vice-president, i expect the commission, in the event of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, not only to submit a proposal as soon as possible, but also to follow the guidelines of my report as far as possible. in particular, the commission should share the view of parliament, which represents a significant number of member states within the meaning of article 11 (4) of the new eu treaty. my report proposes the number 7. it is of key importance that no arbitrary number is fixed here, because it must be able to justify the related restriction on the right of citizens of the union to participate on an equal footing in a citizens' initiative, irrespective of their nationality, on the one hand, and be purpose-oriented on the other. in other words, the minimum number of member states must ensure that the starting point of the european legislative process is sufficiently determined by the general european interest and not by national particular interests. i would also like to ask you to pay particular attention to the design of the procedure, in particular to the question of the admissibility of a citizens' initiative. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. if citizens of the union want to have a say in the european legislative process and launch a citizens' initiative, it is essentially a matter of fairness that the competent union institutions give their opinion as early as possible and, above all, in a binding manner on whether the proposed initiative fulfils the legal requirements of the treaty. this should be done before the collection of statements of support, because the member states that provide resources for this need legal certainty too. in conclusion, i would like to remind you that the provisions on the citizens' initiative did not fall from the sky. they were already in the constitutional treaty, because they were developed in the constitutional convention - some of my colleagues were involved in this - in close cooperation with non-governmental organisations. its inclusion in the convention's draft constitution was neither spontaneous nor a product of chance. it was rather the result of intensive consultations between members of the convention and non-governmental organisations committed to democratic politics. and by now -- you know this -- this idea has been on hold for six years. i think it is high time that this idea was finally brought to life after so long, because it is high time for direct democracy in a united europe! (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. to celebrate the day, i have now - as you can see - deliberately put myself in the place of my colleague zahradil. i would like to stress for the committee on foreign affairs that we consider the future vice-president and high representative of the commission to be fully accountable to parliament, because he needs parliament's confidence to take office, just like all other commissioners. the current practice of regular political dialogue in plenary and in the external committee must be maintained in the dual function merged into one person. the european parliament has already made a number of recommendations to the council, and it is not surprising that the council has taken the initiative of adopting a number of recommendations. the political plans and positions of our executive can be discussed regularly in the external committee, also in the form that the future chairman of the psk gives information there on topics discussed in the psk. this practice shall also apply to the eusrs on request. in future, parliament should also discuss the decisions on security and defence policy, in order to give greater democratic legitimacy to operations in third countries. the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. we are clearly saying that this department should be administratively attached to the commission. we also want to ensure that in future the head of an eu delegation in a third country must appear before the foreign affairs committee before being finally confirmed. i think that if someone does not leave a good impression on his own members of parliament, it would be difficult to send him abroad. we also call for the union's entire external action, including the common security and defence policy, to be financed from the community budget in future. and for the next treaty after lisbon, i would also like to see common military spending appear in this budget.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. - mr president, i have to say something. in my committee, the committee on the internal market, we also see the enormous advantages that we have from the lisbon treaty and do not want to miss, in the field of consumer protection. it is very interesting that this treaty of lisbon has made consumer protection a cross-cutting task, which naturally gives this area a much greater strength. this is an area of particular importance to the citizens, because it is here that we can show them every day what they have to gain from the european union. the citizens keep asking: what do we really have from the european union? the fact that this is now enshrined in article 12 and not in article 100 and so on is also important, because it means that the value of consumer protection has been greatly increased. i think it would be very nice if we had the lisbon treaty in the future. i am very glad that the prague senate has also voted today, and has made it quite clear that we are for this europe, for a social europe, for a people's europe, which we want to equip for the future. thank you for allowing us to express this today. i would like to thank you in particular, mrs kaufmann, for your very good work in the convent. you did something very important there!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not you said you would propose to the president and the bureau that we should put the five reports and the main arguments together in a brochure. that is an excellent idea, and i welcome it. i would recommend that we include the corbett/méndez de vigo report, which was the basis for our work on the lisbon treaty. we had 500 votes for it, a record number. this is part of the process, and it was the starting point for this attempt to get the reform treaty after the constitutional treaty. i think it's a very good idea, and you have our full support. you've already thanked a few who are no longer with us. i can say that all the members of the committee on constitutional affairs have cooperated properly. we've always been a high-stakes committee. i would like to take this opportunity to thank once again those who are here today: johannes voggenhuber, a true pillar of our work for democracy and civil rights. sylvia kaufmann has been mentioned several times, and her opinion has really won over many oppositions in her political environment. carlos carnero gonzález was always with us. he fought for the constitution, and in spain for the referendum. assunção esteves has always been very active. alain lamassoure has done a lot, including for the constitutional treaty. and not to mention, even though she's not on the committee, catherine guy-quint. it has done a really important job in the committee on budgets and has always supported the idea that parliament should have more powers and more rights. so thank you all. i mentioned the people here who will be missing next time. we promise to continue their work. i would like to make two further comments on the reports as a spokesman for the socialist group. we have made a great effort to ensure that the citizens' initiative is not a placebo or an alibi, but a serious constitutional instrument with which citizens can put an issue on the agenda in brussels. i think we will also make sure that this remains the case in the implementation. the commission should exercise its monopoly of initiative very soon after the new constitution and bring forward a legislative proposal. i would like to refer to the dehaene report again, and to the transitional period. we want to have the spirit of lisbon already in the consultations on the council's proposal for the new commission president. but the whole college and, ultimately, the president, will not be confirmed until the treaty enters into force. so we shall vote twice on the president of the commission. you should know that. it just brings this transition situation. i think that what mr dehaene has drawn up for the programming of an electoral period is very good. the starting point is the citizens' vote in the european elections. this is followed by all staff decisions, political programmes and eu funding. the starting point is the vote of the sovereign, the citizen in the eu. i think that's very good. thank you very much, jean-luc dehaene.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the speeches show that the lisbon treaty is clearly not being seen rationally but emotionally. why not wait for the new parliament and then let the new parliament debate and see if the lisbon treaty comes at all? no, there are those here who are totally fixated on this treaty and want to explain to us again and again the alleged advantages. the old liberal, burkhard hirsch, put it very well. he said: 'we should stop looking at the irish as rain-soaked shepherds who were the only europeans who were unable to grasp the blessings of the lisbon treaty. the referenda would have been negative elsewhere, because the voters' approval of a treaty which even a well-meaning reader can no longer understand cannot and should not be obtained. the lisbon treaty does not just regulate the relationship between the eu institutions, it also sets out the political content. and that's the key. some of the contents: for example, in this treaty of lisbon, article 43 (1) provides for combat missions by the european union. there is a military solidarity clause in article 222 (1a) which states that 'all available means shall be mobilised to avert terrorist threats on the territory of member states'. the european union is thus becoming a military alliance, and there is even the possibility of military action within the union. article 43 (1) also refers to 'assistance to third countries in combating terrorism on their territory'. there is a whole series of arrangements in this area, there is the 'permanent structured cooperation' which makes a military core europe possible, there is a role for nato in this treaty, and 'member states commit themselves to gradually improving their military capabilities'. in the future, if this treaty comes into force, which i do not hope to do, there will be a start-up fund (article 41): the eu budget could also be used for military purposes. that is the area of foreign and military policy. in the field of economic policy, the economic logic of the lisbon treaty is precisely the economic logic that led to the economic crisis: 'an open market economy with free competition'. that's exactly what you would never say again. i have the impression that the people - especially the so-called eu elite - who want this treaty are actually living in the past. conditions have changed very fundamentally. what we need is a new contract for a new time. ireland has decided. the referendum was decided. there was a no, and that contract is dead. now suddenly there is a second vote! who in france would say that when mr sarkozy was elected, you should simply vote again because you do not like mr president sarkozy? i want to make it clear: there are good reasons against this treaty, which are purely rational, and therefore it should stick to what was said in ireland, namely: no means no. that means that the lisbon treaty is dead, and i do not understand why we are discussing it today in this context. there is a shift of power within this lisbon treaty towards the large member states. i want to make it quite clear: we, as internationalists, defend the european idea against those who want to turn the eu into a military power and a purely economic alliance. we need a treaty other than this treaty of lisbon, and that is to say, a treaty which is really peace-oriented, and not a treaty like this, which is essentially a military treaty! thank you very much.
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's citizenship. in this way, he is attacking majority decisions in his own parliament and senate as a political zombie, and confirms his infamous and sectarian attitude in other areas of politics as well. fortunately, after the positive votes, he's only making a fool of himself. we greens are positive and constructive towards the process of european integration, and of course we also make critical remarks where necessary. once again, i would like to thank the czech senate, parliament and government.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank you for the opportunity to make some remarks a little earlier. the debate has shown a high degree of conviction across all political groups and nations and has also made clear the strength of our approach to moving this europe forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that these gentlemen will also one day realise that they are taking a position on a basis which winston churchill abandoned 60 years ago. we are now entering a very crucial phase. we should not fall into triumphalism after the decisions we have taken with such broad support in the european parliament and which we found so convincing in prague. it is a matter of great importance for us to give the irish people the opportunity, with all modesty, to make their choice in sovereignty and freedom - a choice which ireland, with responsibility for the whole continent, must make in sovereign freedom. i think we should be instrumental in making that happen. i hope that the european council at the end of june will create the conditions for this final stage to be taken and for the irish to be given the conditions they need to deal with this issue again.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank mrs doyle for her contribution from an irish point of view, which i fully support. the irish people are to decide on their own, without outside pressure - very likely in october - whether the guarantees now being negotiated at the june summit will remove their concerns - the main concerns that were linked to the treaty - and whether, in these circumstances, they can follow the other 26 countries and take the reform step for the european union. i hope that the independence of opinion in ireland will also be respected by our great neighbour, great britain. the first referendum saw a large number of british opponents of the treaty driving around in ireland, and above all the pro-european british tabloid press contributed to the uncertainty of the people. it should also be said that in the second referendum these people should have respect for the independent opinion of the people of ireland! that was a great debate, an important debate! so today, the parliaments of 26 countries have said yes. that's over 7,800 people who have found that this treaty is good, that it will take us forward. 350 people's representatives in 26 countries said no. they can't all be fools and confused! i think that the agreement cannot be as bad as it is sometimes stereotypically labelled in this house. anyone who says that this is a military union is ignoring the eu's primary objective, which is to serve peace on the continent and in the world. and anyone who says that a neoliberal economic constitution will be established has not read the treaty. this is the most social european treaty that has ever existed! thank you, madam vice-president, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you! and i hope that the new parliament will do what is stated in the reports, namely apply and implement the treaty. thank you very much.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased that in a short time - six months - and before the end of this parliamentary term, we have been able to draw up and adopt a new programme for the promotion of european films, which will benefit the cultural and economic life of the european union and the world. this was only possible and i would like to thank you very much for it because there has been an extremely good cooperation. thank you very much, commissioner. it was an excellent proposal put forward by the commission for the media mundus programme. we have had very good cooperation with the czech presidency of the council, and the best of all was the cooperation in the committee on culture. it is only by this means that this objective has been achieved in a short time. eu film funding under the media programme has been a major success story in the european union for some 15 years. 90% of all european films shown outside their home country have been funded by the media programme. but these have only been projects within europe, and this programme funding is no longer sufficient in this era of globalisation of markets and new technologies. new opportunities are emerging, but so are new challenges. and to these challenges, the media mundus programme we are talking about today is a fantastic answer. it responds to the opportunities offered by the new markets outside europe for european films. it also responds to the need and opportunities for film promotion and films as a support and engine for intercultural dialogue. and so i would like to thank you for the pilot projects on media mundus that have been launched over the last two years. 7 million was available. it became clear that the demand is huge. training, marketing and distribution in worldwide networks were promoted by the pilot projects, and in particular the emerging audiovisual markets of the world india, brazil, south korea, canada have submitted excellent projects. we are therefore happy to support this proposal with the vote of the committee on culture today. i would ask the whole house to agree to support this programme with the appropriate amount of funding for the next few years to achieve the objective of supporting european film funding as a global ambassador for our cultural values. i shall be making my last speech in the european parliament today. i feel very fortunate to be able to conclude the programme with the support of all of you and i would like to convey my message: in your future work, remember that cultural goods in europe cannot be just economic goods, but must remain both cultural and economic goods. i would like to thank all my colleagues in the committee on culture, the secretariats and you, commissioner, and your directorate-general, gregory paulger, for ten years of excellent cooperation in the audiovisual field. thank you very much.
member of the commission. − mr president, i could not agree more with what ms hieronymi has said, and those 10 years of working together with her and with other members of the committee on culture and education were very efficient and, from a personal point of view, very enriching. so, thanks to you all, from whatever parties, who have really been working for culture to become important and culture to be able to speak to the people. i am very glad that parliament made some proposals on the report, which are clarifications and simplifications, so they improved the proposal which i had put on the table. as you know, the preparatory action media international has been the basis in order to develop media mundus and, in this context, i am also grateful to parliament for giving me eur 2 million in 2008 and eur 5 million in 2009 to finance preparatory action. media mundus will start in 2011 and will follow on from media international. it aims at strengthening cultural and commercial relations between european film industry professionals and those from all over the world. the concept of media mundus is new, ambitious and innovative, because it promotes cooperation between professionals, which is not done normally by european programmes, and, unlike existing programmes, it is also based on mutual benefit, not only for our film-makers but also for film-makers from third countries, in different fields. the first one is training, including trainees and trainers from european and third countries. it will improve access to third-country markets and build trust and long-term commercial relationships: this is normal. when you have been sitting together at school, training for the film industry, with somebody from asia, somebody from africa or from the americas, it is clear that, later on in your professional life, you have an impetus to work together. that is also why we support the organisation of forums for international co-productions. we train them together, and then we expect those professionals start to work together. so we need the forums for international co-productions. then we have to improve the distribution, circulation and visibility of european audiovisual arts in third countries. that is always a win-win situation for people from third countries within europe. here is a very good example of a europe which is not a fortress europe but an open europe, a europe which gives, which takes, which shares. we have to improve public demand for culturally diverse audiovisual content, which will be very important, so we have to get the youth, the young public most of all, to see european films. i am very confident that media mundus will increase consumer choice, so that people will have the possibility to watch european films. it will bring cultural diversity to european markets by getting more quality films from smaller markets outside europe into europe, and it will give a chance to european films on the international market. so it will create new business opportunities for professionals from europe and around the globe. this is, of course, a very important economic contribution. it is a question of competitiveness, but it is most of all a question of cultural diversity – our cultural diversity – which is our most precious good, and the cultural diversity of those who live in other continents, which is their most special good. to share those is a wonderful chance, which will be built up by media mundus.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the media mundus programme is a project which is also the idea of our committee, the committee on culture. it was born there, and above all we have been very much involved in it, and it is of course also signed by ruth hieronymi, who, along with the commission, was very much supported by all of us in the committee on culture in this particular project. we have learned from the erasmus mundus project, which has opened the doors to our students who want to go to third countries and vice versa; in the context of globalisation, it is actually a necessary thing, and media mundus is going in the same direction in the field of filmmakers. it is a wonderful example of how to organise intercultural dialogue in this area, which has economic aspects, of course, but which is also, and above all, a cultural dialogue. media mundus also wants to support and implement the unesco convention, which aims to promote cultural diversity in europe and the world, and to achieve dialogue and balance between economic and social interests. media mundus, of course, strengthens the mobility of our films, our filmmakers, our teachers and our students, and in the end we do what wim wenders always urges us to do, namely to give a face to this europe, to make the european dream a reality. the american dream has been taught to us through movies for decades, even today. if we finally get to the point where the european dream is also being born in cooperation with third countries, with images, then we will have achieved much more for the stabilisation of this european union than we can do with many other things. we will -- if we work together in this globalized world -- we will push the americans back a little bit in the global marketplace and we will be able to represent our dream a little bit better. we will certainly have the support of third countries, whose smaller production - perhaps from south korea or south america - we want to help to make more visible on the european market. all in all, this is a project which will help all parties: third countries and european cinema. it was about time it happened. media mundus is, in my view, the right answer to the global technical and socio-economic challenges. i would like to end with a sentence that says: "what helps our diversity, will strengthen our identity".
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner reding, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in fact, our cultural and media policy is about giving europe a soul. it has been rightly said, including by commission president barroso, that people will not fall in love with the single market, which is necessary, but they will want to see and enjoy cultural diversity, the cultural treasure of europe. and they also want cultural diversity to be europe's ambassador to the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what was the tragedy of european history, and what is the great hope for a peaceful and better future? this is the basic cultural concept of the european union, which we want to nurture internally, but which we must of course also send out. that is why european cultural policy, and especially film policy, is always an ambassador of european identity. so i'm so glad that we were able to start this program. i should like to make it clear that the next term will be about expanding this programme, giving it even more life, but of course also more money, so that media mundus can really fulfil its role in international cooperation, in making clear what european values are, what european cultural diversity is, and also in starting co-productions, joint work, training in the best sense, a win-win situation that enriches us and others. and this is to be the hallmark of european cultural policy in an age of globalisation and digitalisation. i too would like to take this opportunity today to thank mrs ruth hieronymi for her excellent cooperation and for the fact that we have succeeded in making it clear here in the house that culture, although always having an economic aspect, is always more than a commodity. it's really about identity, it's really about diversity, it's really about -- in the best sense -- cultural engagement, because that's what moves people in their hearts and also in their minds. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. and so, dear ruth hieronymi, thank you for your cooperation and good luck with your personal future! (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you to all those who have contributed to making our cultural diversity, not only in europe, but also transcending borders. i would like, at the end of this speech, to give you some concrete examples of how this can work and how it has already worked. we have developed 11 training partnerships with latin america, india, canada, turkey, ukraine, moldova and georgia covering films, tv shows, animation, documentaries. for example, a cartoon connection between the eu and latin america and canada for training and developing a cartoon specialist. for instance prime exchange, a workshop for authors and producers from india and europe, to understand better the financing and the marketing elements of films. and the promotion on the distribution has been done, for instance, by the european producers club, which organised co-producing workshops in china and in india. dolma organised a documentary month in chile, the paris project made co-produced productions between japan and south korea and europe, and europacinema has included a network of 230 european cinemas and 148 cinemas in the rest of the world, in order to exchange films between them. so here we can see very concrete action. it is not about big words but about deeds, in order to help the professionals to do themselves what they can best do: that is, to make films, to show films, to make films travel. thanks to all those who have helped this to become a reality.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank you for the supportive and constructive debate. i am sure that with this momentum, this media mundus programme - as rightly pointed out here - will not only be a great success in the coming years, but will also be able to mobilise additional support. if you are concerned about the lack of european culture being broadcast to the world - and there are reasons for this - you should be happy about this media mundus programme, you should be enthusiastic about it, because it is an excellent example of how we can take our cultural message to the world. i therefore ask you to convey this message to our governments. the european union is not a party to the treaty on european union, but it is a party to the treaty on european union. in this sense, thank you very much! i would like to invite all those who wish to discuss how we can get started to the members' bar.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again, as a former colleague, i would like to thank the committee on transport and its chairman for the fruitful work they have done when i was a member of parliament and for the cooperation they have given me since i had the honour of being supported, by the vote of parliament, as european commissioner for transport. and this fruitful cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, is also being seen today, because i cannot, on this occasion too, fail to thank parliament, and in particular the committee on transport, chaired by mr costa, for the speed with which they have dealt with the european commission's proposal on the time bands. a number of events - the economic and financial crisis, the new influenza a virus - are further aggravating the situation in the air transport sector, and this situation shows how urgent and indispensable support measures are, not only for airlines but also for airline employees. that said, i share president costa's concern. the commission proposal is not a definitive and final proposal. perhaps it is a proposal to deal with an emergency, but it needs a thorough review to redesign the whole system, so much so that on 15 april, in response to the concerns and comments of president costa, i announced to him, as chairman of the committee, that the services of the european commission's directorate-general for transport and energy are already working to submit a proposal for a rapid revision of the regulation. the suspension of the rule on the use of time bands has already been used twice in the past to deal with the crisis. it is a global response to a global crisis, a response that obviously does not concern one or two member states, it concerns the air transport system of the whole european union and, in the moments of the most serious crisis - the attacks of september 11 and the sars crisis, severe acute respiratory syndrome - similar measures were taken. and the crisis affecting the air transport sector today is probably more serious than any previous one and we have no idea yet when we will start to see improvements. the reality is that traffic is falling all the time. the suspension of the "use it or lose it" rule for the summer season will benefit all airlines, european and non-european, without any discrimination, as iata and many non-european airlines have also stressed. i am sure that this measure, which will be limited in time and will be of an isolated nature - the suspension will be in effect for the period between 29 march and 26 october this year and will then allow slots to be kept in the summer season of next year - will give all the airlines a breathing space, allowing them to cope with the fall in demand. it will also avoid paradoxical situations such as the present one, where companies are forced to fly empty in order not to lose slots, which i also find absolutely unacceptable from an environmental point of view, as well as being harmful to the economies of companies. we know that when a company is in difficulty, the workers who are part of that company are also in difficulty. i am sure that this measure is necessary and urgent, and i can therefore only support the compromise reached between parliament and the council, which will allow the proposal to be adopted immediately. i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on transport and the whole house once again for this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the epp-ed group supports the one-off suspension of the 80% minimum utilisation rule for airlines' rights to take-off and land at airports for the 2010 summer timetable proposed by the commission and thanks rapporteur paolo costa for his swift and effective handling of this dossier. this suspension now allows airlines to cancel flights beyond the minimum planned use in response to declining demand without losing their take-off and landing rights for the next season. i think this is uniquely justified, as the vice-president has said, because there have been unforeseeable declines in passenger numbers as a result of the international financial and economic crisis and because there is no way for airlines to predict how passenger numbers will develop in the future. this suspension is also to protect the environment, as airlines might otherwise feel compelled to operate low-load flights just to keep the slots. but, mr commissioner, mr vice-president, the epp-ed group has rejected from the outset the scheme you have also proposed, which would have empowered the commission to extend the suspension of the rule without any real involvement of parliament, simply by means of the comitology procedure. we believe that if you were to make such a proposal for the winter timetable, parliament would have to consider it carefully, because we would then have to examine more carefully the interests of the airlines - and of very different types of airlines - the interests of the airports and the interests of passengers. so, one-off suspension, yes, but no possibility of extension without parliament's participation. and frankly, i think -- the swine flu doesn't seem to be as bad as we feared -- that the airlines should be able to anticipate what kind of passenger numbers, what kind of connections they might have in the next few years. because we have to expect the airlines to come up with realistic plans so that airports have a chance to offer unused slots to other airlines. our interest must be to ensure that airports can make the best use of their capacity in the interests of their customers, the passengers. i would like to make a comment on the new fundamental revision of the slots directive: in my view slots, the slots, belong to the public, not to airports or airlines, and therefore in future we must pay particular attention to this. at the end of this debate, at the end of this plenary session and at the end of my parliamentary activities, allow me to express my sincere thanks to my colleagues in the committee on transport and in the secretariat of the committee on transport, as well as to the chairman of the committee on transport and the vice-president of the commission and his whole team at dg tren. we have worked well together in the interests of the citizens for the last five years. i'll give you my best for the next five years. the committee on transport is an important committee and i thank you for the good cooperation!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the president, dear colleagues! just a few words in german. the fact that this house is adopting five reports relating to the lisbon treaty at the end of its work in this parliamentary term is an important signal for the european elections and for the period afterwards. this house has always worked continuously and consistently for the reform treaty, even in times when it was difficult and when there were many doubts and when the project was about to be abandoned. we made good progress yesterday with the 'yes' vote in the czech senate. i congratulate the country holding the presidency. (applause from the centre) we now have the justified optimism that this reform project can be implemented by the end of 2009 with a positive vote in ireland. the newly elected european parliament will have a whole host of new opportunities and powers. and this newly elected house of commons in the eu can deliver on the promise that we want to make a better eu with more democratic control and with more transparency. i thank all those who have worked in the committee on constitutional affairs, especially the rapporteurs today, but also the vast majority in this house who have been with us in all the reports to make this progress. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask you, on behalf of the epp-ed group, to reject, in accordance with rule 151 (1) and (3), amendment no 45a tabled by the liberal group, as inadmissible in so far as it concerns statements by pope benedict, on the following grounds: this statement was made in 2009, the report deals with human rights violations in 2008. that is why this motion does not change the text it seeks to change. secondly, this amendment compares the pope's statements to human rights violations of the gravest kind, the use of the death penalty, human rights violations in china, torture everywhere. this comparison is a cynical disregard for the victims of human rights violations all over the world! (applause from the centre) it is also such an incredible accusation, such an incredible discrimination against the pope, that the alde group may identify with it, but the european parliament should not do so under any circumstances! (applause from the centre and the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the right to self-determination, mr nassauer, is a human right and that includes sexual self-determination. in this respect, it was already relevant in 2008 and what was said there is extremely unfortunate. i read amendment no 2 as amended, which is a factual correction and a somewhat more balanced wording: underlines the importance of promoting sexual and reproductive health rights as a precondition for any successful fight against hiv/aids, which causes enormous loss in terms of human lives and economic development, affecting particularly the poorest regions in the world; is concerned about statements made by pope benedict xvi which create the impression that condom use could even lead to an increased risk of contagion; is of the opinion that those statements will severely hamper the fight against hiv/aids; the remainder of the amendment remains unchanged. (applause from the left)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the amendment is not as clumsy in tone as the original, but it is unchanged in substance. that is why we reject the oral amendment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also thank the house for rejecting the scandalous attack by the liberals on the pope. even in the slightly more refined words of count lambsdorff, it would have been a scandalous statement. i must say quite clearly that the greatest moral authority of the 21st century, which has far-reaching effects on more than a billion catholics and which gives europe and the world its support, is being tried here on the same level as torturers, human rights abusers, dictators, which is an unheard-of act that will fall back on the liberal group and also on the german fdp!
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. bavaria and its municipalities have a wide range of contacts throughout the world, not least the catholic university of eichstätt, and i welcome a delegation of mayors from this region. madagascar is a country with which we are working particularly closely and intensively. there are many cultural, economic and scientific contacts and also a strong presence of church aid. i therefore regret all the more that in this country, so beautiful in its scenery and so rich in culture, there are such appalling abuses. the european union has already made a major contribution to the development of the african continent. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i am therefore glad that the contact group met a few days ago to discuss the first concrete steps. we must create a kind of structure that prepares for new elections under the leadership of the deposed democratically elected president, whom we still recognize as the only legitimate head of state. there must be a dialogue involving the prime minister, who is in prison and must be released immediately. not only humanitarian aid but also development aid, which is vital for people's lives, especially medical care, must continue in full. for all these reasons, we are needed as the european union, not only as a humanitarian factor and not only as an economic factor, but above all as a political factor for peace, which is involved in the negotiations. we are very much looking forward to cooperation with the african union, which has the opportunity here once again to establish itself step by step as a factor of democratic stabilisation - stabilization can also be anti-democratic - and we want to support this with our resources. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. 20 years ago, socialism collapsed at the pan-european picnic on the austro-hungarian border. i had the honour of helping to prepare this, and i shall never forget how shortly afterwards the chancellor of unity, helmut kohl, and pope john paul ii, two of the forerunners of this development, stepped through the brandenburg gate and said: 'socialism must not be replaced by predatory capitalism, but by freedom and a social market economy'. today we are witnessing in latin america a dangerous regression towards socialist dictatorship and oppression. the germ from which this is coming is, unfortunately, god's venezuela. president chávez is trying to stifle freedom throughout latin america with oil money. that is why this case of mr rosales is very important. mr rosales is not only a great democrat for whom we must fight, but he is also a symbol of democracy in latin america. we want to support him and continue to stand up for the freedom of the peoples of latin america!
i am not going to go into detail. in accordance with the act establishing direct elections to the european parliament, i hereby declare the first sitting of the european parliament after the elections to be open. (applause from the centre) i would ask you to rise for the european anthem. the commission i am not going to go into detail. i should like to welcome you to the first sitting of the european parliament after the elections and to congratulate all of you: the re-elected members and the newly elected members. just under half of the 736 meps have been elected to the european parliament for the first time. what is particularly encouraging is that 35% of meps are women - a proportion that has never been higher in the european parliament! (applause from the centre) 170 million citizens have voted and our work serves a great goal: the unification of our continent! let 's not forget that when we work , the european union is based on values. the dignity of the human person, human rights, freedom, democracy, law and peace are the basis of our actions. we are bound together by solidarity. i ask that we always be guided by respect and esteem for one another. if that is the case, we will succeed. let's get to work.
we must proceed this morning to the election of the president, in accordance with the provisions of our rules of procedure. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i have received the following nominations for the office of president of the european parliament under the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure: mr jerzy buzek mrs eva-britt svensson the candidates have informed me that they agree with their candidacy. the two candidates will now make a brief introduction, and i would first like to ask mrs eva-britt svensson to do so.
i now announce the election results. number of electors: 713 unfilled or invalid ballots: 69 the vote was 644 . the council adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. (applause from the centre and the right) the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. (applause from the centre) the commission has therefore decided to make a proposal to the council for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. i can repeat in my own language what i have just tried to say in polish: i congratulate jerzy buzek very, very warmly on his convincing election, i wish him all the best for this wonderful task he is about to take on, and i can ask him to take his seat in the chair. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i congratulate you on your election on behalf of our group. we supported this election. and while the term 'historic moment' should certainly be used with caution, i would say that your election as president of the european parliament is a historic moment. (applause from the centre) because 20 years after the fall of the berlin wall, six years after the accession of your country and many other central and eastern european countries to the european union - a process which you yourself, as prime minister of your country, initiated, because accession negotiations were started during your time in office - 20 years after the overcoming of the division of the world into two armed blocs, after the overcoming of the stalinist dictatorships, the states which have suffered under these dictatorships for 40 years longer than the western part of europe has suffered under the fascist dictatorships, the fact that 20 years later it must be taken for granted that polish mps, hungarian mps, baltic mps, czech mps, slovak mps, delegates from any of the countries of the european union, whatever their country's elected representatives, have been elected to the european union - a process which you yourself initiated as prime minister of your country, because the accession negotiations were started during your time in office - that 20 years after the overcoming of the division of the world into two armed blocs, after the overcoming of the stalinist dictatorships, the states which have suffered under these dictatorships for more than the western part of europe has suffered under the fascist dictatorships, the fact that 20 years later it must be taken for granted that polish mps, hungarian mps, baltic mps, czech mps, slovak mps, slovak mps, slovak mps, meps, meps from any other countries of the european union, meps from any of the european union, meps from any country who have been elected in the european union, and i think that we can only be represented the european union, that we can only in this parliament, that we have been in this parliament, that we i therefore believe that your presidency is also an appeal to us all, and that the values on which this union was founded are the values that have cornered dictators and overcome dictatorships. it is the wish of our group that these values should accompany your presidency. i would like to congratulate you on your achievements, mr buzek. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to add my voice on behalf of my group to the congratulations of the previous speakers. we share the joy of this moment. i think you've understated a little, mr. president, when you say it's an honor for you to take on this position that we elected you to today. it is rather an honour for us - at least from the point of view of the green group - to have you as president. you've earned what you're about to do with your entire political life, and we all have high hopes for you. i am not sure that in two and a half years we will be able to overcome the divisions between east and west that still exist in the european union, but i believe that with you at the head of this house we can strengthen the bridges between east and west. i personally hope that it will become clear to our colleagues from western europe in particular that poland is in the middle of the continent, that you come from a country in the centre of the continent and that work towards the east must be done much more intensively than before. you bring the very best conditions for that. i was very pleased when you said that we should seek to be close to the citizen. we are always with you as the green group. it is one thing to strengthen europe internally, but it is another to think of europe as something bigger. let me make one more personal request: after having known you particularly well in the streets and squares of kiev during the orange revolution - and also as a very courageous politician - let us not forget ukraine when we turn to the east. better times are coming there too! i would personally like to see the european football championships - which are not long away - in poland and ukraine, when they take place, to be held together. i wish you much success in your work. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i am glad that a polish neighbour has become the president of this house. i'm from east germany and i work near słubice. słubice and frankfurt/oder are already part of a common europe. i would like to thank you for your attention to the further integration of eastern and western europe. it's gonna be a long road, as we know. i would also like to draw attention to the great contribution that polish culture can make to a europe of cooperation and cultural diversity. i hope i can speak to you in more detail in the future. i've started to do something about it. two of my sons speak polish. and i had the honor of presenting the andrzej wajda film prize in a laudatory speech to the director andreas dresen. andrzej wajda and other polish directors are part of european culture. i hope that western and eastern europe will not forget the special achievements of eastern european culture. mr president, you will have our respectful support!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask you to ring the bell because i notice that many colleagues from all the groups are absent. a lot of people think the election's not until 7:30. so i'm going to ask you to ring the bell again.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not first of all, let me congratulate you on your election. i wish you good luck and success for the next two and a half years! even without headphones, i could understand your last reminder: we should stick to our speaking time. mr. prime minister, your predecessor did not have an easy start, nor a good one. the focus was right on energy, economics and foreign relations, but as so often in life, planning and reality are sometimes two different pairs of shoes. the council presidency has been very successful in the gaza conflict without having organized a common european line beforehand. in the gas dispute between russia and ukraine, millions of people had to freeze to death before your government gave up its reluctance and mediated. but then, with success! there was success elsewhere, despite all the criticism. it is the lasting merit of the czech presidency that the european union did not make the mistake of drifting into protectionism as it did in the 1930s. that was and is still a real danger. the presidency, supported in particular by the commissioner for competition, has shown a clear line in this respect. some want to use the crisis to promote a new economic nationalism. that would be fatal! for liberals and democrats, free and undistorted competition, as enshrined in the treaties, is the way to growth and prosperity. but if our citizens are to accept free competition, they want and must be sure that it is conducted on equal terms for all. the distortion of competition, the isolation of the market, the preference given to national companies - all this leads not to an exit from the crisis but to a dead end. the czech republic, as a new member, has had to give a regulation to many old member states during its presidency, which is unfortunately necessary but correct: the internal market must not be undermined and rules must be respected. only against the constant interference from prague castle and the vote of no confidence was the czech government helpless in the end. her fall in the middle of the presidency, that had never happened before. all europe was looking at prague in wonder. the czech political class has not done its country or europe any service by taking this step. mr prime minister, you have shown that, as in football, you can still turn a game in politics if you are replaced after halftime. the june european council set the stage for a new financial market supervision regime. it is now up to the commission to pursue this initiative with determination. they negotiated the guarantees for ireland, so hopefully the referendum on 2 october will be successful. the member states have formally agreed on a candidate for the office of president of the commission, thus fulfilling an important demand of our group. mr prime minister, you have done a good job and earned great respect. the first czech presidency of the council, however, will not be able to take the place in history that we all hoped for. but what should remain with us is its motto 'a europe without frontiers'.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is rather difficult to take stock of the progress that should have been made during the czech presidency. i have made a great effort on behalf of my group, but what we wished for - namely that the czech presidency of the council would rise to the challenge - has not actually happened. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are many announcements to reassure the citizens, but few actions. on the economic crisis: the european recovery plan - it is almost embarrassing to me that it is always referred to - is only an alibi programme so that one can even talk about european economic programming; there is no real content! it amounts to only five billion euros and then there is the petty dispute about how to spend those five billion. i don't think you should wear it. a programme for which we have worked very hard, namely a coherent programme for energy efficiency in europe which would have saved us millions of jobs, this programme has not really been taken into account. on the climate crisis, i don't have to go to the trouble of green politicians to evaluate the politics of this area. ivo de boer, the chief negotiator of the united nations, and ban ki-moon wrote to us after the last bonn conference that all the countries in the world that have claimed to take the lead in this global policy to combat the climate crisis are far from doing what is really necessary. if we take european energy policy as a yardstick of our willingness to do what we really want to do as europeans, i do not think we can really see the eternal competing strategy so clearly demonstrated by the northstream or nabucco projects as a start towards a common european energy policy with a future. what's the reason? what are the causes? i do not think that you really need to be criticised here, mr fischer, but the country to which my group's chairman, daniel cohn-bendit, had to carry the european flag in his backpack and hand it to the president was indeed weak. and, unfortunately, mr barroso, although your strength is often mentioned now, where was your strength in times of weakness during this presidency of the council? we didn't feel them! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr prime minister, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! in this debate, many of the czech presidency of the council are now expressing their gratitude for having managed to complete some administrative projects at the end of its term. i ask myself seriously: have we become so modest? we're actually doing politics! in fact, we expect that in the biggest economic crisis in decades with environmental challenges, a presidency that designs visionary will be at the forefront! we'd expect that. we have seen the administrative work being done on what is still on the table at the end of the mandate. i expected more! mr president, if you meet president klaus tonight, tell him that he had the opportunity to make clear the czech national identity and sovereignty in a strong leadership for europe during this six months. he had been campaigning here in parliament for the importance of national sovereignty. he's wasted his chance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say again that under the conditions which neither prime minister topolánek nor prime minister fischer represent, the presidency of the council is a better success than it seems, and i would like to thank saša vondra in particular for the preparation of this presidency! i would like to make a second comment in reply to mr higgins. the lisbon treaty provides for a horizontal social clause. it provides for more social rights and the charter of fundamental rights. if this treaty is not signed, we shall have a less social europe! i think that this should be made clear so that the people of ireland can no longer be told lies. you should tell the truth. without the treaty of lisbon, we will remain in nice, and thus in a less social europe. that is why we should stop this bad campaign and tell the people of ireland the truth! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out that the czech presidency of the council has not only done more than it is said to have done, but has also been very differentiated. the first-class civil service, excellent ministers such as prince schwarzenberg, saša vondra, ondřej liška and others, and prime minister fischer have done an excellent job. i want to thank you for that. the only problem this country has is president klaus, who has done his country a great deal of harm by deliberately and deliberately torpedoing this successful presidency of the council. i thank prime minister fischer for the way in which he has rejected sovereignty, for going to the brussels summit himself and for successfully concluding this presidency of the council himself!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the swedish presidency is entering a period of institutional re-launch. not only is this parliament starting over, but europe is in a period of transition between the treaty of nice and the treaty of lisbon. and this is - as we all know - a time of uncertainty, but one in which we still need clarity on the economic, fiscal, labour market and climate policy directions in the european union and its member states. you have made some statements on this, many of which i think are correct. of course, climate change is the number one issue, and you put it in the right place. and of course, the job crisis requires an immediate and timely solution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what we need above all is to secure jobs now, not next year, because the threat to jobs is now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is why we expect you to put jobs and job security in whatever form, for example through the combination of environmental and industrial policy - that is very, very smart - at the very top. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one. what is seriously endangering jobs in europe and what is even more seriously endangering social cohesion is the case law of the european court of justice. they come, as you just said, a lot in sweden and in europe. we're going to. and what we hear from the citizens is: we do not want a europe of companies dumping wages. that is why we need initiatives from the european union! (applause from the centre) we need these initiatives in the wake of the judgments of the ecj in the laval, viking, rüffert and luxembourg cases. these are measures which you - and you in particular, because sweden is affected by this wrong policy, this wrong jurisprudence - will have to tackle during your presidency. you must also tackle another institutional question, namely how the next commission will be appointed. i have to tell you that not only you but all your colleagues in the council have a feeling that this institutional re-launch and the uncertainty about the basis on which we are actually acting has become so common that nobody really knows what film he is in. this is a bit like astrid lindgren in the villa kunterbunt of pippi longstocking. i make the world the way i want it. it's wonderful. if we appoint the president of the commission on the basis of the treaty of nice, we have 20 commissioners. then i want to know which country doesn't get a commissioner! the council is of course saying: no, we do not want to start this bloodbath behind closed doors. so we have a wonderful solution: we nominate him on the basis of the treaty of nice, it takes a few months for the commission to be set up, the irish have voted, we have the treaty of lisbon and then we vote on the rest on the basis of the treaty of lisbon. - thank you. we are a community of law - at least that is what i have believed so far - in which the basis is the law in force. the law in force is the treaty of nice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. this is the president of the commission. i haven't heard a word from him about that! i would therefore like to make it quite clear what we expect. i had suggested to you, mr prime minister reinfeldt, that you not take the decision to formalise it immediately but first send your candidate to parliament so that he can say what he wants to do to revive the economy, to secure jobs, to combat climate change, to have an employment pact, to have an initiative for a directive on public services, to have an initiative to improve the posting directive, to have a guarantee between the commission and the european parliament on the evaluation of the social impact of the commission's initiatives. we have been discussing all this with the candidate for weeks, and we would have liked to see if he could get a majority in this house on the basis of his proposals. and then you could have decided on a formalization. they've gone the other way now. they said, "no, we'll make the formalization decision first and then send the candidate". i fear that this was another mistake, and i fear that if this candidate does not put forth a great effort, he will not have a majority in this house. (applause from the centre) i want to make this very clear so that the main point of contention that is likely to be in your presidency is clear between us from the very beginning. we expect institutional clarity, we expect social commitment, and i think we will follow you on climate policy. mr president, as a gift to you, i have kept the speaking time exactly, you will see that in a few seconds my six minutes will be up, you do not need to reproach me, i knew that you had this in mind, i did not want to give it to you! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. my colleague martin schulz has said all there is to say about the institutional concerns my group has had for some time in view of the forthcoming election of the president of the commission. we agree. we want to elect the entire commission and all the top officials of the european union under the conditions of the lisbon treaty. we're not going to deviate from that. however, mr barroso, i would like to take this opportunity to explain politically why my group has doubts and does not believe that we can entrust to you politically what we consider necessary in the current situation in europe. let us take the often-cited need for the re-regulation of the financial markets. we have had g8 summits, g20 summits, enlarged g8 summits, european summits. how far have we come? if you look at the picture today and compare it to the well-known game of monopoly, the banks have been re-established, they have gone over the "loose" once, they have not gone to jail, they have withdrawn hundreds of billions of dollars with public applause and have simply and poignantly reopened the game. i don't think it's catastrophistic to say that the next crash is pre-programmed. mr barroso, where was your consistent intervention? where are your real results? we can't see them! (applause from the centre) climate policy: you know that we greens have been campaigning throughout our european campaign for the green new deal. we are firmly convinced that it is completely wrong to do what you have done over and over again in the last five years, mr barroso, namely to play economic strategies against environmental and climate strategies. we believe that this is really yesterday, that it has to be over. we must think about economic development in a sustainable way, we must reconcile climate and environmental objectives! this is good for the economy, it creates hundreds of thousands or even millions of jobs. andris piebalgs has backed this up with a study for the energy sector in recent months. we see that, mr barroso, with the experience we have gained, you are not in a position to present this green new deal. i can only summarise what i have seen in recent months in the international climate change arena: the europeans have been glittering with new hesitancy - how far do we really want to go with the reduction targets? - and, unfortunately, the swedes have been glittering with new greed. the international fund for climate change's funding for the poorer countries has really gone very, very badly. it is still a mystery that the swedes want to reduce the development aid for example in favour of this climate summit, this is a zero-sum game and from the point of view of the poorer countries it is not at all acceptable! we must put an end to this new greed and hesitation on the part of the european union! (applause from the centre) mr reinfeldt, i can say one positive thing in conclusion: we are ready to discuss and work with you on the redefinition of the lisbon strategy. they've got it set for the end of the year. we're in on it. we are also with you if you want to make the european union more like eastern europe, like russia, but the emphasis on a real climate policy must not only be in the headlines, it must also be corrected in the small print of the swedish programme! (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, mr prime minister reinfeldt, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the swedish presidency has put forward an ambitious work programme. the aim is to increase transparency. transparency should also apply in particular to the management of the crisis in which we live. the causes of the crisis are seen by many as being confined to distant america and a few bankers. they're greedy, they say. the eu heads of government seem to have nothing to do with the crisis. you are innocent. those who bathe in innocence do nothing to deal with the crisis! i think transparency also includes talking about the policy mistakes that have contributed to the crisis. and then, of course, bankers. transparency is the order of the day in casino capitalism! we are looking forward to the baltic sea strategy and i would agree with the president of the council if he were to focus on dialogue with russia. we also want the european union's support for the intentions of obama and medvedev with regard to the reduction of nuclear weapons. the european union should seize this new opportunity for disarmament. the swedish presidency of the council wants further harmonisation of asylum law. the european union should also be made more attractive to migrant workers. the commission is also proposing to make a number of changes to the current system of national asylum systems. we are all very well aware of this, but at the european union's heavily guarded external borders, especially in the mediterranean, thousands of people die every year seeking refuge from persecution, poverty, natural disasters and war. despite costly border control, surveillance and data collection systems to combat illegal migration, the gue/ngl calls for a humane treatment of refugees and migrants and for a different economic and trade policy to effectively tackle the causes of flight. the swedish presidency is focusing on more inclusive labour markets to create full employment and will therefore push for labour market reforms and gender equality measures. we are also in favour of a concept of good work which supports wage increases and the introduction of a universal statutory minimum wage in all 27 countries. we want the eu to agree on a minimum wage target of at least 60% of the national average wage to prevent poverty despite working. i welcome what you have said about cyprus and wish you every success in implementing the ambitious climate targets.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! i would like to welcome and congratulate the swedes for having found their way to europe in a long process, as the prime minister said. we are very pleased that the swedes are among the best europeans today! you have presented your programme: very ambitious, very ambitious! but i would ask you to consider whether sweden dares to take the step of joining the euro, even after the experience of the financial market crisis - especially since you said that the stability and growth pact must be respected! they do not have an opt-out clause like the uk and denmark, and they meet the conditions now. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is the world's largest exporter of goods and services. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on it. all other projects will have no chance unless the financial and economic crisis is resolved as soon as possible. and for that, we need clear rules. it's not enough that the city of london is now in charge again. we need clear rules in the social market economy, because without rules the market economy is not capable of action and is not a majority economy. and so you should re-examine - with all the goodwill for your programme - whether you are not taking the issue of dealing with the financial market crisis even higher than you have done so far. thank you and good luck in a difficult time of change! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think you need to explain something to me, because we're running a test. in this test, you can only choose two people, pavarotti and montserrat caballe. but later on, in the quaestors, you can choose five people. i want to make that clear again. this is causing confusion among many of my colleagues. only in this test can you choose two people, later in the voting it is five.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the gue/ngl group is deeply concerned about the continuing violence in iran. we too condemn in the strongest terms the brutal treatment of demonstrators. we are deeply concerned about the fate of the many detainees and call for their immediate release, and we believe that the european parliament as a whole should do the same. we also criticize comments from media and government circles in other countries that exploit the legitimate protest of iranian citizens. the recent developments in iran do not justify plans for a military strike against iranian nuclear facilities. my group rejects such strategies. we therefore welcome the clear words of president obama, who has given israel absolutely no green light to attack iran. the american president is also relying on diplomacy. iran is sovereign. only its people have the right to decide on social developments. the government of a sovereign state must openly accept the desire for change and pursue a political solution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is good that we are having this debate in the first week of the new parliament. unfortunately, our group chairmen voted against a resolution. i was wondering who was being considered here. a resolution would have been helpful to the dissidents in iran if we had confirmed to them with a presentable statement that what was officially called the presidential election was in no way in line with international democratic standards, because most of the candidates were excluded from the guardian council and because even those who were allowed to run could not be said to have had equal conditions. therefore, one can draw the political conclusion and say without reservation that the announced election result does not reflect the will of the iranian people. when we as the eu actively use our instrument for democracy and human rights, we support the vibrant civil society or even lawyers like shirin ebadi, who is advocating for the imprisoned baha'is there. i believe that this is the policy we can implement in the short term. (applause from the centre)
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, another debate of, needless to say, some importance. and, although the subject is china, it of course takes place against the background of some significant developments in xinjiang in the western part of china. i know that these events have been followed by many members of this parliament as well as our respective national parliaments throughout europe. we have also, as a council, expressed our concern over the reports on the unrest there and called for restraint on all sides and for the situation to be resolved peacefully. i think it is time for us to say that we attach great importance to human rights. we also profoundly regret not only the loss of life but the destruction of property and everything else that we have seen happening and we can only condemn those that are responsible for it, whoever they are. but let me also take this opportunity to take stock somewhat more widely of our relationship with china, a country with which we have an extraordinary range of complex relationships. in fact, when we decided in 2003 to set up those relationships within the framework of a comprehensive strategic partnership, we were committing ourselves to an extremely ambitious enterprise, and this is very much reflected in the broad and wide-ranging relationship which we have with china today. complexity of course brings opportunities. it also brings challenges of different sorts. what we have tried to do with this relationship is to open it up to the point where we can discuss frankly and openly any concern that we might have on either side. the basis for such an open dialogue is the shared interest that we have in developing our relationship, our shared interest in global peace and stability. we pursue this through dialogue and through multilateralism. we have the annual summit meetings and we have fairly frequent meetings at the level of foreign ministers. we also have an intense biannual human rights dialogue and then of course sectoral dialogues on different issues, trade obviously being one of particular importance. we also have the annual high-level dialogue on trade and economic issues. as you are aware, in 2007 we also launched negotiations for a partnership and cooperation agreement. negotiations are progressing but still there is a potential to increase efforts on both sides in these negotiations. we have a very clear interest in developing the relationship with china in all fields, and that entails, as i said, the possibility for an open and frank dialogue, also on issues where our values might be different, and we know that such issues exist, including human rights, including issues like the use of the death sentence; but also to pursue the common interest that, needless to say, we have these days: issues of global financial stability, issues of how to deal with the climate change challenge are important. also important are foreign policy issues, be that the situation we face over the korean peninsula with the provocation by the dprk, or the situation in burma, where we are concerned, obviously, at what we see happening, but our concern also stretches to the situation in africa and the need to protect the vital sea routes around the horn of africa. i will not go further into this question now, but wish only to underline the concern that we have over developments, without being able to assess those in every single detail because they are exceedingly complex, our hope that they could be resolved peacefully and our readiness to engage with the chinese authorities in a frank dialogue on these issues, as well as on the broad range of other interests that we share together and that we need to have a dialogue on.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is a sign of the importance that this house attaches to our strategic relationship with china that this debate has been scheduled during your inaugural session. i yet again welcome the opportunity to contribute with a brief outline of the perspective of the commission on behalf of my colleague benita ferrero-waldner, who, i have indicated, is unfortunately travelling this week and cannot be here. i do not need to remind this house of the huge progress we have made in relations with china since our first summit, now 10 years ago. economic and trade relations have been transformed, people-to-people contacts are multiplying and we are engaged in dialogue on an ever-increasing range of issues. following the last eu-china summit in may, negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement are proceeding well and we are able to take advantage of a growing number of high-level contacts, including prime minister wen’s highly successful visit to president barroso earlier this year and the meeting of the high-level economic and trade dialogue which i co-chaired with vice-premier wang qishan. today we are naturally focused on global challenges, including the economic and financial crisis and climate change, as well as regional issues. at the same time, we have strong interests in the situation inside china, where we witness many spectacular achievements but also developments that cause concern. china’s policy of opening up its economy has lifted hundreds of millions out of poverty and helped the world progress towards the important millennium development goals. yet china is a huge country with considerable internal challenges and differences between its regions. the strength of our strategic partnership also allows for constructive and open exchange of views on issues where europe and china diverge. this can be on aspects of our trade relationship or human rights – for example over tibet, which i know is of particular interest in this house. recently we expressed strong concern over the unrest in xinjiang, deplored the loss of life, and expressed our condolences and sympathy to the families of the victims. we have called on all parties to show restraint and bring an immediate end to all acts of violence. we hope the situation can be resolved peacefully through dialogue without further bloodshed. the eu has tried, over the years, to convey to the chinese authorities its worries over the situation of ethnic minorities in china and to share its own experience, many times painful, on how to address the causes of marginalisation, exclusion and discrimination that those minorities often face. we all share the goal of a more open, transparent china adhering to international standards on human rights and working together to address global challenges. to achieve this, we must continue to integrate china deeper into the international community and work on the development of our strategic partnership in the spirit of constructive engagement.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i can agree with the basic arguments put forward by the previous speakers from the council and the commission. i also believe that we should continue the one-china policy, that china's cohesion as a unified state is guaranteed, that we do not want to attack all this. of course, we do not tolerate violence, whether it is violence by protesters in certain circumstances, or state violence against protesters as it has been done. i was going to send all this in advance. but you also have to understand that in china, the violence of the central state, which does not generate sufficient understanding in this multiethnic state with many cultural differences, will be a recurring problem. for this reason, greater cultural autonomy, greater mobility, possibilities relating to the security of identity and language are prerequisites for a multiethnic state to be able to live together under one roof. chinese history has always been one of breaking out and reuniting with great violent action. this is repeatedly demonstrated in chinese history. we must come to the realization that we cannot continue in this way, and we must introduce this autonomy here. the uighurs are a moderate sunni minority. they do not pose an immediate threat of terrorism. the danger is therefore the same as in tibet: if we do not reach an agreement with the moderates, there will be more and more young radicals who cannot or will not wait. for this reason, a solution in the sense of identity delays a solution in the long term. so the chinese government is very ill advised to talk only about terrorists, to talk only about wanting to destroy the unity of the state, that foreign forces like al qaeda and so on are behind it. i think that's not the solution for this country, and that's why we should make it clear that we don't accept such a policy. all this is understood under the premise i set out at the outset.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i condemn the violence on both sides, on the han chinese and uighur side, and i mourn all the innocent victims. but this is not a conflict of equal strength. the uighurs are an oppressed people of nine million. i see a failed minority policy in the people's republic of china. there is no such thing as a harmonious society, as the chinese communist party claims. there is as little cultural autonomy in xinjiang, the uighur region, as there is in tibet. there is no real self-government, even if these regions are called that, and especially - and this is very crucial especially for the young generation - there are no equal social and economic rights for the uyghurs. but the ccp has only one charge, only one monotonous charge, and that is criminal separatism. anyone who advocates human rights and democracy in china runs the risk of being branded a criminal and a separatist. but the people's republic of china must understand that only by guaranteeing minority rights is there a real chance of internal peace. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a very important last remark to the swedish presidency of the council: yes, it is true, we have an interest in a strategic partnership with china because of climate policy, because of general foreign policy issues. but we cannot sacrifice human rights and criticism of the human rights situation in china to a strategic interest, but our strategic policy towards china must include clear words on minority policy and human rights violations in china!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today's debate once again proves that the council is the weak point of the eu. this house has a very clear position on human rights, and for the commission, lady ashton has been impressively clear here. all i've heard from the council is that both sides are being prosecuted for violence. of course, uyghur violence is also to be condemned! but can it be compared with the fact that a communist dictatorship, which has learned nothing from the massacre in tiananmen square, brutally and bloody oppresses an entire people and threatens that people with ethnic genocide through a targeted settlement policy? can it be compared with incidents that are merely the expression of chinese propaganda and have not been investigated by anyone internationally? i can't believe this! the uighurs are now accused of separatism. but is it separatism if a house is on fire and i try to run out of the house? is it separatism if i'm wrongfully imprisoned and try to escape? this is not separatism, this is the expression of the will to live! if you give the uighurs in china a space to live in their homeland in freedom and dignity and independence, then there will be no more separatism. it's the only way to fight separatism. the uighurs are not a minority, they are a people like the swedes, which is smaller than the han chinese. but is a people wrong just because it is the smaller one? and should we bow to a power just because it is the greater? i don't think he did. we have therefore a great responsibility as the european union. i represent munich here. the world uyghur congress is in munich. we used to have radio liberty and radio free europe in munich. we are still proud to be the voice of freedom back then. i am sure that one day we will be just as proud of being the center of the free uyghurs, and i hope that one day all uyghurs will enjoy this freedom!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. one thing must be said very clearly: in china we have a unified system and we do not want to let it break up! we respect the chinese system. however, that does not mean that ... (interruption by mr posselt) we respect a unified system of china. but that doesn't mean that the diversity of the peoples in china doesn't need to be respected. and that is what we social democrats are demanding. we want the civil rights, the human rights, the freedom of the people in china to be respected. we want freedom of speech to be respected. we want journalists to be able to move freely so that they can also report on the real situation. that's what we want. and let us make one thing very clear to our colleagues in china: we expect them to accept that what is a principle for us is a principle in china, namely that human rights are universal. what the politicians keep telling us let us solve the social problems first and then we can talk about human rights this is the wrong way! it's gotta be the other way around. first, human rights and then social rights, because they are simply part of it, they cannot be separated. that is why i was very disappointed, mr bildt, by what you said! i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. this is not the approach we need, but we are asking for the approach which the european commission has also set out to us, namely to say: first, we want to have a common basis for our work, on which we can build our cooperation! we want cooperation, that is clear, but not on any basis, but on a proper basis, respecting human dignity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are conducting this discussion on the basis of the universality of human rights, but also on the basis of the need for global partnership. it has been said that we are a harmonious society. this is the slogan of the ccp, but it is also more: it is the deep hope of the chinese people. a harmonious society is not simply the same as the concealment of authoritarian conditions. i think it might be a task for us to help the chinese people in the realization of a harmonious society. partnership is about clear communication. when we talk about xinjiang, the word uighurs should be mentioned! however, a clear debate is something quite different from the spirit of confrontation, which we should avoid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. now, mr posselt, i know that your bavarian party understands something of this, but i think we should rather speak as mr brok does about continuing the one-china policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that this conflict is often presented as one-sided. i can agree with the speaker that the current case is really very often about attacks by uighurs on han chinese, and attacks that also have some racist backgrounds. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i read an interview with a uyghur woman who said, "do you want to be ruled by yellow communists?" the uighurs enjoy many privileges in their region, such as having several children, practicing their religion during working hours, and much more. there's also a lot of envy from the local han chinese. that is why we must look at it very carefully and study cause and effect. sometimes problems are not as they seem or should be. we should be careful not to take a one-sided position. we should help the chinese solve their problems. the one-sided view that is very often presented here is, i believe, very dangerous. the chinese government admits to shortcomings in its minority policy. she also admits to some failings. but it also shows a willingness to improve many things. we should help by cooperating in a spirit of trust and, of course, also of criticism.
in writing. conflict for millions of uighurs in china - dialogue instead of condemnation we mourn the bloody clashes, the dead and wounded in xinjiang uighur. the actions of the police and security forces were deficient and harmful to the chinese government's goals of growth and stability. at the same time, it is wrong to accuse china of 'cultural genocide'. the government is keen to strike a balance between minority autonomy and modernisation in a multi-ethnic state. it is also our responsibility to support china's rule of law and democratic development in partnership, without ignoring its historical, geographical and cultural specificities. one-sided lectures stifle any dialogue. and they do not replace policies for an improved guarantee of human rights. china is an important partner for europe - alongside the us and russia. the overcoming of the financial crisis, the fight against poverty, the halting of climate change, energy security and water supply are not achievable without the efforts of the prc. the majority of the uyghurs are relieved of the events of the past few weeks and above all want to live in peace again. the chinese government knows that this conflict cannot be resolved by force. we can support dialogue between the han chinese and the uyghurs and other minorities rather than continue decades of foreign interference with inadequate means. the european parliament has a key role to play in institutionalising dialogue on the development of the rule of law in china.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we received very sad news yesterday from grozny, chechnya. the journalist natalia estemirova, who was well known to all of us in the group, was murdered there. she was found dead just over the border between chechnya and ingushetia after being kidnapped in grozny. natalia estemirova has been working very, very hard for memorial in chechnya. we would ask you to comply with our request and to commemorate this very dedicated journalist and activist for freedom and human rights in chechnya with a minute of silence. (applause from the centre)
the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments. the commission is not mr cohn-bendit has taken up a motion which my group put forward at the conference of presidents last week. we have put forward this motion because we believe that the reason for the confusion is not so much the question of the irish referendum, nor the question of the constitutional court in prague, but the question of the lack of cohesion in the council's ideas. it is quite clear that a community of law and the european union calls itself a community of law must act on the basis of the law in force. the law in force is the treaty of nice. so there is no alternative to working with the nice treaty, and that is with the president and all the commissioners. the council wants to elect the president on the basis of the treaty of nice and then do what mr cohn-bendit has suggested, namely apply the treaty of lisbon to the commissioners, which would mean that we have a president of the commission elected on a different legal basis from his commissioners - something which the president of the commission himself very much regrets. that is why he is already going around talking about the lisbon majority which he needs but will not get. this alone shows that the confusion caused by the council is not in the interests of the eu and the president of the commission himself. that is why we thought that the vote should be postponed until the council had agreed on what it wanted. therefore, supporting this ..... (the president cut the speaker off) ) we believe that the postponement is necessary for reasons which are slightly different from those mentioned by mr cohn-bendit and we support this motion for the reasons we have set out.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very grateful to you for giving me the opportunity today to comment on the situation in the european automotive industry, to inform you about some aspects of our european response to the crisis and about the developments around the general motors group. i shall be speaking on the industrial and social aspects, and my colleague, neelie kroes, will be speaking on the aid aspects. 12 million workers are directly or indirectly employed by european car manufacturers. this is why the commission met with all stakeholders, including member states and social partners, in october 2008 as part of the cars-21 process to discuss a common approach to crisis management. the meeting discussed scrappage premiums and additional eib financing to prevent this sector, which is important for employment, from being swallowed up by the crisis. we must also act to ensure that our legal commitments to reduce co2 emissions from cars by 2012 are not jeopardised by the crisis. i'll get back to you on that. the commission, concerned about the developments around general motors, had already called a political meeting of all member states in january this year to create transparency to ensure compliance with european rules. three such meetings have taken place so far. these meetings have been the occasion for the adoption and publication of joint political agreements within the 27 member states. first, it was agreed that the german-coordinated trust arrangement was the right way to protect general motors europe from the insolvency of its american parent. we can now say that this trust arrangement has prevented the european car manufacturers from being dragged into the bankruptcy of general motors. secondly, it was agreed that the trust arrangement does not constitute a prior decision in favour of a bidder. as regards the selection of a bidder, the commission has stated from the outset that it will be neutral, otherwise the commission cannot fulfil its role as guardian of the contracts. it was also agreed that all national safeguard measures must be fully compatible with the state aid and internal market provisions of the ec treaty. state aid must therefore not be made conditional on political conditions such as the location of the investments. the eu treaty has no place for economic nationalism. public funds may only be used exceptionally and only where sustainable economic structures with sustainable jobs are created. all decisions must be based on economic rationality alone, but as i said, neelie kroes will comment in detail on the aid issues in the following. the fact that gm will retain 35% of the shares is a clear indication that gm is counting on the economic recovery of its former european subsidiary. i also welcome the fact that 10% of the shares will remain in the hands of the employees. the commission has been engaged in dialogue with all stakeholders since january 2009, both at the operational and political levels. all the member states - and today the flemish prime minister - welcome and support the commission's position on the future of general motors europe. the commission has all the instruments to enforce compliance with all the agreements. i would like to stress once again that we will not allow taxpayers' money to be spent on short-term political considerations rather than long-term interests in the location and employment of the workplace. certainly, in times of crisis, many people are closer to the shirt than the skirt. as social affairs commissioner, i hope that magna, together with gm and new opel, will find a european solution. the debate on the future of general motors europe must not blind us to the dramatic situation on the european automobile market as a whole. there was already overcapacity before the crisis. the situation has been further aggravated by the crisis. in the last quarter of 2008, the number of registrations fell by almost 20%, and for 2009 we expect a decrease of 11%. the scrappage premium, adopted by 12 member states, has stopped the free fall downwards but only in the car market. in january 2009 we already drew attention to the extremely difficult situation in the entire trucking sector. the sales numbers are catastrophic. there are no signs of improvement in sight. this has serious implications for the whole subcontracting sector. the first responsibility for dealing with the crisis lies, of course, with the automobile industry itself. to protect the workers concerned, the eib, the member states and the commission have provided financial assistance to the extent possible to mitigate the social consequences in the sector. the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was set up by the commission two years before the crisis, has received seven applications from the automotive industry in six countries over the past two years. with some 40 million euros, we are helping over 7 000 workers to return to the labour market. we have also provided a forum to discuss the next necessary restructuring steps that must be taken in a socially acceptable manner. we welcome the fact that many car manufacturers have been able to prevent a dramatic reduction in jobs through short-time working and other forms of flexible working arrangements - mostly negotiated by the social partners. the long-term prospects of the european automotive industry are agreed by all parties: europe must build the most advanced cars in the world, i.e. the cleanest, most energy-efficient and safest. this strategy implies the need for a leap forward in automotive technology. we are helping to do this through the eib and the seventh framework programme for research. the commission will continue to do everything in its power to provide a reliable framework for this key european industry and its employees.
member of the commission. − mr president, the public financing of opel/vauxhall by one or more european governments is the issue that i will address. as you know, last thursday the opel trust, in which general motors (gm) and the german authorities have equal representation, announced that it has approved the sale by gm of a majority stake in its european opel/vauxhall operations to the consortium of magna international and sberbank. this decision by the owners of opel has been supported by the german government. the german government promised to grant public funds up to eur 4.5 billion to the new opel, with the possible participation of other european governments. mr president, the commission has kept in touch with all the member states concerned throughout the process which led to this transaction and the commission is also aware of the controversies regarding the respective merits of the restructuring plans presented by different bidders, including the doubt publicly expressed by certain members of the opel trust. concerning the public financing of the gm/magna transaction, we have been informed that the german government intends to avail itself of a pre-existing approved scheme under the commission’s temporary framework for state aid measures, to support access to finance in the current financial and economic crisis. mr president, i intend to verify carefully whether this scheme can be used in this case and you will certainly understand that i cannot take a position at this stage since the deal is not yet finalised and, by the way, a number of aspects are still being negotiated. however, at this moment it is quite important that i should outline to you the most relevant considerations. in particular, i have to underline that state aid granted under the temporary framework cannot be subject, de jure or de facto, to additional conditions concerning location of investments or the geographic distribution of restructuring efforts. such conditions would create – and i am quite clear on this – unacceptable distortions in the internal markets and could trigger a subsidy race which would significantly damage the european economy at the present, very delicate moment. moreover, if the restructuring of a european company was determined by non-commercial conditions attached to the public financing, there would be a risk that a company would not be able to restore its long-term viability, and that risk to viability is all the greater due to the current weakened state of the entire european car industry. the european car industry, as we are all aware, suffers from considerable overcapacity. so a failed restructuring would result in great damage for the company and for its workers, in negative spillovers for the whole sector and in a waste of taxpayer’s money. and those principles will be my guidance in my assessment in the opel case. i will verify whether non-commercial protectionist conditions are attached to public funding, de jure or de facto and the commission will examine not only the legal conditions that may be attached to a final aid package, but also the entire context in which the aid is granted. and i will be particularly interested to find out whether the german authorities have effectively linked the provision of aid to a single bidder and, if so, to find out why they regarded that bidder’s business plan as preferable from an industrial and commercial point of view. in the short term, it is a sad fact that, because of the current state of overcapacity in the car industry, any plan to restore the profitability of opel/vauxhall will require job losses across the company as a whole and planned closures; all the plans to save opel/vauxhall presented by different potential investors have foreseen both plant closures and job cuts. however, a social restructuring is the only way to ensure viable and stable jobs for the future, and the commission cannot, and should not, try to dictate where such cuts will fall, nor can it try to prevent them. we will, however, be scrutinising the process very carefully to ensure that it is based on commercial considerations designed to sustain viable jobs and not protectionist motives.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the epp group would like to expressly welcome the confirmation by commissioner špidla that the european authorities were involved in this lengthy process of changing the ownership of an automobile company in three respects. secondly, i agree with the commissioner that the examination of non-commercial aspects must be carried out precisely. but i would ask the commission to do so with the necessary speed. it does not have to be as fast as the acquisition of dutch and belgian banks in 24 hours, whereas it takes 24 months for german banks, but i would ask that this examination be carried out quickly and in a targeted manner. thirdly, it is true that there is overcapacity on the market, and that overcapacity is enormous. in 2007, 58 million passenger cars were sold worldwide, and the capacity was 72 million. this means that the restructuring of the industry - including towards more environmentally friendly vehicles - is well under way, and particularly the manufacturers of large vehicles are affected. opel is clearly not a manufacturer of large vehicles, but of energy-saving vehicles. opel has had problems, made losses. the cars are powerful, they are technologically sophisticated, and i am sure that this company - even if it does not have the market size of the big giants as a stand-alone company - has a chance of survival if it succeeds in implementing this restructuring plan. as for the restructuring, i read in the press that it was only for one location. according to my data ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the process must, as i have said, be able to proceed and must not be hindered. that's the question. if i look at the examples in the banking sector, where this process took years, i am sure that a shorter period would be appropriate than we had in individual cases in germany. but i want to say this in conclusion: in total, the concept - if my information is correct - provides for the reduction of 10 500 jobs out of a total of 50 000, of which 4 500 in germany and the rest at all other opel sites. i think it is a legitimate concern of the commission to see whether this is correct and not done according to political criteria, and in this respect we hope to see a positive future with the workers.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in this situation, where after months of struggle the door is open to a solution, where, of the more than 50 000 jobs directly affected, probably - so at any rate the contributions of the new investors - some 40 000 can be saved, not to mention the many jobs in the suppliers, in the companies in the area that depend on it, this should be an hour in which we can address a word to the workforce of general motors in europe. it was their struggle, they klaus franz as chairman of the general works council and all the others have become the face of opel europe, of a new technology group that has earned a chance, and the policy must help in such a situation. what are we talking about? we're talking about the months-long hiccup of general motors from the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what could have been more sensible than to take the initiative, to go ahead and say, "yes, we have to jump in and give people a chance. we must give a chance not only to the sites but also to the future technology if europe is to remain a good automotive location. i can fully identify with the perspective proposed by commissioner špidla for the european automotive industry. let's do this, then. let us create an industrial policy framework with world-leading environmental standards so that workers and car manufacturers in europe can get on board. we have done it in the past with coal and steel, why not now with the mobility industry of the future? pick up the ball! the commission has a lot of room for manoeuvre and can take many initiatives. i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. my information is that of the 4.5 billion, you've already approved 1.5 billion in the course of the deal that needs to be done so that the wheels don't stop. of course you have to check by law and order, what else! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but my urgent request is that you examine this matter quickly and that you come to a conclusion consistently, but with what is at stake, for god's sake, this opportunity must not be ruined! it must not fail because of the small problems, but we must also see the significance of the situation and we must, in the common interest, find a european solution that serves all!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. first of all, we should try to stress once again that we are all concerned about the future of jobs in the european union in the automobile industry, and that we are all concerned about the future of jobs in this sector in the european union, when we are dealing with the opel case, perhaps also representatively, and the future of the european automobile industry. at this point, it is not so much the actions of the germans that should be attacked - even if this needs to be checked - but the governments of the other member states of the european union, whose production sites are also affected by the gm crisis, i.e. the governments of poland, spain, belgium, the united kingdom, etc. - should also sit down and consider together with the germans how to make something of the bad situation and secure the future of the jobs of the people affected in the factories. i'd actually prefer this approach. i assume that we are all concerned about the future of jobs in the automotive industry, and i have to agree with mr špidla: despite months of discussions in brussels and again and again here in strasbourg and at home in our member states, we are not yet where we need to be with the debate. we have been talking about the fact that we have a very large structural overcapacity in the industry. we are not really confident in actually leading the way and also in supporting the way in which we want to get this sector out of this structural overcapacity politically. we have beginnings that i think are quite good. we talk about sustainable cars in many contexts, including government intervention: cars that are supposed to be climate-friendly and efficient, that are supposed to have other sustainable drives. but if i am honest, i do not think that, in view of the market trends, that will be enough to secure the jobs in the automotive industry in the future as we have today. that is why the future must be discussed at least as the future of the mobility sector, and we must have the confidence to actually discuss transformation now in times of crisis and also to act more consistently. it is however worth noting that the opel support measure in germany does not really reflect on the sustainability of this sector. it's about modern, future-proof cars in theory. but what about the public transport sector? how do we get to a future where we have climate-friendly, better public transport systems? who will build better buses, better trains, better trucks in the future? who is ensuring that this sector is linked in thought to the information technology and renewable energy sectors? these questions have been raised time and again, but they have never been fully considered, let alone put into political concepts. i would like to take this debate as an opportunity to say, at the very beginning of the work of the new parliament: we must tackle this! we must really have a lot more confidence in this direction, otherwise we will be partly responsible for the loss of jobs, which will be unprecedented and which we will not be able to repair with public funds. we must not only criticise germany or other governments from brussels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. at least eur 4.4 billion has been channelled to the automotive industry in recent months via eib soft loans. not a single euro that has flowed from this pot to the automotive industry, mr špidla, has been linked to the requirements of this transformation for the future viability of the automotive industry or the mobility sector!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i share much of what the commission has said here about the causes and prospects of the automobile industry - overcapacity, the need for a change of strategy, new technologies. but i want to point out that we don't share a lot of things. opel is not likely to be the last case in the automotive industry, with 30% of global overcapacity. it is not just the 12 million people who live directly and indirectly from this industry, but the 30 million or so people in europe who participate in the economic output of this industry. in this situation, the commission shares the responsibility for ensuring that the european automotive industry can meet this challenge. the european commission also shares the responsibility for ensuring that opel does not become the victim of a market economy crisis. the necessary conversion of the free market forces in this eu will not automatically compensate for the expected job losses by creating new jobs. on the contrary, it is the workers and the european economies who will pay the price. the general prohibition of state aid will lead not only to distortions of competition but also to social distortions. it would also put a far greater strain on the public finances of the countries concerned than they can afford, especially far more than they would be burdened with by the aid currently being offered, including further social cuts. the restructuring of the european automotive industry requires strong initiatives from the european commission, but also from national governments. we therefore propose a european industry council on the future of mobility, with politicians, companies, trade unions and academia. it must develop options for action in response to technological change and define policies and accompanying financial resources. excess capacity must be transferred to new work in a planned manner and with an equal distribution of the load. that was true of the steel industry years ago, and it must be true of opel and the entire automobile industry in europe. i believe that state aid can and must also be linked to the creation of a written employee participation system with extended participation rights. all the workers concerned in europe need job security, they need new work and new, secure prospects for the future throughout europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is really a question of finding a common european solution, not of national egos. opel europe plays a major role in industrial policy in europe, and it is not just jobs at opel that are at stake, but jobs at many automotive suppliers in many european countries. the decision to support magna - and this has been confirmed to me by the european works council - is a consensus within the european works council, and the members are working hard on european solutions. the workers are also prepared to make sacrifices, and we expect that from all decision-makers here. everyone must work hand in hand, and quickly! my predecessors have already addressed this. it is in the interests of the workers that thousands of jobs should be temporarily stabilised by state aid. we cannot accept the argument that competition has been postponed. it is about people, it is about jobs, but it is also about whole regions. what has been initiated under german leadership must now lead to the best possible result for all workers throughout europe, in all european locations.
i have to say, madam president, i am pleased to be able to speak as chairman of this inaugural session. i'm very pleased. i would like to thank commissioner špidla in particular for speaking german and i would like to congratulate commissioner kroes. many people think that the opel-vauxhall case is a german case. i'm not going to. it's a european case! it is a question of jobs throughout europe, and a german special route would not be right. i therefore welcome the commission's willingness to look into this case. it deals with european competition and aid law issues. yes, we want to save every job! but at what cost? as the citizen and taxpayer advocate, it's unclear what the long-term obligations are for taxpayers in the opel-magna deal. the opel case is also questionable from an industrial policy point of view. it's always the big guys who get helped. the small and medium ones are having a hard time. you're the backbone of the economy. the fixation on one investor was clearly wrong. cheaper and better offers were rejected early on by politicians. the opel case has more to do with electoral campaigning than with honest and eu-legally clean economic and industrial policy. once again, it is right that the european commission is now taking action, even if the german government does not like it. the opel deal is a sham, it's becoming clearer. it could mark the most expensive election campaign in german history. we want opel to live. we want opel to be healthy, and we want to fight for every job. but we do not want to incur costs, and we do not want to find a solution at the expense of our european partners, on whom germany, as the world's largest exporter, also depends.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to make three comments. firstly, the automobile industry is a key european industry and - as has already been mentioned - with all its upstream and downstream operations, with all its suppliers, 12 000 jobs depend on it. i emphasize this again because my colleague, mr chatzimarkakis, who is sitting in the front, has just said that the federal government's efforts here are a campaign noise. i can only reject that categorically. this is a mockery and an affront to the workers who work in this sector in many european countries and who have to fear for their jobs every day. secondly, the rescue of opel is in the interest of europe as a whole. it is particularly important for me to stress this, regardless of the debate today. the company has offices in the uk, belgium, poland, spain, germany and other european countries. if it saves opel, that there is an investor magna , that there are bridging loans for which the german federal government has fought, then this is not only in the german interest, but it is in the interest of all europe. we must all work to preserve jobs in our countries. i am glad to say that we would be where we are today if it had not been for the efforts to find a trust solution. we would not have to have this debate today, because it would have ended anyway if gm had also dragged gm europe into the vortex of its bankruptcy. thirdly, there are strict rules on state aid. i trust the commission to look at this in the light of its own interests. the question for gretchen will be: can opel europe be profitable again in the medium term? i trust that the solution that has now been worked out, and that magna is also working on, and that many other european countries have been involved in, can be enforced. i would also ask the commission to give its approval and i would like to conclude by saying once again that we have done something good for the whole of the automobile industry in europe in this case!
mr luhan, you had a question for mrs lope fontagne. that's why you held up the blue card, isn't it?
this is not a question for mrs lope fontagne. if you wish to speak after the 'catch the eye' procedure, you will have the opportunity to do so after the debate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have not for the first time brought the subject of opel and the automobile industry to the agenda here. i'm glad the rescue was a success. there were other proposals, for example, that of an orderly insolvency. in the subcontracting industry - i have just come from bavaria, where i visited a subcontracting company - there is a very urgent need for orders, and there has been a breach. if opel had been forced into bankruptcy now, it would have been very bad and would have had devastating consequences. we have just heard the commission's conclusions. there was an automobile summit with the commission, but after that there was virtually no news. we heard today what might not work. we must change this in the future: we must hear from the commission what is going on so that we do not have nationalist debates; the commission must do a better job of mediation if we are to pursue a single european industrial policy. that is my wish for the next commission.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the commission's statement on the forest fires in the summer of 2009.
i have to say, madam president, the scale of forest fires is indeed beyond the capacity of smaller member states, especially in the regions most affected by drought. that is why parliament wants the european solidarity fund. we call on the council to release these funds without hindrance. the regions urgently need the money for reconstruction and prevention. the solidarity fund, in conjunction with existing environmental and agricultural programmes, could really help in a sustainable way. otherwise, however, firefighting is primarily a national responsibility. stricter penalties for arsonists, bans on change for up to 30 years if arson is proven, training of firefighters - here more can and must be done. but europe must also do more, and above all coordinate better. the know-how of european firefighters must be transferred to regions with a high risk of disasters. and we need better rules for the conduct of crossborder operations. we are waiting for proposals from the commission, but they must not interfere with the powers of the member states. i think this is extremely important: they must not interfere with the powers of the member states! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i think it is premature to discuss the question of civil protection as a european responsibility. let us take the first step before the second, the most important first, and that is european aid for self-help, with the solidarity fund, with training and with improved european coordination.
member of the commission. − mr president, a large potential for new exporting opportunities lies in the asian markets that have high growth rates but also, of course, high barriers to entry. apart from the multilateral talks, an important way to overcome these barriers is through the leverage available to us in free trade agreement negotiations. that is why member states have asked the commission to launch a new generation of trade agreements with key asian economies. these free trade agreements should be ambitious in creating new exporting opportunities for many sectors. with korea this is what we have achieved after two intensive years of negotiations. this is the most ambitious free trade agreement ever negotiated by the european union. there is consensus that in two of the three main sectors of our economy the benefits from the free trade agreement are overwhelmingly in our favour: first of all, our competitive service providers will gain massively from the agreement. for example, in areas such as telecoms, transport, construction and environmental services, doing business in korea will be much easier in the future. secondly, for agricultural products, korea will eliminate almost all of its particularly high tariffs – they average 35%! that will give a boost to farming exports of, amongst other things, pork, wine, whisky or dairy products. we will also secure the protection of european geographical indications, such as parma ham, rioja or tokay. but the free trade agreement will also bring major benefits to european manufacturing exporters. overall, european manufacturing exporters will save some eur 1.2 billion of tariffs annually, of which eur 800 million are saved on day one. for example, exporters of machineries would save eur 450 million annually on annual duty payments. exporters of chemicals would save over eur 150 million on duties. duty elimination will also allow our exporters to strengthen their foothold in the korean market, and thus expand sales. korean customers buy some eur 25 billion worth of eu goods every year. this makes korea one of our most important export markets in asia. in addition, there was a special focus on rules. the agreement includes transparency on regulation, efficient enforcement of commitments, better protection of intellectual property rights and ‘wto-plus’ rules on subsidies which will all be to the benefit of all manufacturers selling in korea. moreover, ambitious disciplines have been established on industrial technical barriers to trade, notably for cars, electronics and pharmaceuticals based on the regulatory model of europe and they respond to longstanding demands by european business in these sectors. korea will need to changes its domestic regulations to comply with these commitments, whereas no such change would be needed in europe. concerning the car industry specifically, i want to signal first of all that we also have an interest in enhancing market access for european cars in korea. our car exporters are by far the strongest importers on the korean market, with strong growth rates. they can develop this further since they will benefit from the combination of elimination of tariffs – eur 2 000 saved on a car worth eur 25 000 – and the removal of technical obstacles. the agreement negotiated includes the most ambitious disciplines for non-tariff barriers ever negotiated with a third country. korea will accept from day one that a car that conforms to international standards will be considered as complying with those korean regulations that have been signalled by our industry as representing significant obstacles. there are also provisions by which korea accepts the equivalence between european and korean environmental regulations. indeed, even before the agreement enters into force, korea has agreed to apply certain transitional derogations from the korean environmental standards important for our exporters and we are monitoring very closely discussions in korea about new regulations to limit co2 emissions in order to make them show that they are not an impediment to trade. we are aware of the sensitivities of the car sector. we defended long transition periods for the liberalisation of our most sensitive car segment, namely small cars. tariffs will only be eliminated in year five of the agreement, and that allows time for adjustment. we should remember the significant korean investment in the car sector in europe. moderately, we have changed the rules of origin by increasing the permissible limit of foreign value in korean cars from 40% to 45%, and we agreed a bilateral safeguard clause which lets us put up tariffs in case of a surge of imports and a threat of injury to our industries. on duty drawback, my final point, this is nothing new. such policies are legitimate under the world trade organisation. duty drawback also does not create a significant competitive disadvantage for our car producers since our tariffs on car parts are generally very low and will be further reduced. and we have we negotiated a special clause that would enable us to limit duty drawback efficiently. i underline the strength of support from european manufacturing sectors, as well as agriculture and service organisations for this agreement. this is important, and it is a clear signal of our determination to pursue market access interest in key emerging asian economies.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not south korea is the european union's fourth largest external trade partner, with exports worth some eur 30 billion a year. the conclusion of the free trade agreement is therefore in the deepest interest of our employers and our workers. and, commissioner, i do not wish to congratulate you today, because the agreement has not yet been signed, but if you really manage, in this crisis - at a time when exports are collapsing worldwide as never before in history - to bring the free trade agreement to fruition, that would be a huge success, which i would wish you with all my heart. trade agreements are often very contentious, and south korea is a very commendable exception in my view. i have heard very positive feedback from almost all sectors of european industry. i think of engineering, pharmaceuticals, electrical engineering, chemistry, numerous service providers. i have never seen, even in the agricultural sector, positive feedback on trade negotiations. this is certainly a novelty, i think most of us have not heard of it. the results are certainly positive, although some sectors would have liked more. there is one exception, however: the automotive industry. but again, it is not the whole industry, but only some producers who are critical of the agreement. other manufacturers and, above all, many suppliers, are very positive about the current situation. i would be glad if we could take the opportunity to address some of the criticisms of the industry concerned and perhaps to correct in some detail any possible negative effects of the free trade agreement. i'm thinking of keywords like the capital region act seoul, standards for on-board diagnostics, environmental standards, the duty drawback protection clause and so on. we should avoid any misunderstanding or, better still, clear up any misunderstanding and, above all, insist that the commitments made to us in south korea are actually enforced. clear monitoring of possible new non-tariff barriers to trade would certainly be useful. i hope that the agreement will come into force very soon and that the consumers and workers of the european union will be able to benefit from it very soon. thank you very much and good luck in the final!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank you, commissioner ashton, on behalf of the alde group, for the information you have given us this evening in the extraordinary committee meeting and also here in the plenary. it is clear that the free trade agreement with south korea is about to be concluded. the aim of free and fair world trade is of great importance from the point of view of the liberals and especially from the point of view of the fdp, because in the wake of the economic and financial crisis we have tendencies towards protectionism, and we must decisively oppose these tendencies in the interests of prosperity and jobs in the european union. in this context, the question arises as to the importance which the commission attaches to the free trade agreement with south korea. for a long time, the focus has been on progress in the doha development round, but without any conclusion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the south korean regime is not allowed to continue to operate in the country. or are these bilateral agreements merely a complement or an extension of the european union's free trade policy? as you are aware, the customs refund clause is a particular concern of some member states and industries, particularly the automobile industry. it may have the effect of supporting trade with low-cost countries such as india and china and endangering european manufacturing. do you see any way of addressing the concerns of some member states about such customs refunds?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the question put by mrs joly on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation is a good indication of what we are talking about here as development policy-makers. the promises made at the last g8 and g20 meetings have finally been kept on paper. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i cannot understand why we are not negotiating the european parliament's resolution before pittsburgh so that political pressure can be exerted. the commissioner's analysis is correct, and i think it is clear from what mr michel has said that we know what the problem is. but we are not in a position to exert political pressure to force the member states to finally abandon this policy of 'the shirt is closer to us than the skirt'. that seems to me to be the great danger with regard to pittsburgh. if we fail to put pressure and make it clear that we need new institutions to support the poorest countries in the world in particular, then we will be back here in pittsburgh and find that nothing has been done! and that is my request to you too, commissioner. i would ask you to comment on the results here in parliament immediately and to tell us what has been achieved with the support of which member states and how far we have come. what we need is quick and effective action, because we are seeing people die, and they are dying because of circumstances we have helped to create. i ask that we act together!
mr president, i do not really share your enthusiasm about frontex. we have heard reports from frontex as well as from member states that they have violated human rights, the right to non-refoulement and given no possibility for refugees to apply for asylum, and those violations of human rights are done in the name of the european union. minister billström, you have said that we need some checks and balances on our external borders but, i ask you, why cannot we have some checks and balances on those people who are working and defending our external borders? why cannot we have some transparency and clarity about frontex and what they are doing? we need clarity and transparency in this house, in the european parliament, about frontex’s deeds. we need clarity about what is the stage of the procedure of the new rules of frontex that you mentioned, commissioner, and we need some clarification about how refugees can obtain international protection when they are intercepted at sea. we also need transparency about the deals that are being made with third countries and what happens exactly to the eu money that is being put into libya, for example. i doubt whether what you called libya’s assistance to refugees is actually helpful to refugees but here again we are just lacking transparency and if, as you said, not even member states interpret the rights of migrants the same way as you do, then how are you going to make sure that third countries such as libya are going to follow your sort of interpretation? i would like to remind you that parliament has always supported the idea of making the sharing of responsibility to deal with asylum applications obligatory, and i think your report of the pilot project where only france took a very, very small, almost ridiculous, number of 100 refugees from malta shows that we are not getting far with the voluntary solidarity. we need some obligation here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in principle, border guards from european countries are prohibited from returning to sea, escorting back, preventing the onward journey or dragging back to non-eu countries potentially in need of protection. that is what the european convention on human rights says. we have heard today again many examples of frontex's failure to comply with these guidelines in practice. that's why we need control here. we need control as european parliamentarians, because it is our responsibility to ensure that the european convention on human rights is respected. i would like to ask you: to what extent do we have the means to verify that border guards in international waters are respecting the human rights which are enshrined in the charter? for years now we have seen that the frontex agency violates human rights in individual cases, but also that its work as a whole undermines the credibility of the eu in terms of the protection of human rights!
the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments. the commission is not i agree with what my colleague mr daul said. you have put forward a programme, mr buzek, which our group can support on many - practically on all - points. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. you have made a speech which, as far as its content is concerned, is certainly shared by the vast majority of colleagues in this house. i do not entirely share mr daul's view that your programme is designed for the next five years. let us start with the next two and a half years, which is a long time! but i believe, mr buzek, that you are taking office at a difficult time for the european union. you are also taking up your duties at a difficult time for the european parliament. for the first time in a long time, this house is no longer a house where the pro-european consensus is unchallenged. on the contrary, this house is for the first time a platform - which began in the last parliamentary term and was reinforced by the last european elections - in which forces are at work, making themselves heard, exerting influence, whose aim is exactly the opposite of what you have described in your speech. the number of members in this house who want to end the european integration character, the number of members who want to reverse it, the number of members in this house who want renationalisation has increased dramatically! we have seen in the last parliamentary term what it is like to try to get the charter of fundamental rights signed by the three presidents of the institutions. i would not have thought it possible that such images and scenes could be possible in a multinational, democratic parliament. but we were all witnesses. the number of colleagues who are of this spirit has increased. so, yes, you are right! the fight for progress in integration, the fight for deeper integration, the fight for the lisbon treaty, which is the basic precondition for enlargement of the eu, also the fight for enlargement of the eu on the basis of deeper integration - yes, that is the right way. i am glad that the president of this house - especially a president from a country which has joined the eu in the last phase of enlargement, a president who, as head of government of his country, has started negotiations with the aim of accession - has said as the central message of his term of office: we want more europe. we want the integrated europe, we want the deepened europe, and we want the enlarged europe in the deepening, so that we can achieve one thing - and that was the central phrase of your speech: solidarity that led to freedom. this is the solidarity we need today within ourselves, so that this freedom can be achieved in social justice. that is why the socialists and democrats are in full agreement with your speech, mr buzek. it is the ideological, the spiritual basis of a struggle which we must wage in this election period. when i was a newly elected member of this house, i had the privilege of hearing the french president, françois mitterrand, speak in his capacity as president of the council. one sentence remains in my memory: "nationalism is always war in the end". that means that the opposite of nationalism, the overcoming of nationalism, the european idea is finally peace. and that is what we want to fight for together with you, mr buzek! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i do not have to deal with much of what my predecessors have said. it was clear to my group that we supported your candidacy because we thought it was overdue for a great figure from the european parliament from one of the new member states to be at the head of this house. we would like to see the president of this house elected in the future in the same way as your special skills and abilities are now very often appreciated, and that the power of national delegations in the large groups is perhaps a little less emphasized than this very claim made by personalities like you. we have high expectations of you in overcoming the still great divisions between east and west which i described a few weeks ago. i have to say at this point, after the summer holidays and after watching the political developments, that you are going to have a very difficult time. my impression is that the great global financial crisis and the subsequent economic crisis have not made the task of bringing east and west closer together in the eu any easier, but that the challenges have become greater, because the imbalances are very, very burdensome. i must also say, with a little criticism, before this house: we are now in the anniversary of the collapse of lehman bank. we are sending a large delegation of europeans to the g20 summit to discuss how to overcome the financial crisis, but this parliament is not discussing resolutions and is not giving our negotiators a unified position. i think that's more of a sign of weakness than strength! what i suspect is that we're not at all agreed on the analysis of how we actually got into this mess. i believe that this great crisis was not caused by a few crazy bankers, but that it was actually caused by the neoliberal belief in the benefits of unregulated financial markets, which was not only in the united states, but is still in europe. the european union's political leaders are far from unanimous in their assessment of this analysis, and so we are not yet in agreement on how to deal with the crisis. i also believe, mr president, that everything you said about the second major challenge that we are now facing in a round of negotiations, also in the international context, namely the challenge of the climate crisis, was correct. i hope that we europeans will be stronger than we have been so far before copenhagen. i have the impression that europeans are far from being the appropriate climate leaders. the reasons for this are many. one reason i keep coming back to is that the confidence we place in concepts such as the green new deal, as represented by ban ki-moon or achim steiner for the un, is still far too low! there is also no consensus on this site that we really need to start transforming the old industrial societies, that we need to think beyond the day to day, and that climate-friendly technologies, efficiency technologies and many other things are the future, not just for europe, but for the world. i can only say, mr president, that the challenges are great. if you want to represent modern ideas, ideas that are sustainable, you will have our group's support. it is regrettable that we will not see a real personnel reset in the european commission, because it is clear that the main actor of yesterday's concepts, mr barroso, will lead the commission in the next legislature. i hope that the commission will take this into account. i look forward to exciting and hopefully productive discussions for my group. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate you on your speech. the overcoming of the division of europe was due, on the one hand, to the desire for freedom of the countries of central and eastern europe, but, on the other hand, of course, also to the attractiveness of europe as an economic model. i'm not feeling confident enough about the future. if we cannot do it in europe, who will? we should express more strongly that we can approach the problem with confidence. we have great potential, but we are not at the end of growth opportunities globally. as long as there are people in the world who need goods and services, there are opportunities for growth. we can secure a piece of that pie in europe. all involved will benefit. i would like to encourage us all to simply have more confidence in the successful model of europe. i ask you to express that too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have no comment on the minutes of yesterday's sitting, but on an incident in this morning's sitting. my colleague kinga göncz, a member of my group and former foreign minister of hungary, was insulted in an intolerable way this morning in the debate by mrs krisztina morvai of the fascist jobbik party. as foreign minister of hungary, mrs göncz has done more than almost anyone else in that country to promote international reconciliation between hungary and its neighbours. i reject with indignation this vile insult to mrs göncz by mrs morvai, who is a member of a neo-fascist party! (applause from the centre)
the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have wondered in recent days why a candidate who is so controversial in this parliament across all the political groups is so uncontroversial in the council. i think the answer is obvious. if i had been prime minister, i would have also elected josé manuel durão barroso. the council's interests could not have been better represented in the last five years. that is why your call, mr barroso, for cooperation with parliament is right, but this call is late! (applause from the centre) one element of the last five years has been that you have always been at the service of the governments in the european union, and that is precisely one of the reasons why there is so much skepticism towards you. some friends are more dangerous than enemies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. this is the epp candidate. what a danger for you, mr barroso! i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. we could have started with a different majority. we have seen in july that a majority has been formed in this house on the basis of various considerations from the various groups, which guy verhofstadt has summed up with a reform-oriented pro-european majority, which is possible. the commission had also moved the vote to september and there might have been other possibilities. unfortunately, the liberal group has not continued to support its chairman, otherwise it would have been possible. that is why we are voting today, and weighing whether what you are saying is convincing. but the moment you have to focus on one program, you're already doing something else. in the last few days, you have sent out your messengers on horseback to tell everyone: "moi, j'ai la majorité, i have the majority". yes, you may have a majority tomorrow, that may be. perhaps tomorrow you will have a majority, consisting of the european people's party and the liberals, who will vote for you in the majority, and certainly the only group that voted for you unanimously and without any hesitation: the group of the european conservatives and reformists, the kaczyński party, the klaus party, the tories party. they want a lisbon majority, as you say, but this is the party of the people who reject the lisbon treaty. how can europe be run in a pro-european way if it is to enter into such alliances? (applause from the centre) it's not just about you, by the way. it's about you, too, yes. it is also a question of whether mr barroso is in favour of the idea or not. it's also about whether you get a majority - yes or no? but there's something else. it is about the direction of europe as a whole. and then you don't decide alone. the council then decides, and, above all, parliament decides, on the composition of the college and on the portfolios you distribute and on your programme for the next five years. it is also about you, but it is also about whether we can finally get this single market regulated, whether we can finally get the financial markets regulated, whether we can finally get this migrant wage dumping in europe, which is destroying the social cohesion of our society, to end. it is also a question of whether we can bring about a change of direction in the european union, for which the commission as a whole must then be responsible. that is why we are also concerned with programmatic questions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need more! we need the question of social impact assessment. well, you said you'd do it. we shall measure you by whether you actually do it, whether you are prepared to set this down as a matter of course with parliament in an interinstitutional agreement. the commission must in future consider in advance the impact of its actions on the social security systems of the member states. we want and need a directive on public services, on the provision of basic services. it is not possible that your commission will not rest until the last municipal cemetery in europe has been privatised. this strategy must come to an end! we need a change of direction in europe in the area of wage policy. whatever instrument we choose, mr barroso, i expect a sentence from you. you didn't say it again today. but i expect you to say it sometime. the commission's objective - following the european court of justice's viking, laval and rüffert judgments - must be equal pay for equal work in the same place, for men and women alike. these are the programmatic, the content-related things we want to discuss with you, but not only with you. it is also about who is the commissioner and what portfolio he has. i do not know what has done more damage to europe, you or your failure to prevent mr mccreevy from doing what he could have done. we need a change of direction in the eu! that's how we'll measure you. (applause from the centre) and that is why we see a link between the vote tomorrow and the final vote on the commission. there's a way in. there is the possibility of gaining more approval and trust than is available today. but in summing up your record of the last five years and what you have presented so far - i do not say what is still to come, but what is on the table - i can tell you one thing with certainty: you do not have the support of my group! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to admit, i don't know the fellow. so i'm glad that we, as new colleagues... (interruption of the debate) has he been here long? i haven't noticed him much until now. from what i've heard, i understand that, too. we shall decide on the final vote of our group tonight. i do not know how democratic the structures of your party are, but as we are a democratic party, this will be decided by a democratic vote tonight.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am very pleased that the commission has taken this step. mr barroso, you represent the continuity of a policy which has contributed to the greatest economic crisis in post-war history. as the casino reopens in the major financial centers, citizens around the world are paying the price. the consequences of the crisis are unemployment, poverty, lower incomes, less education. they say the financial crisis was essentially coming from the us, only the bankers had failed. no, let's say that the policy, including the policy of the european commission, has promoted casino capitalism. the ideology of liberalisation, deregulation and privatisation has led to the crisis. "keep it up" leads to an even worse crisis. politics must take responsibility, learn from mistakes and break with neoliberal thinking! european policy must be consistently oriented towards the interests of the people. i can't see that in your guidelines. i am glad, however, that social issues have been given more weight in your speeches today than they were a year ago. some examples to illustrate our political dissent: they want to stick to the lisbon strategy. but the people of europe need good work for wages that allow them to live a decent life. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we expect the new commission to make a thorough re-design of the posting of workers directive. europe must finally ensure that social rights are not sacrificed to the spirit of competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i take it from your statements that you don't think much of it. in the zimmermann report, the european parliament calls for minimum wages of at least 60% of the average income in all member states. they claim there's nothing they can do about it. i think you could, for example, on the employment guidelines. they rely heavily on the stability and growth pact, which has proved to be an ineffective instrument, especially in the crisis. we want a social pact to replace the lisbon strategy and the stability pact. they believe that a few new rules on financial supervision would curb the greed of the financial world. we are calling for a ban on particularly risky investment and a tax on capital movements. they i quote support every paragraph of the lisbon treaty. we want a social europe instead of a radical approach to the single market. we want a commitment to disarmament and civilian conflict management rather than the development of military capabilities. they see europe as a leading power and want to impose the ideology of free trade and market economy in all areas of life throughout the world. we are in favour of intercultural, multilateral dialogue and the greatest possible support to the poorer countries in dealing with the economic, food, financial and climate crises. let us all vote together for a commission that is committed to the goal of a social, peaceful, economically sustainable and democratic european union. if we want to win the people of europe to the eu project, we need a break with the radical concepts of the market and more direct democracy. mr barroso is the wrong man to be president!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. why now? why barroso? these are the two questions we must answer. the question 'why now?' has already been discussed here. we are in the midst of a financial and economic crisis, and the conditions for strong economic growth and more jobs are not going to be created overnight. we need a commission capable of acting, we need a common european strategy with a long-term impact. we cannot wait until next year to start this, we have to start now. that is why we must vote now. why barroso? i welcome the clear commitment of the president of the commission the candidate to the social market economy, competition and the internal market. we have high expectations and demands as liberals. we expect that a common strategy will be developed in conjunction with the member states. in the medium term, it will not be enough for a single network of regulators to monitor financial markets. we need a single european financial supervision. guy verhofstadt has just said that this mid-term review will be decisive for us. we, the liberals, are very pleased that the commissioner for fundamental rights is coming. we want him to have real skills. for those of you who don't know what that means: data protection, the treatment of refugees at europe's external borders - these are all issues that need more attention. let me say a few words about what has just been said here about the political constellation. i regret that the majority of the social democrats will not vote for you tomorrow. the social democrats are thus abandoning the pro-european alliance which we want to have, especially on european political questions. mr schulz, mr bisky and mr cohn-bendit are here organising a red-red-green blockade of europe, or at least they are trying to do so. the key is this: we cannot resist the approval of the european conservatives, but it is crucial that the liberals and christian democrats preserve europe's capacity to act.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the depth of the crisis in europe was not only due to unethical behaviour on the financial markets, mr barroso. there is the growing social inequality, the dangerous and unsolidarist macroeconomic imbalances between member states, and there is europe's dependence on rising resource prices. the citizens of europe deserve a commission which has repeatedly put these deeper causes on the agenda, instead of tabooing them, instead of doing the opposite, instead of shifting the responsibility onto the member states. we need real european coordination of economic and fiscal policies. we need tax cooperation in europe to put an end to tax dumping. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies. we need a policy that promotes green technologies and lifestyles so consistently that the eu's dependence on finite resources is rapidly reduced. this is an ecological green revolution! i do not find that in your programme, mr barroso. that's why i can't vote for you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to say this in advance: the german cdu/csu members will support you, mr barroso, for a second term. we have, however, clear expectations of this second term - i do not want to hide this at all - of you and of course of the future commission. we are moving forward with our demands, but we have, of course, five years of experience behind us, and i should therefore like to briefly highlight what we want to change. the last five years have been, we believe, a time of light and shadow. the shadows included the lack of regulation of financial markets because the commission lacked the courage to take action against individual blocking member states , the visible increase in the power of the council and the self-assertion of individual commissioners who did not concern themselves with the issue of subsidiarity. we will support your programme, your guidelines, we think they are right in principle, and we want some of our priorities to be enforced - and i am sure you will take this into account. firstly, the guiding principle of the social market economy must be the guiding principle of our common policy in europe: freedom and responsibility, not just freedom as it existed in the financial market. the competitiveness of europe and the security of european jobs must be balanced against environmental and climate protection. i was wondering if you might want to jeopardise this meeting by having your own climate commissioner. we need an industrial base in europe, and the world's problems - such as hunger, poverty, disease - can only be solved if europe, as a major economic power, has this base. and the citizens must carry europe with them. overregulation strangles the will to succeed and alienates people from the european idea, and that is why we want an independent impact assessment of legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. under these conditions, we shall have a good five years in office.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what is the vote tomorrow about? it's about doing what some people in this house can't do and some people don't want to do. it is a question of taking responsibility for europe. i would like to emphasise one point and, mr barroso, i am very grateful to you for bringing this up in your earlier call: it is a question of taking responsibility for europe's ability to act in a difficult time, to overcome all that has been rightly criticised by the people and by this parliament. in this respect, i believe that today's debate has also helped to clarify the question of who europe can rely on in the future and who europe cannot rely on when it comes to assuming political responsibility in the years to come. i would also like to point out, mr president of the commission, that there are of course a number of issues on the agenda which need to be dealt with, and you have a great deal of responsibility here because you have the monopoly of initiating initiatives at european level. i would like to mention one subject which has been too little discussed in the debate so far, namely agricultural policy. because we are facing very real challenges here. it is not enough to point out that the agriculture ministers decided something last autumn. it is not enough that we have launched a comprehensive agricultural reform here, but if the conditions have changed, then of course you must take the initiative to help farmers in the european union. and i would ask you to take the commissioner of agriculture aside and point out to her that her model will not succeed in bringing this important sector out of the crisis. we are ready - and i can say this for my colleagues - to take responsibility for europe in the interests of the european union and the people of europe.
member of the commission. − i have indeed been discussing with the united states and with china – from which i came last week – ‘buy american’ and ‘buy chinese’ – two very different programmes; at least that is what i am reliably informed. i have read the legislation for ‘buy american’. i am concerned much more about the implementation by individual states in the united states than i am by what it actually said. ‘buy chinese’ is a different proposition. i am reassured to some extent by what both the trade minister, chen deming, and the vice-premier, tang jiaxuan, said to me last week about the objective and the way in which european businesses would be treated, but i remain vigilant to make sure that neither directly nor indirectly does european business suffer. in terms of the current position on tyres, which i think the honourable member is referring to, we are just watching that at the moment to see exactly what will happen. the honourable member is right to point to it as an important area that we need to keep an eye on and see what happens and obviously i am happy to keep in touch on that.
member of the commission. − we work actively to tackle what are very complex vital sanitary barriers, and with this to help market the sale of european products like irish beef and lamb. the market access strategy, and particularly the market access partnership launched in 2007, is the centrepiece of the commission’s work in that respect. the market access strategy sets up a stronger partnership between commission, member states and business to enhance the work of detecting, analysing, prioritising and removing barriers. the specificity of this strategy is that it is done through the right mix of various trade policy instruments. that means using multilateral and bilateral channels and complementing the more formal medium to long-term policy instruments with political contacts and with joint trade diplomacy. our efforts in relation to this market access have been stepped up considerably in recent years, and we have several success stories to show we are going in the right direction. for example, we managed to confine a few countries and lift the ban on eu exports of meat due to the dioxin and pcbs contamination incident in ireland in december 2008, and recently we were successful in opening saudi arabia, jordan and the philippines to the input of eu beef and to treat certain sps issues in a more trade-friendly manner with egypt and israel. we keep insisting on the different levels with countries such as indonesia, malaysia and korea, to bring some of their legislation fully in line with the requirements of the sps agreement and of the international standards of the world organisation for animal health. we have asked eu beef businesses to come forward with their specific concerns and to make suggestions on how we might tackle barriers in key markets. it has recently had very positive feedback, and a presentation made by an irish business association will help us in setting priorities and continuing our work.
member of the commission. − first of all, i am not familiar with the particular area that the honourable member mentioned, so, if i may, i will come back to him in writing about that. however, i agree completely on the question of the value and importance of the industry to the european union and to trade. indeed, it is an area where we have increasingly to look and focus. i work very closely with commissioner fischer boel when looking at trade agreements to make sure that the agriculture side of our agreements represents a real strength and a real opportunity. i hope that, as our negotiations unfold, the honourable member will see more of the value that we place on this. in terms of the reciprocity principle, we are negotiating with and training third-country officials so that they understand what the eu system is, so as to build their confidence in the level of protection offered to eu consumers and to their consumers alike. we insist that third countries respect their international obligations, notably the world trade organisation sps agreement, making sure that, when setting requirements, they respect international standards or base their requirements on science.
member of the commission. - the mr president, the environmental damage which may result from the extraction and use of lignite in power stations is one of the issues adequately addressed by community legislation. the mining waste directive requires that plants treating mining waste have a permit, which includes a waste management plan, as well as a plan for the closure and rehabilitation of the plant. these units are required to provide a financial guarantee to cover the cost of restoring the soil. the directive provides for inspections by the competent authorities and includes obligations to prevent pollution of water, air and soil. the directive applies to new installations from may 2008. existing installations must obtain a permit in accordance with the directive before may 2012. member states are also required to draw up by mid-2012 a list of abandoned and decommissioned installations which cause or could cause environmental damage. the european union regulatory framework includes other directives such as the ippc directive and the large combustion plants directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, the most important of these is the ippc directive, which requires large combustion plants to have permits based on the application of best available techniques. the large combustion plant directive also sets minimum emission limit values for the most important air pollutants. if an installation ceases to operate, the ippc directive imposes an obligation on the operator to take measures to prevent any pollution risks, as well as landscape restoration measures. this legal framework ensures a high level of environmental protection in the event of potential environmental damage from lignite firing plants. now, as regards the closure of the plants, this will be judged according to whether the plants meet the requirements of the legislation.
thank you for that precise and comprehensive answer. i had also asked specifically about the border areas, i.e. germany/czech republic, germany/poland, poland/czech republic. there are a lot of cases like that. i would like to ask whether you consider that crossborder cooperation between the countries concerned is sufficient and whether the commission is also supporting crossborder measures here, particularly in the regional programmes.
the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, in the current economic situation, we cannot allow this to continue. we will only have slow recovery trends, we will see dramatically higher unemployment rates, also in our europe. and that is why i say, be brave. that is the most important message this parliament can send to those who are going to pittsburgh. have courage! mr almunia, i heard a very refreshing speech from you, and i want to congratulate you on it. start putting this into practice! it's good to start with bonus systems, but that's not enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it is right to say that no risky actor, no risky financial centre, can be left without sensible regulation. that is why we need to regulate the offshore centres from which the whole world is still being flooded with dubious products. this is the most important task we have to face now. don't be afraid to discuss tax policy either - it's not forbidden. a tax on international capital movements which benefits the long-term investor would be a step forward in this discussion. we need stronger and better coordination of our international and european economic policies. it is right to be concerned about the exit, but more important at the moment is how we enter into a solid support of the economy and a better coordination of our economic policies.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for his speech. i have several concerns. the first is that the committee on development in this house drafted a motion for a resolution. i quote from that. it ‘notes with great concern that the crisis already bears major human costs, and has devastating effects for the vulnerable in the poorest countries with an expected increase of 23 million more unemployed, up to 90 million more extreme poor in 2009 alone, life-saving drug treatment for up to 1.7 million people under threat, and 200 000-400 000 more infant deaths per year on average between 2009 and 2015’. unfortunately, this motion was not passed, although it was written together by all groups of this house. we strongly deplore and we think it is a shame that this house was not able to draft a resolution on the g20 on development issues. the big question is how to finance the consequences of the crisis, and there the german minister of finance, together with the chancellor, suggested that the g20 discuss the possibility of a global transaction tax. i ask the commission, and i also ask the presidency of the council. do you support this proposal? the second question is about tax havens. the g20 wants to tackle it on the basis of case-by-case information exchange. we know that this will not work. the development committee suggested a country-by-country reporting regime so that transnational corporations have to report back on a country-by-country basis. we suggest introducing automatic information exchange so that information really flows between the different countries. a global financial system needs transparency. we also want to know your position on these concrete proposals to get out of the crisis and finance the consequences.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i welcome the rapid and decisive response of the g20 countries to the global financial crisis. a lot has happened. the fire seems to be out, but the foundations of our financial system are still shaky. the citizens are worried. the profits are hoarded with the shareholders, the losses are socialized - that's how the citizens see it. meanwhile, more and more market participants are returning to business as usual. they are spinning big wheels and not focusing on what they should be doing as service providers, which is supporting the real economy. business ethics and responsibility seem to be still foreign words to many. i expect the g20 to take concrete action, and to do so quickly. i hope that the eu member states will be able to reach a common position on this. in addition to new supervisory structures, we need higher and progressively rising risk-capital, incentive systems geared to the long term rather than the short term, a coordinated exit strategy from state aid, curbing protectionism, regulatory congruence rather than regulatory arbitrage, overcoming procyclicality and tackling the 'too big to fail' problem, and above all, we need to stick to the tried and tested social market economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. who should regulate whom? that will be one of the contentious issues at the g20 summit. although there is agreement that there must be no return to unbridled financial market developments, the ways and extent of regulation are hotly contested. it will still be possible to agree on capital rules, on credit rating agencies, and possibly on issues related to derivatives and their authorization. but there will be arguments on the question of unfair competition, on taxation and control. there will be arguments about bonuses and there will be arguments about the european demand for a tobin tax. this means that we as europeans have a responsibility to do our own homework, regardless of the outcome of the g20 summit. the commission is on the right track in not making itself exclusively dependent on them. the motto must be: no financial market player, no financial product and no financial venue should be left unattended in the future. but the global recovery of economic growth is also on the agenda. we cannot continue as in the past and maintain the imbalances in the world in favour of the united states and in favour of the major industrialized countries. we must commit ourselves to overcoming poverty and hunger in the world, and this g20 summit must provide new impetus for that. i would like to add a point which has not been raised by anyone except commissioner almunia. it will be necessary to respect the stability and growth pact in europe, not to bury it. it is only because we had this pact, because we respected it, even in its reformed form, that europe was able to remain active. this should remain a european objective: a rapid exit strategy from excessive debt towards a stable economy, towards the stability and growth pact, which has served us well.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the presidency and the commission are constantly talking about strengthening citizens' rights and the europe of the citizens. in fact, fundamental rights are being undermined and a genuine public debate on them is being prevented. parliament is being shut out with all its might and information is being withheld. such an opaque approach is unacceptable for a democratic europe! it is not enough to knock on the door, a responsible parliament must stop this misdevelopment! the presidency must suspend the negotiations until it can guarantee the rights of citizens and parliaments. the cow-trading of banking data that you are planning to carry out without any binding protection mechanisms is tantamount to selling out the data protection rights of european citizens and creates a preventive general suspicion towards all citizens. we greens can't do that! nor will it be temporary, and it will not be temporary if we have servers here in europe and no longer just in the united states, because the data will still be transferred to the united states and there is no legal protection.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? thank you for your valuable comments. i'll try to answer a few questions in the short time available. the first question, of course, is how to ensure that the united states abides by the treaty. i would like to say that we have first of all the bruguière report, which has given a good description of the conditions being met in the way they have been so far. the draft agreement also includes an evaluation group, as i described to you, and the presidency, the commission and participants from national data protection authorities, which is intended to check that the activities are being handled correctly. of course, it is absolutely crucial that we can rely on that data. it is also important that everyone knows that when data is transmitted into this computer program, you cannot go in and look at it anyway. suspicion of terrorist offences or the financing of such offences is necessary to gain access to such data. of course, that in itself limits how they can be used. as for the criticism that this is happening now and that this will happen in the summer, i would also like to say that the background is that the presidency has asked questions which are similar to those asked by members of the european parliament. we have been asked to prepare this question in depth and to analyse, among other things, this report, which answers some questions, but also others. the reality is that we did not decide to move swift to europe, but that this was due to other decisions. but the united states is keen to use this tool in its fight against terrorism and we believe that we too would benefit from the same. for this to happen, there needs to be a deal. since the treaty of lisbon has not yet entered into force, we have considered it necessary to make a temporary solution. that's what we're negotiating and have a mandate from the council to deal with. i've tried to describe this. nor does the presidency want to limit transparency or debate unnecessarily in any way. firstly, this is a public debate, and secondly, we are of course prepared to tell you how the discussions are going. however, during a negotiation, the documents cannot be presented continuously, because negotiations involve changing things back and forth. i have tried, however, to describe our starting points and the clear mandate we have from the council. we are determined to combine high efficiency and practical application with high standards of legal certainty and respect for human rights and freedoms. i am absolutely convinced that we too will reach it. if we don't get there, which i suspect we won't, there's no deal.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i simply want to confirm what the minister said, and she has just concluded very clearly: if we did not really have the necessary guarantees for data protection for the lasting agreement which the presidency will have to negotiate and for which the commission will lend its support, there would be no agreement. i believe, however, that we must be able to reconcile the two and thus fight terrorism, while, of course, respecting the great values and principles which make us in europe attach great importance to the protection of privacy on the one hand and to the avoidance of all commercial espionage on the other. i simply want to say, as far as i am concerned, that since i took office i have obviously taken note of the fact that the council asked judge bruguière to go to the united states to carry out this fact-finding mission. the bruguière report, which is dated december 2008, was handed to me in january 2009. this report was presented to the european parliament and the jha council in february 2009. it was from that moment that the commission considered itself to have the essential elements to say that the continuity of the tftp could indeed be ensured until, with the lisbon treaty signed and parliament becoming a co-legislator, a lasting agreement could really be negotiated with all the guarantees that the minister mentioned and all the requirements of reciprocity that mr strasser, in particular, also mentioned. i think the council has just made its position very clear in this case. the commission shares this opinion and the council's very firm and clear commitment to ensure that parliament is a true co-legislator when the time comes for the lasting agreement.
the debate is closed. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the eu strategy for the baltic sea region.
the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased that the swedish presidency is putting baltic sea cooperation at the centre of its presidency. we need not argue about this: we must protect resources and we must do our part to protect the climate and nature. on the other hand, we must of course also put economic development at the centre of baltic sea cooperation - there is no question of that. you have our full support! but some questions remain. you just said there's no extra funding. as we have already discussed in the committee, all the funds from the current cohesion policy should be made available. the question i have to ask myself is: are these existing projects which are already being financed by cohesion funds or are they new projects? we must then ask ourselves which cohesion policy projects that have already been decided upon are we going to withdraw funds from. this is very important because i already know that the cities, the municipalities, the regions will come to me and ask me: if we want to participate in the baltic sea strategy, what do we have to do? how do we get the funds to help with such projects? if we do not give a good answer and if we do not have the means to show how this cooperation is organized, then the enthusiasm of the citizens for baltic sea cooperation may quickly turn into frustration. that is not the goal we are working towards together. we must therefore have a very intensive discussion on how to organise cooperation. that is why i ask you - and i ask the commissioner - to take note of the fact that not only the council and the commission are involved in the baltic sea strategy, but that parliament is also sufficiently involved in this cooperation and in the implementation of this strategy, because we want other regions to benefit as well, such as the black sea policy or the cooperation of the danube countries. it would be very important for us.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. as a newly elected member of parliament from mecklenburg-western pomerania, i strongly support the development of a baltic sea strategy and the related action plan. the commissioner has already spoken about the flagship projects - 80 in all - earlier. our common objectives are, of course, to improve the competitiveness of our economies in the baltic sea region, with particular emphasis on the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises, but also a common energy policy which also takes account of renewable energies. this raises the question: how do we deal with offshore installations in the baltic sea? the conservation of water - because it's our foundation and our resources - plays a very, very big role in this when we think about fishing, when we think about tourism. it is therefore necessary to continue to promote investment in wastewater treatment plants. i think it is necessary for us to agree on a common spatial planning programme for the baltic sea region for all the member states, because we have to answer the following questions: where will we position the traffic routes in the future? where are offshore plants built? and how are we going to get the ship's security under control? so we also have to be clear: where are the energy routes for nord stream, for electricity supply and many other things? (the president cut the speaker off)
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? thank you to all members for the great support you have given us in the continuation of the work on the baltic sea strategy. it is quite natural that there is support in the european parliament, because you are actually the original mother and father of the whole idea of a baltic sea strategy and i am glad that you will also continue to make sure that this strategy really becomes a reality. because it can only succeed - it can only become something really concrete beyond pretty words and rhetoric - if all the member states really feel ownership and really feel responsibility for making sure that the projects are realised. working on these projects, setting clear timetables for their implementation and regularly voting on them is a guarantee of our success. i am sure that parliament, like the commission, will continue to put pressure on all of us to get it done. there are 100 million people in this region. at any given moment, there are 2,000 ships in the baltic sea. clearly, there are enormous challenges to be faced here. we have had a very broad anchoring process and i would like to thank the commission danuta hübner first and now commissioner samecki for the work they have done. there is a great deal of support in civil society and among municipalities around the baltic sea for this to really be stopped. several members, krehl and itälä, have raised the question of resources. no new funding is envisaged for the strategy. however, there are many resources in the region that we can use. we have 55 million euro allocated to the region under the current budget plan. we also know that we can count on contributions from international institutions such as the eib, which have shown great interest in the baltic sea region. the aim is to keep all administrative costs as low as possible and to work with the local and national authorities responsible for the various flagship projects. one of them is trafficking, an area that jäätteenmäki took up. there is a project to strengthen the training of customs and police in the region to better identify and deal with the trafficking issue. hassi and lövin raised the issue of the marine environment, agriculture and fisheries. there are some such projects here, and i would very much like to see more of them. i also believe that the strategy can give us the opportunity to get a better overview of our environmental efforts and our fisheries and agricultural policies and to ensure that they are moving in a common direction. there are other forms of cooperation in the baltic sea region. we have a large and growing energy cooperation, where we aim to link up the energy infrastructure in the region, reduce dependence and increase efficiency. this is of course something that the union is continuing to work on. ignalina has nothing to do with the baltic strategy. it is an old decision which was already included in the lithuanian accession negotiations. nor does northstream have anything to do with this. it has to do with the baltic sea, of course, but it is not part of the strategy. it is a commercial project that has been tested under the usual international environmental conventions and relevant national legislation. the baltic sea strategy is an eu-internal strategy. it's what we make it. but it is also important, as several members have pointed out, that third countries are involved. we have made sure to keep russia and norway, for example, involved and to inform them about the work on the strategy and to signal to them that we are happy to cooperate with them on concrete projects of common interest. we look forward to the conference tomorrow and friday and welcome the arrival of vice-president diana wallis in stockholm. we will then discuss the baltic sea strategy and hopefully get a strong commitment from the countries concerned to work towards making it concrete, but also discuss macro-regions in general. the danube and black sea regions have been mentioned. i think there's a lot to do here and be inspired by. we hope to be able to make progress in the discussion, although it is a little too early to set concrete timetables today. i would like to thank you again for the strong support in this parliament for the baltic sea strategy and look forward to discussing this with members on several occasions.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the members of parliament for their comments and remarks on different aspects of the strategy. your level of commitment demonstrates that the strategy will be a subject of interest in the forthcoming years, which is good. i will be unable to respond to all comments and issues raised in the debate or in your statements. i would like just to refer to three broad groups of issues. first, the shape. i would like to say that the strategy has been designed in line with the objectives and intentions of member states. the commission did not interfere in the selection of priorities. the commission did not shape the priorities, so the ideas of including certain projects or modifying certain priorities is of course possible. however, it is to be agreed in the future work related to the implementation of the strategy. i want to assure you that the strategy is a kind of living animal and it is to a great extent exposed to future modifications should member states and stakeholders wish so. second point: on management and governance. here i would like to underline that there is a need for a clear division of tasks, for a clear division of labour and responsibilities. i think that we should not delude ourselves. the responsibilities of member states, of the commission and of other organisations involved in the management. at this moment i would also add that we want to involve local governments in the process of implementing the strategy as well as third countries, as was already mentioned by the minister. of course we foresee reporting concerning progress made in relation to implementation to parliament. finally, the last issue is financing. several members mentioned the need for additional funds for new projects etc. i want to explain that the principle of no new additional financing was adopted at the very beginning of the creation of the strategy. at present we have more or less three options. we can regulate the use of existing eu funds, for example by changing criteria for selecting new projects. the second possibility is having recourse to other sources like international financial institutions and finally, although it is difficult at a time of economic recession, we can still try to use national resources. in this respect, i look forward to the work of the conference to be held in stockholm because this is the conference which may shape the future approach of member states and the commission to the macro-regional approach in the future and it should also embrace the financing of potential future strategies. that is why i feel that it will be a good moment to look at the overall macro-regional approach in stockholm in the forthcoming days.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the council and commission statements on the ec-tajikistan partnership and cooperation agreement and on the recommendation of alojz peterle, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a council and commission decision on the conclusion of the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tajikistan, of the other part (a7-0007/2009).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you for reporting. as a member of the committee on foreign affairs, i asked the responsible commission representative in a debate about the role of this agreement in the eu's migration management. he made it clear that once it was in place, the way would be open for cooperation with the frontex border agency and for a variety of migration policy arrangements, such as readmission agreements and border security with afghanistan. the 1,200 km long border between tajikistan and afghanistan has already been mentioned here. it thus becomes another target of the eu's repressive refugee policy. the european union is thus seeking to protect itself effectively against refugees far from its external borders. we see once again that this is an elementary part of the eu's foreign policy. as a result of such partnership agreements, refugees are interned in camps where conditions are known to be inhumane, as is currently the case in ukraine. the problem has already been raised in general terms here. this type of so-called international migration management involves serious violations of the geneva refugee convention and international human rights law. i therefore call on the eu to finally tackle the causes of displacement rather than refugees. the european neighbourhood policy is a means of making the fortress of europe even more impenetrable, and is therefore viewed very sceptically from our point of view, from the point of view of the gue/ngl.
i have to say, madam president, i too would like to say that mr peterle's report is excellent. we should be aware that the very freedom-loving peoples of central asia are among our most important partners. this region has been dominated by foreign powers on many occasions. she's free for the first time in centuries. we should take this opportunity to establish a true partnership of the free. i heard something earlier about crime. of course we must work together to fight crime. but first we should look at the culture of these countries, and we should see that they are ancient trading nations. it was not just drugs that were traded there, but goods which have always been important to europe and the world. we should therefore say: it is about partnership and not about paternalism.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution by the committee on foreign affairs, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 september 2009. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? we are moving quickly into geography to discuss something that i am also very happy about: the prospect of visa liberalisation for some countries in the balkans. it is very good that the european parliament is raising this issue so early in the election campaign. it shows how important we all think it is to bring the peoples of the western balkans closer to the european union. this is undoubtedly the most important issue for the citizens of the balkans in their relations with the eu today. visa liberalisation will primarily enable people to move more freely throughout europe and create more open societies. many people in the region - especially young people - have never been to western europe, and a number of opportunities for contacts and exchanges will naturally be created by visa liberalisation. that is the real advantage of this initiative. in 2007, the eu launched a process to end visa requirements for the western balkan countries. this process has two aspects: countries themselves need to make significant progress in document security, better migration legislation, stronger rights for minorities and, not least, the fight against corruption and organised crime. in return, the eu offers visa-free travel. visa facilitation linked to readmission obligations was introduced as early as january 2008. however, only through genuine visa liberalisation will the economic and bureaucratic obstacles resulting from the visa requirement disappear. the liberalisation of visa requirements for citizens of the western balkans is an important measure strengthening the ties between this region and the european union. we can expect that this will stimulate the pro-european orientation of both the governments and the peoples of the region, because it will show that the european integration process has a real tangible advantage. continued isolation, on the other hand, would create a feeling of exclusion and impede the exchange of ideas, and could, in the worst case, dilute narrow-minded nationalism. our aim is, of course, the opposite: to open up the eu, to give countries access to community programmes, to facilitate people-to-people contacts and to promote development and exchanges between the countries of the western balkans and between them and the eu. the visa liberalisation will also create new opportunities for trade, industry and knowledge transfer. these are important elements in mitigating the consequences of the economic crisis. the commission's proposal, presented on 15 july, is therefore very welcome. it proposes that, as a first step, the visa requirement be abolished for citizens of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia who hold biometric passports. the aim is to liberalise visa requirements for these citizens by 1 january 2010 and to extend this to other countries as soon as they meet the conditions. the commission's evaluation shows that three countries: serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia are largely clear and in principle fulfil the conditions for visa liberalisation. the evaluation of serbia and montenegro is still ongoing and we are awaiting confirmation from the commission in the autumn that all conditions have been met so that we can move forward. i would like to emphasise that many of the conditions we set for liberalisation, such as police reform and the fight against corruption, also favour the countries' preparations for eu membership and thereby create a win-win situation for all of us in terms of harmonising the regulatory framework. it is also a good example of the way in which conditionality works in the western balkans. albania and bosnia-herzegovina will not be covered by this first visa waiver decision, but we are not leaving them in the lurch. i know that many in this house are concerned about this. it is only a matter of time before these countries also meet the necessary conditions of the commission's roadmaps. in order to complete the process as soon as possible, we continue to urge and support albania and bosnia and herzegovina to make further progress on the remaining benchmarks so that they too can hopefully benefit from visa liberalisation in the near future. the eu will do all it can to help and support these two countries in their efforts to meet their benchmarks, especially with regard to the rule of law. as regards kosovo, the commission proposal does not imply any change. there, the visa requirement will remain in place for the time being. in future we must look at how best to extend the measures so that the citizens of kosovo also have the same rights as the others in the region. we are waiting here for a communication from the commission in october on ideas on how to promote deeper cooperation and relations with kosovo. the council has only just started its discussions on the commission's proposal, but the presidency will work hard to ensure that we can reach an agreement as soon as possible. we welcome the european parliament's keen interest in this proposal and the fact that initial discussions are already under way in your committees. given the enormous political importance of the proposal, i am sure we agree on the objectives, namely to complete this process as soon as possible with satisfactory results, so that visa liberalisation can really take place as soon as possible.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i thank the minister, cecilia malmström, for all she has said to us, and i will try to confirm this for the commission. on 15 july, the commission proposed abolishing short-stay visas for citizens of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia. as you have said, madam minister, this is obviously a historic milestone in our relations with the western balkans. this visa waiver proposal builds on the progress made over the last six years in the areas of justice and home affairs, in line with the commitments made in thessaloniki in 2003. the commission proposal has been submitted to the council. the member states support the approach proposed by the commission and confirm their intention to work closely with the european parliament to ensure the formal adoption of the text during your presidency, madam minister, the swedish presidency. i thank the european parliament for having appointed the rapporteurs in the libe committee and also for having set an indicative timetable for the presentation of the report at the end of september, and for the votes in the libe committee, and then in plenary in october and november. the aim is to achieve visa-free travel for citizens of macedonia, serbia and montenegro by 1 january 2010. the commission's proposal builds on the results of the dialogue launched in the first half of 2008 with the five western balkan countries. roadmaps have been drawn up, setting out criteria for achieving which imply the adoption of structural reforms in the key areas of jha justice, freedom, security. this method has proved to be a very important incentive for the countries of the region to move towards reforms, especially for the security of documents, with the introduction of passports and biometric identity cards for border management and comprehensive migration policies, also for public policy and security policies: the fight against organized crime, corruption, human trafficking, and finally, of course, fundamental rights, including citizenship issues. after analysing these reports, we can say that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia fulfils all the criteria of its road map. montenegro and serbia have made very significant progress. however, for serbia, conditions remain to be fulfilled, in particular related to the verification of identity documents submitted by residents of kosovo and persons from kosovo residing abroad when applying for a serbian biometric passport. secondly, the border management with kosovo and cooperation with eulex, and thirdly, the development of a national migration strategy. for montenegro, a sustainable solution for the displaced persons is to be defined. measures are still needed to ensure the effective implementation of the aliens act, as well as measures to strengthen administrative capacity and to combat corruption and organised crime more effectively. that's it for these three countries. despite very significant progress in recent months, bosnia and albania have not yet been able to complete the necessary reforms required in the roadmap, such as visa abolition. on the basis of this analysis, the commission, responding to the invitation issued by the general affairs council in june 2009, has therefore proposed the abolition of visas for the citizens of macedonia, montenegro and serbia. for serbia, persons residing in kosovo or persons from kosovo residing abroad who hold a serbian passport issued by a central authority in belgrade shall be excluded from liberalisation and subject to the visa requirement. since 1999, serbia has not been able to verify identity documents for kosovo citizens. the commission has taken into account the security risk posed to the community by this category of persons and the fact that no dialogue on visa liberalisation has yet been launched with kosovo. so the decision to include certain countries in this visa liberalisation is based on the merits of each of the countries individually. for serbia and montenegro, we will be following closely the steps taken by these two countries to ensure that all the criteria are fully implemented. in view of the progress already made by albania and bosnia-herzegovina, the commission is confident that these two countries will be able to meet all the criteria in the near future. in october, their authorities will provide the commission with additional information on the progress made in recent months. on the basis of this information, evaluation missions will be organised early next year and then the commission will draw up further evaluation reports to be discussed with the member states. as a result, the commission hopes to be able to propose visa-free travel in 2010. in accordance with the procedures in force, the proposal will be discussed in the council and the european parliament will deliver its opinion. the formal adoption of the text by the majority of the schengen countries is therefore expected during the swedish presidency, which will allow the effective implementation of visa abolition for the citizens of these three countries from january 2010. as you have very well said, madam minister, all this means, in fact, especially for the younger generation of these balkan countries, the possibility of being much more inserted into european life, of being integrated into it, and we believe that all this can be extremely beneficial, both for these countries and for our europe. there you go. i wanted to make this point in the light of the excellent remarks made by the presidency.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the western balkans need europe, and we europeans need a stable western balkans. the western balkans are a central part of europe and we must do everything we can to bring this important part back to europe. that is why the proposals are right and good. the reality of life in these rooms was described: the long, oppressive queues at the visa offices, the young people who have no prospect of being able to apply, of being able to leave, of experiencing the european spirit of life. many people feel this room is a prison, where they have no contact with the outside world. we all want to put an end to this. in my group it is above all mrs pack, mrs corazza bildt and also mr posselt who are actively promoting this. we're on board with that. we are concerned that the different treatment of the countries in this region is leading to a division of the region, that different classes of citizens are emerging in this region of the western balkans, which can certainly lead to problems. but the citizens of the european union also expect security. in other words, the standards described today by our commissioner barrot - security standards for police cooperation, for the fight against illegal immigration and economic immigration, for biometric data - are the agreed minimum standards that are the rules of the game. our citizens expect these rules to be respected! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we cannot leave the states free to do as they please. the rules of the game are clear, and those who follow them stand a good chance of being granted visa-free status. the pressure on those countries which have so far been unable to improve their standards despite eu aid must not be allowed to subside. these are the two sides that we as the epp believe to be right. we trust the evaluation carried out by the european commission and can therefore approve the present step.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we were all very happy to be offered visa-free travel. we have been fighting for this for a long time in this parliament, and now we have a first approach. that's not enough! i think that in june the wording was wrong. there are also problems today - as we have heard - in serbia and montenegro. why were albania and bosnia not included in this text and why was it not said that there were still problems to be overcome here? you wouldn't have broken a lot of porcelain. it is, of course, a fact that the politicians in bosnia-herzegovina have little interest in improving the plight of their countrymen in any way. why would i? they themselves have a job, they can travel, they waste their time in useless nationalistic quarrels, instead of working for, for example, a good school system, a good infrastructure, a good health system. and they have not made sure that the benchmarks for visa facilitation are now in place. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force. since the commission's assessment, however, anti-corruption measures have been taken in bosnia and herzegovina and some necessary legislation has been put in place to ensure that the technical conditions can be met in the autumn. but it is not just a question of the technical conditions, it is also a question of the political perspective. it's a matter of biometric passports, i know, there aren't many yet. i would ask the commission and some member states to help us to create these biometric passports. it's really a lot of technical help. the council, the commission and local politicians really have to do something to prevent the ethnic division in this country from deepening. the refusal to grant visas to bosnia-herzegovina would ghettoise the muslims, as the croats and serbs have a way out of the country. the bosnian passport normally the passport is a proof of a nation becomes worthless in the eyes of its owners if it does not open the door to the eu. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. albania will make it through. they have a new government, they'll make it. and kosovo can only succeed if you all help. you have our support. you don't have to be blind, but you should also have political standards, not just police standards.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too share the security concerns of mr weber. i was on the committee on the interior for ten years. but this issue has a profound foreign policy dimension. i come from a generation that grew up with hundreds of thousands of so-called yugoslav guest workers. in the period of communist dictatorship, people from south-eastern europe could travel freely - despite communist dictatorship! - if they lived within the borders of yugoslavia. today we are talking about europeanization, sending in military and civil servants, spending a lot of money, and at the same time we are locking up the young people of these countries. it is therefore urgent that this visa regime be liberalized now. but i also want to make some critical remarks: first of all, i'm glad macedonia is in it. macedonia is exemplary in meeting the criteria. but we must not give this to macedonia as compensation for its legitimate wish that a date for accession negotiations be finally set. secondly, kosovo: it was said that kosovo must play by the rules. but a player can only play by the rules if he's allowed on the field. the kosovo player wasn't even allowed on the field. we have intervened militarily to free the kosovars from oppression. now the country of the former oppressor can enjoy visa-free travel and i welcome that, because there is no collective debt and kosovo cannot even aspire to it. even if there are shortcomings, we have to beat ourselves up, because we are the main ones running this country. that means that we must give kosovo every chance, because if serbia is granted visa-free travel for an indefinite period and kosovo is completely excluded, this will lead to unacceptable distortions. thirdly, bosnia and herzegovina: i have signed, like many colleagues, the protest against the exclusion of bosnia and herzegovina. this country of three peoples, which was misconstrued by the dayton treaty and which must be revised, and which has an international administration which is equally responsible for its inefficiency, must finally be given a chance to make its way to europe without being disintegrated. the disintegration of kosovo or bosnia would endanger our security more than any technical detail.
president-in-office of the council. − as i said, we have asked the commission to come up with alternative proposals on how this particular social fund can be used in this situation where, as you say, lots of people all around europe are without work, and we hope that the commission will present such a proposal without undue delay. however, we do a lot of other things as well to combat unemployment; this is the responsibility, of course, of the member states, but there is also a collective responsibility for us to try to coordinate, to facilitate the completion of the internal market, to eliminate obstacles, to get the services directive working from 1 january, to get rid of red tape and to stimulate people to be employable, while giving them resources to complete their education or to restart in another direction. unemployment will also be discussed at a particular informal ecofin meeting in october, where unemployment is one of the main issues on the agenda; and in the light of the discussion that i know is taking place within the european parliament, but also in almost all council formations concerning the future of the lisbon strategy, there are lots of issues being discussed. so the social fund is only one instrument to combat unemployment. it can be improved, and it can be more widely used to show the public how it is used in a better way, probably. but it is just but one element in the whole range of instruments that we have and that we must use in order to combat unemployment.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? as soon as the presidency was informed of the murder of natalia estemirova, we immediately issued a statement condemning the murder and expressing our deepest sympathy to her family and to her colleagues in the human rights organisation memorial. we also called on the russian authorities to investigate the murder promptly and thoroughly and to bring the perpetrators to justice. i can assure mr posselt that the council will continue to follow developments in chechnya closely and that we will pay particular attention to and respect the situation of human rights and human rights defenders. in the council we have repeatedly called on the russian authorities to do everything in their power to protect these people in russia in accordance with the universally recognised un declaration on human rights defenders. i would stress that the eu is already present in chechnya through commission support projects, diplomats from moscow's embassies in the eu member states and regular visits to chechnya. the council stresses the importance it attaches to the issues of bernd posselt and is concerned about the human rights situation in chechnya, but we do not believe that there is any particular need today for an office or mission as proposed by him. the union is present in the region and we will continue to monitor the respect for human rights, the rule of law and democratic principles in chechnya and raise this whenever necessary.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. this is the first good response i have received from the council on this subject. thank you very much. i would like to ask a supplementary question: can the council imagine once again dealing specifically with the issue of chechnya under the swedish presidency? because there are a number of announcements from the russian leadership to make changes. but then we have to do something, and we don't see it. i therefore ask you to inform us in detail about this matter before the negotiations on the agreement begin. we shall have an urgent debate on this tomorrow.
member of the commission. − madam president, would you allow me to use a bit more than the three minutes’ speaking time allocated to me, because on this important and serious issue i think three minutes would not actually be sufficient. first of all, i would like to say that i am very happy with the questions put by the committee on agriculture, because this gives me an excellent opportunity to clarify the actions that have already been taken. let me also thank parliament for its ongoing work in this area. we are all committed to finding solutions. you are, and so am i. not everyone agrees with my preferred solutions, but i strongly believe that these solutions are working, that they will work, and they are also solutions that we can defend politically. mr paolo de castro asked on behalf of the committee that we say what we are actually doing. the top line is good news: prices are improving. for example, in the course of one month butter prices went up by 4% in france, 8% in germany and even more in the uk. skimmed milk powder also went up by 4% in france and germany, and 2-3% if we look at the average all over europe. average milk prices have been going up, and albert deß just told me this morning that the spot market prices are now at 30 cents in certain areas. we can see that intervention buying on cheese has almost stopped because the market price is higher than the intervention price, which is another positive signal. we are not yet where we want to be, but we are heading in the right direction. this makes me more confident than ever before that the policy approach that we have been taking from the very beginning is the right one. you know the key elements of what we have been doing. we have been using all the market measures available and here we expect to spend approximately eur 600 million over a 12-month period. we have indicated the possibility for member states to start the direct payment of the single farm payment to farmers from 16 october instead of 1 december, and we decided under the 2003 reform to decouple the dairy premium – eur 5 billion every year – and transport it directly into the single payment scheme. we have the recovery package and the decisions taken in the health check that provide another eur 4.2 billion to face the new challenges, including restructuring in the dairy sector. all this of course is on top of what we can do under the rural development policy. just for clarification to paolo de castro, intervention for cheese was actually abolished in 1994. i think there must be some confusion between intervention and private storage because private storage was abolished by the decisions in the health check. as i said, our current approach seems to be working. i am therefore more determined than ever before not to go back to the future in ways which would hurt our dairy sector in the long term and leave our farmers without any kind of predictability. in other words, making a u-turn on the health check decision is not an option and something that the european council, the heads of state, explicitly asked me not to do. so, the idea of keeping the quota system after 2013 is not on the table. freezing quotas is not on the table, and neither is any return to the use of certain expensive but inefficient market instruments of the past. they are not on the table. this certainly does not mean that we have now done the job in terms of policy. i think it is time for further action. we need to follow up on the dairy report from this july, use the measures in there and then decide on other actions for the longer term. if i could start with the report, i will look first at state aid. the report floated the idea that member states could temporarily offer aid of up to eur 15 000 for farmers under this temporary crisis framework. the commission has actually already launched the boat and expects to change the rules in the coming weeks. the second point is streamlining the procedures for responding to prices in the dairy sector. at this moment, milk is not actually included in article 186 of the single common market organisation which allows the commission to take temporary actions quickly under its own power during times of market disturbances. i am therefore proposing that we include the dairy sector in article 186, and this will enable us to spring into action in the future if we hit serious problems in the dairy sector. for example, our recent extension of intervention had to be approved by the council, and parliament voted on this as well, but, if the dairy sector had been included in this article 186, we could have acted immediately. more generally speaking, we could with almost immediate effect mobilise measures stimulating demand and/or we could limit the marketing of milk, and all this would only be put in place on a temporary basis and under the condition that we had the necessary financing available. the third follow-up point from the report concerns the buying-up schemes by member states. one way to restructure is that member states can actually buy quotas from farmers and put these quotas into the national reserve. as you know, the national reserve counts in a sense as part of the member states’ total quota, so if individual producers go over their quota, but member states as a whole do not exceed their quota, with the national reserve included, then no super levy is actually paid. what i intend to propose is that bought-up quota kept within the national reserve will not count as part of the national quota when it comes to deciding whether we have to add or to ask the farmers to pay the super levy or not. if the super levy should then be collected anyway, then the part corresponding to the bought-up quota could then be used for restructuring. it might sound a bit complicated, but it is actually a very efficient tool. all of these steps are actions that we are taking now with an almost immediate impact on the markets, but we also need to do something about steps for the medium and longer term. i would like to thank france and germany here for their ideas and their input on these different possibilities. the first longer-term issue is about using contractual relations between milk farmers and the dairy industry to better balance supply and demand in the dairy market. i believe that this is a much, much better approach than the quota system, and it already works in parts of the european union. milk producers and dairies have clear agreements which remove a lot of the uncertainty. on the other hand, some member states simply do not use this possibility, but this can be changed by looking for a legal framework for these contractual relations, whilst clearly safeguarding fair competition. the second long-term issue is about the balance of power, and you know that we have had this discussion a lot of times. we need to be able to see within the whole chain from primary producer to supermarket chains where the added value is disappearing. we will look into future markets as well and, finally, i think a lot can be done on production costs and innovation. in order to deal properly with all these ideas for the medium and long term, i want to establish a working group with experts from the member states and the commission so they can go to the heart of these issues. for me, the problem in the dairy market is not only an issue between the commission and member states. parliament actually plays an important role as well, and i am looking forward to the discussion here today on this important issue. thank you for being so patient.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is of course extremely difficult to present this problem in two minutes, but i shall try to do so in detail. the dairy industry is in a difficult situation. many dairy farmers are in a situation that threatens their livelihood. the main reason for this is the massive drop in sales of dairy products. the commission should have reacted a little more quickly. i would also have preferred more sales promotion measures rather than greater intervention, such as the return of butterfat to the ice cream industry. last year, when the price of butter was briefly above eur 4, the ice cream industry largely stopped processing butterfat. i know the figures from germany: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's milk market is not affected by the crisis. we must try to revive sales here so that these quantities are off the market. i would like to thank the groups who have contributed to the drafting of our joint motion for a resolution. unfortunately, the green group did not take part in this debate. commissioner, we are calling for an increase in de minimis aid as a short-term measure, in accordance with a supplementary motion which has been tabled with 40 signatures, because this would be a way of helping small-scale dairy farmers in particular. it would also make sense to introduce an early retirement scheme. i know a lot of farmers who are 58 years old and want to quit soon. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. commissioner, thank you very much for your work. i ask you to find sensible regulations which will improve the situation of our dairy farmers. you may have an opportunity to do so in the near future. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would first of all like to thank my colleague, mr luis capoulas santos, who made this resolution possible. today's debate is about our dairy farmers and whether we are going to let them down or whether we are going to be honest with them. i think we must not let them down and deal with them honestly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to deal with the crisis. yes, intervention, when the milk price is at its lowest, is fine for a short period of time. yes, further grants, loans and funds to combat the crisis are justified. but what is not possible is, firstly, to reopen the debate on the milk quota and, secondly, to reinstate export refunds financed by taxpayers for deliveries to the third world. we have already left this one-way street in 2003, and i appeal to you to keep it that way, also in the interests of our dairy farmers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the global economic crisis has thrown the global market out of balance. we milk producers are suffering from a record low in the price of milk. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. as a dairy farmer, i can only warn you. the commission's intervention measures have also prevented a further fall in milk prices. the market seems to be relaxing. i do not think that intervention is a very good measure, however, because it builds up stocks which could later weigh down a recovering market. i therefore ask the commission to explain how it intends to deal with this problem.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. to put it in concrete terms, if we could enforce low-energy standards or zero-energy standards in our buildings, we would save more natural gas than we could import with nabucco and south stream and nord stream combined. it is therefore important that our resolution stresses that the cost-effective options of renewable energy, energy efficiency strategy and energy saving must be given special attention. then we think that more nuclear power is not necessary at all. secondly, an important message of this resolution is that we need a common external energy security policy for the union - which has not yet been achieved! this policy should include the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy in the framework of the neighbourhood policy and a common union position in negotiations with transit countries. the commission should also ensure that its capacity is up to the task, as parliament called for in its resolution on this subject two years ago. nabucco is a high priority project in our view because it would strengthen energy independence, particularly vis-à-vis russia, even if i agree with mr kasoulides who said that there are still a number of open questions to be answered. we regret, however, that some members are undermining the policy of energy independence by supporting the south stream project, which is openly anti-nabucco. for us greens, it is also important in energy policy that we do not forget human rights in the energy dialogue, that we do not put human rights dialogue on the back burner. it is also important to us that when we look at desertec or the arctic - as we do in our resolution - we do so not with a neo-colonialist attitude but with a partnership attitude.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. energy security is rightly on the foreign policy agenda today. but instead of securing power and influence and the last fossil resources, instead of being capricious about dependencies, i believe that a sustainable energy policy faces entirely different challenges. firstly, it is a question of a global energy transition towards more renewable energy sources, more energy efficiency and energy saving, not and above all not only about the dispute over energy foreign policy, but about intelligent affordable energy for everyone. secondly, energy security must be part of a responsible peace and development policy of the european union. access to energy is crucial for every person, for economic development and for poverty reduction. a project like desertec must not therefore be a continuation of colonialism by means of energy policy. what do people in african countries, with their growing populations and increasing energy demands, gain from this? why have they not been included in the planning and decision-making process on an equal footing? global energy security is also crisis prevention and peace policy. we are also lacking this approach in the european union's relations with the south caucasus and central asia. as energy suppliers - see nabucco - these countries are becoming more and more interesting for the eu, but i miss conflict prevention and sustainable development concepts on the ground. it is time for the eu to end its foreign energy policy, which only intensifies the competition for oil and gas reserves or spreads nuclear technology! real partnerships for renewable energy, for decentralized supply are the order of the day!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. energy is a vital lifeline for society as a whole, for individuals and for the economy. that is why it is important that we in europe find common solutions, although it is certainly also right that the energy mix remains a national responsibility, so that we do not have to fight our dispute over nuclear energy, low-carbon energy, etc., where i have different views from, for example, mr bütikofer, in the joint deliberations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but to reduce our dependence on the outside world, we must diversify. desertec and nabucco are important tools for this. we must also negotiate with russia on questions relating to the partnership and cooperation agreements and energy security, after russia has withdrawn from the energy charter - wrongly, not rightly! this is also an important task! but we have to realize that we are dealing with countries that are not necessarily reliable, and that unfortunately we cannot even distinguish between reliable and unreliable countries. that is why we must oppose the power of supply to the power of consumption of the european union. interconnectivity, the question of common gas storage facilities - all these are important if one country is not to be cut off. if everyone helps, we'll be so strong that no one can stop us! that is the crucial question we must put forward here. we must also make it clear that private investment is necessary - it cannot be done without it. much has been done, but our overriding common security interest must be combined with economic interests in order to achieve the best solution. that is not to be taken as a contradiction! i think we will find a solution to this problem. this also means that competition law issues must be included. competition law, in the sense that it does not allow the major supplier, such as gazprom or other companies ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, energy security is for us to a large extent a question of energy independence, as many have said, and, as mr piebalgs said correctly, the most effective strategy is that of efficiency, savings and renewables. but we, as greens, are also realistic and realise that, in the medium term, we will need gas supplies. therefore, we are in favour of diversification and also see the nabucco project as a european priority project. but let me say why we do not believe that a nuclear strategy is a strategy of independence, certainly not of energy independence. after all, uranium is imported, and not only from countries we like. and, if we speak about security, we have to mention the security implications of nuclear energy, namely nuclear proliferation, and we see the problems that we have with that in other very high-profile security issues. we cannot neglect that, and we cannot say that nuclear energy is completely separate from the question of nuclear proliferation. in addition, our group strongly believes that all projects have to address concerns about transparency and corruption and cannot stand in the way of a frank and strict human rights dialogue with the cooperation countries, as well as a holistic and political approach to these countries.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is also high time that security of supply was recognised as a central problem in energy policy. unfortunately, it is not as simple as it is sometimes portrayed in political discussions. we're talking about two projects today: nabucco, a very concrete project that we can work on, and desertec, an interesting project or an interesting idea, a vision that we can't all yet judge exactly if and where and how it can be realized. we have to take care of concrete things and work on them. we must also pursue visionary projects, but we must beware of thinking that there is only one solution to a problem or a concept for solving problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, we must avoid becoming more and more dependent on gas as a result of a very intense debate on the co2 problem, which will only get us into trouble again because we need new pipelines. we must also say yes to the coal policy; that is why we need new power plant technologies. we must say yes to ccs, we must say yes to nuclear energy, yes to renewable energy, yes to savings. not either or, but both! i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. the question of supply sources and transport routes is also relevant. there's not just one answer to that either. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. because if you want to reduce dependencies, you have to keep a variety of options open, all the way to lng, and take care of them. the question then remains - and this is a very important question - how do we ensure that the necessary capital is made available to carry out the necessary projects? what good are great plans if there's no one to take the money and invest it? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. businesses need to be encouraged! we must beware of thinking that we can force everything and predict every detail. some of the solutions we found last winter worked without any political decisions, because smart people worked together in different places and because the commission was a helpful mediator.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the present resolution again emphasizes the need to develop a consistent european foreign policy, also from the point of view of energy security. a lot has been said today about nabucco and desertec. on the subject of diversification of sources of supply, i would also like to draw your attention to a neighbouring region which has so far been characterised by stability and reliability in supplying europe, which also has a great potential for development, and which is also becoming more accessible as a result of climate change: the arctic region. on the one hand, there is already a tradition of pragmatic cooperation, including with russia, for example, and on the other hand, the eu as such is not yet present, unlike russia, the usa, canada and even china. in order to safeguard our long-term european interests in this region too, i therefore call for the development of a pragmatic, long-term strategy with partners such as norway and iceland, aimed at cooperation with russia, the usa and canada, balancing interests there and covering not only issues of common security of supply, but also environmental issues and access to the new ice-free transport routes. we are also avoiding the potential for conflict that might otherwise arise in the run-up to the remaining energy sources.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i very much liked what the commissioner said here today about the desertec project. the desertec project has a very big potential, and its charm really lies in the fact that it's a lot of small individual projects. it creates jobs. this paves the way for an industrial policy which is environmentally friendly, as we are striving to do. a question to the commission: i had the impression that there was a bit of talk about the desertec project with the handbrake on. what concrete measures are planned for the network infrastructure, a major problem in the development of renewable energy? the idea is to transfer the electricity from the desert to europe via high-voltage direct current lines. what accompanying measures can the european commission take in this area? have you thought of anything? what can we expect from the next commission in this field?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am an enthusiastic european and a supporter of a european constitution and also of the treaty of lisbon. i'm also a human rights activist. but this resolution is seriously damaging to europe, especially in the run-up to the irish referendum, and it is misusing the subject of human rights for ideological purposes. the lithuanian law has nothing to do with human rights, and if anything, it protects the human rights of lithuanian children and does not violate them. that is why i regard this resolution as an ideological disgrace. the left and the liberals in this house have done a great deal of damage to europe and human rights with this resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the survival of many farms is seriously threatened. i am therefore glad that we have adopted today an intergroup resolution on the crisis in the milk market. i deeply regret that the green group did not participate in the preparation of this motion. it must be made clear that the measures proposed by the commission alone will not solve this crisis. first of all, we must increase the consumption of dairy products to relieve the market. the promotion of sales is more important than the storage of goods. the commission has already made proposals to the council and parliament on the use of milk powder in calf feeding, the fixing of minimum prices for cheese products, the clear labelling of analogue cheeses and the supporting use of butterfat in ice cream and bakery products. i cannot understand why they have not been implemented by the commission so far. i would urge the commissioner to take urgent note of and implement the proposals contained in the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − we are in a crisis of unprecedented proportions in the dairy sector: producer prices have fallen dramatically, consumer prices have risen, and many farms in the eu are facing the prospect of becoming obsolete. the commission has been watching this development for far too long. with our motion for a resolution, which has the support of almost all the political groups, we make it clear that the decisions taken in november 2008 in the context of the health check are not sufficient for the current situation. the comprehensive agricultural reform we have decided on is not enough. if the conditions have changed, the commission must take the appropriate initiative to help farmers in the european union. in the resolution we call for comprehensive measures: market stabilization, promotion of sales, a comprehensive school milk programme, raising the ceiling on minimum payments from 7 500 to 15 000 for all agricultural production sectors, early retirement scheme/quota purchase, strengthening of producer groups, correct labelling of dairy products, export credit insurance similar to the us and special measures for the milk funds. with this resolution we are ready to take responsibility for european agriculture. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution as it was voted.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all, let me express my sympathy to the people of taiwan who suffered as result of typhoon morakot and its consequences. the european community mechanism for civil protection made a contribution to the overall relief effort and showed europe’s solidarity with the population of taiwan. on 7 august 2009 taiwan was hit by typhoon morakot, causing major flooding and mudslides. over 150 people were killed and tens of thousands displaced. transport infrastructure, including roads and bridges, was damaged and communication networks were interrupted. around 700 000 homes were left without drinking water. taiwan requested international assistance on 12 august 2009. in response the european commission activated the community civil protection mechanism. the mechanism facilitates and coordinates member states’ in-kind assistance during major emergencies. the european commission deployed a coordination and assessment team to taiwan to assess the needs and to assist the government in its relief efforts. the team undertook several assessment missions to the affected regions, sharing its findings and recommendations with the local authorities and international partners. the mechanism team also facilitated the delivery of in-kind assistance such as water purification equipment donated by sweden and poland, which was delivered to the most affected areas in taiwan. the rapid delivery of this assistance ensured a tangible expression of european solidarity. the presence of the european team on the ground was also received positively. the community civil protection mechanism is a very visible sign of european solidarity with countries worldwide, and i am convinced that it will continue to grow in strength and effectiveness. natural disasters can affect any country in the world. they often carry a heavy human, economic and environmental cost. in the future, climate change makes it likely that we will face more disasters. in this regard, solidarity with other countries hit by disaster remains one of the pillars of the european disaster-management policy. i look forward to continuing to work with the european parliament to make sure our european emergency-management tools are fit for purpose.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the republic of taiwan was shaken to its foundations on august 8. with unbridled force, typhoon morakot swept across the island, taking more than 750 lives. thousands lost their homes, and lands were devastated. the damage is more than 2.5 billion euros. the reconstruction of infrastructure destroyed in many places will take months. as a sign of solidarity, we europeans were concerned to support the taiwanese people in the disaster relief effort. the epp, mrs kuneva, supports the initiatives launched by the european commission. it is all the more surprising that taiwanese embassies have been instructed to reject all foreign aid. this led to strong criticism and on 13 august to the necessary corrections of a completely failed crisis management. soon afterwards, prime minister liu chao-shiuan resigned. another irritation was now the dalai lama's visit to taiwan in early september. he wanted to pray with the survivors for the victims, that's all. compassion has been the message of the dalai lama's much-reviewed speeches and books for years. once again, the chinese government protested loudly and applied massive pressure. it is outrageous that beijing has turned a purely humanitarian action by the dalai lama into a political issue once again. taiwan must face the question of whose side it is on. president ma ying-jeou had only allowed the nobel peace prize winner to enter after violent protests from his own people. we are called upon, madam commissioner, to intensify our dialogue with taiwan on humanitarian issues, but also on matters of our fundamental orientation. democracy, human rights and solidarity are inseparable, even in this emerging asian country!
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. our former president otto von habsburg was once asked if he regretted being not an emperor but a member of the european parliament. he said, "no, because if i were emperor, i'd have to call a donkey 'excellence,' and that's how i can call a donkey a donkey". i have to think about that story when it comes to human rights issues. we are not a diplomatic body, we are a political-parliamentary body. we can tell the truth. there's a saying that goes, "fish stink from the head". it is not that - and i thank mrs weber for making it so clear - these incidents and murders in the caucasus are some kind of coincidence or the work of some dark forces, but since mr putin's seizure of power, which is linked to the issue of chechnya, with the mysterious explosions of houses in moscow, there has been a trail of blood for many years, which leads back to chechnya and hits innocent people: the civilian population and above all human rights activists who, like the above-mentioned - and many of whom we have known personally - are fighting not only for the human rights of the chechens, but for a democratic russia, for the reconciliation of the peoples of chechnya and the caucasus and for peace. these people are really being murdered one by one. that is why, mr de keyser, it was necessary to hold an urgent debate. we are ridiculous when a woman who has won prizes here in this house, who has visited us in strasbourg because of her commitment to human rights, is murdered before our eyes and we postpone the subject for some future debate. russia is looking very closely at our ability to respond immediately. and we must react immediately by saying clearly: no more killing, no more violations of human rights, freedom for chechnya and for russia, but above all no more systematic human rights violations and murders with mysterious backgrounds!
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. as a new member of parliament, let me first of all say that human rights issues also play a huge role for my party, the german left, and that we are concerned with condemning every violation of human rights, regardless of where and by whom it is committed. this has nothing to do with interfering in national affairs! for years i have been really concerned and outraged by the repeated killing of human rights activists who are dealing with the situation in chechnya. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why it is important that we deal with this here. i'm concerned that cases like the murder of anna politkovskaya are not being solved. if this trial is resumed now, i really hope that the guilty will be found and arrested, because otherwise there will be new bloodshed and this will become a license for such acts. what we expect is simply that these murders be immediately and fully investigated, that this be dealt with really ruthlessly, that russia no longer wait but take up the fight for the protection of human rights. it cannot be that the respect of human rights leads to people being sentenced to death in a certain sense. i also believe that the forthcoming eu-russia summit must urgently address these issues, not in the back of the envelope, but in the right place. i personally expect human rights issues to be dealt with honestly here too. i wish we were not discussing this on thursday afternoon, and i think we should also be discussing this subject when it comes to economic and trade matters. such questions often play only a minor role. we want to change that, and that's what i was going to say here!
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, let me say that my group was a little surprised to find the legal assessment of a tragic car accident on the agenda again as a resolution in the context of the human rights emergency. it is therefore important for the epp to state that we do not want to question judgments handed down by an independent court, unless they are obviously show trials that do not satisfy any legal principles. we just saw that in iran. a clear line must be drawn here. we believe that an independent judiciary is a core element of any democratic order. in that regard, we must first of all take note of the present judgment. we must also take into account the fact that a person has died in a car accident - we must be sorry, we are sorry - but that a legal process has also taken place. the fact that yevgeny zhovtis is a well-known civil rights activist involved in this case has brought him worldwide attention and resonance, which is why we are dealing with it today. the epp recognises kazakhstan's efforts and progress towards democracy and the rule of law. we express our support for kazakhstan and encourage it to continue along this path with determination. in view of the specific case, we call on the kazakh authorities, in their own interest, to go to the public with as much information as possible and to present their view of the matter and to allow mr zhovtis a fair, rule-of-law appeal or review procedure. kazakhstan is to chair the osce. this is a very special challenge!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i'd like to say that i'm very pleased to have heidi hautala back. but she was away for a few years, and during that time we had the council here on thursday afternoons. the czech and german presidencies were here on thursday. i do not think we need to postpone the debate, because we cannot do everything on wednesday, but we must be there and we must force the council to be there on thursday afternoon as well. the answer is that rather than focusing the whole agenda on wednesday. in fact, this is a very difficult case. but precisely because we cannot yet fully trust the government of kazakhstan in terms of the rule of law, we must insist that the case be investigated objectively. i fully support elizabeth jeggle in that. that is why we signed the resolution. the matter must be examined objectively. nothing can be covered up or embellished.
author. − mr president, i would like to present the case of mr muhannad al hassani. he has been imprisoned because he defends the human rights of his compatriots in syria. he played a very important role because he observed all trials before the supreme state security court and made regular evaluations of detention conditions in syria. he is now himself detained and imprisoned. with regard to syria, we ask that it fulfil its obligations and therefore comply with the international covenant on civil and political rights and with the un convention against torture, to which syria is actually a party; that syria reverse its policy of repression against human rights defenders and their families; and that it release the human rights defenders, prisoners of conscience and peace activitists who are in prison. we also have a request with regard to the eu. with respect to the signature of an association agreement we, the greens and efa, have proposed the adoption of a road map prior to the signature of the association agreement which would articulate our objectives in terms of improvements to be made in the human rights field. international law sets a series of obligations that states have to respect, and it is also our responsibility, and in particular of the entire eu, to ensure that respect thereof enters the association agreement as a way to enforce that further. we will work in that direction. thank you for your support for the resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that we must, of course, be very critical of the human rights situation in syria. it's a dictatorship and a police state. mr. al hassani must be released. but we also have to see that president assad - who is now opening up his country - and his father, for example, as an alevi, have fostered the coexistence of muslims and christians in a way that a leading syrian christian, cardinal daud, told me that christians in syria feel safer than in iraq, which is backed by western troops. that is why we should be differentiated in syria, clearly denouncing the human rights violations, not giving in, but supporting the country on its path of rapprochement and opening up, being critical of course, but also recognizing that there are approaches here that we should cultivate.
the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments. the commission is not it is a true statement made by my colleague joseph daul. yes, it's true, joseph daul is someone who respects freedom of speech in every way. he's known for that. but there are people in europe who do not respect freedom of expression to the same extent as joseph daul, but who have a different understanding of freedom of expression. that is why we are having this discussion. we therefore think that this is appropriate in view of the debate which is taking place in one member state of the european union, namely italy. but not only because of the italian situation, but because of the question whether freedom of expression, due to the transfer of media, economic and political power to a degree that we have not known in europe until now, is not a danger to the democratic development of europe. that is precisely the point we wish to discuss. that is why we should do so and reject mr daul's motion. (applause from the centre)
the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments. the commission is not we are discussing the outcome of this referendum. much has been said about the institutional aspects. i have nothing to add to what prime minister reinfeldt has said. i think it is good that he is not rushing, but says: 'we are waiting, because nothing has been achieved, nor do we need to take the final steps of this ratification procedure before we can answer institutional questions.' you, mr president of the commission, were as pleased as we all were. i am sure that your joy was somewhat clouded on sunday evening, because the 382 votes you received for your vote were 55 votes from members of a group whose aim is to bring down the treaty of lisbon. you have to think about it, when you're cheering lisbon, you're being supported by the people who want the exact opposite of what you're trying to achieve. think about it and base your majorities on a pro-european majority in this house! (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is not a question of institutional games to be played now. it is not a question of how majorities are formed in this parliament, but of something much more fundamental, and that is what you have to say to the president of the czech republic: the 27 member states of the european union have a combined population of 500 million. china has 1.3 billion people. india has 1.1 billion people. together, these two countries make up one third of the world's population! in the meantime, these countries are also represented at the g20 round table. the largest european member state to be present at the g20 is sitting there, representing the economic power of just 82 million people. we have two options: the lisbon treaty is not about making the union stronger against the member states, as vaclav klaus claims, but about something else entirely. it is about making the union strong as a global partner to strengthen the individual member states. that is the explicit aim of the lisbon treaty! on the contrary, this treaty serves the interests of the smaller member states of the eu. a country with 10 million inhabitants - take your country, mr president of the commission - such as portugal is no longer in the situation of the 19th century in relation to brazil, but in the 21st century it is clear that brazil is the stronger country. portugal, like all european countries, needs the union to be strong as a whole. the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations. the question to be asked of president klaus is therefore: can you as an individual - i do not deny that you have a constitutional right to do so - in the balance of the responsibility you assume, shoulder that responsibility all by yourself when all the other governments and parliaments and now 67% of the irish who voted for it disagree with you? we will have to ask mr klaus a question. is he aware that this continent is facing a crucial turning point, the turning point of whether unity makes us strong or isolation makes us weak together? that is the crucial question! the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to bring about a change in the legal and political situation in the community. mr klaus should face his historic responsibility and sign this treaty.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. my group has always advocated binding referendums on the reform treaty throughout europe. the electorate in ireland was the only one who had the opportunity to make their decision directly a year and a half ago. if you want citizens' decisions, you have to accept their outcome, even if you don't like the outcome. the irish government has violated this democratic principle by holding a second referendum, also under pressure from other member states. now they have the result they wanted. we on the left are committed to the principle of democracy, but our concern about the political direction of the eu remains. the number of votes against in ireland also shows that we are not the only ones. the three main areas of our criticism are: first, the policies of financial market liberalisation, tax competition, the decoupling of fiscal policy from economic policy and the dismantling of the welfare state have contributed to the economic and financial crisis. this policy has led to the expansion of poverty and inequality in europe. apart from declarations of intent, little has been done to regulate financial markets. on the contrary, as unemployment rises, the big banks are expecting to make solid profits again. the lisbon treaty continues this policy of market economy with free competition. we cannot agree to that. we are instead calling for a fundamentally different approach to social challenges. our aim is to introduce a social progress clause with minimum wages valid throughout the eu. equal pay for equal work in the same place. wage dumping must be fought. the second criticism is that demanding that member states gradually improve their military capabilities is incompatible with left-wing objectives, as is the incorporation of a defence agency into eu primary law. we will not agree to worldwide military missions to enforce interests. we do not want such a treaty, we want a treaty on disarmament, not on armaments. it is paradoxical to be called anti-european for this reason. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to bring about a change in the situation in the community. this is politically absurd! the irish referendum has therefore taken place, and even if it does not meet all our wishes, we say: we will continue to advocate more direct democracy in europe as a left.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one thing that has not been properly appreciated here today is the fact that the positive referendum in ireland was by no means the first positive referendum on the constitutional process that guy verhofstadt has mentioned here. we have had positive referenda in luxembourg and in spain. so it's not like this was the first one. it's always fun to listen to mr. farage. but today wasn't fun. the anti-europeans are really bad losers. the shock of a two-thirds result is really deep in the bone, it went right down to the marrow. today, for once, it wasn't fun listening to you. it was also interesting to see timothy kirkhope turn over in his seat because the tories are so close to this funny party in their european policy positions. i really hope that changes someday. we have seen that there is democratic support for the european integration process from ireland. is there enough democracy in europe, is democracy in europe perfect? i'm sure it wasn't, but it was a good day for democracy in europe. now there are some who complain that ireland has been put under pressure. mr de rossa has made it quite clear that it was a sovereign irish decision to have a second vote. let us remember how the european union tried to boycott austria when jörg haider came to power. it's just not working. we cannot put pressure on our member states. our member states have sovereign powers in these matters. others complain that the crisis is the only reason ireland has now agreed. the crisis has shown ireland european solidarity. that's a good thing. we also expect european solidarity when the houses in bulgaria or hungary are frozen because russia and ukraine are once again fighting over gas. european solidarity is a positive thing. if it leads to that result, i think it's very good. the contract opens up new opportunities. there are a number of areas - budgetary policy, judicial policy, domestic policy - but the most important for me is foreign policy. even if mr swoboda says that we should not have institutional debates, the debate on the european external action service must be conducted seriously. we must speak with one voice! this parliament - and i say this clearly to the commission, but also to the council - wants a strong high representative and an efficient european external action service. we want a broadly based eac, we want it close to the commission, and we want it to have access to all services, including the services of the council secretariat. this is also the litmus test in the commission's hearings. and this will be the litmus test for the future of european foreign policy in the 21st century, that we can speak with one voice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. like many who have spoken before me, i am happy about the irish 'yes' and i want to congratulate all those who fought for it, especially the irish green comhaonta glass. but if it's true that this is a holiday, then it's a hard-won holiday. it would be a mistake to go back to the usual institutional processes, complacently, as if nothing much had happened. the president of parliament, in his first statement, said that we should also hear the votes against clearly. i would add that we should also hear the hard-to-hear voices of those who did not feel it necessary to take part in the european elections in june and thus help to promote this process. what do i mean? i mean that we must recognise that a committed way forward can only succeed if we make a more serious effort than before to involve citizens. we must have wasted time. we've lost years. europe has fallen behind internationally. you only have to look at the g20 summits to see that. but europe will only become more dynamic if its citizens are more involved. i do not think that because of the stubborn attitude of the czech president, the czech people should now be put under pressure by saying: 'if you have any doubts, you will not get a commissioner!' but something else is even more important: it would be a grave mistake to vote for tony blair or any other possible candidate for the presidency of the council behind closed doors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i propose that we hold a hearing in parliament of all the candidates for this office. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the commission! i am very sorry that those who went into the irish campaign with a campaign of lies in the first referendum now have to find that the parliaments of 26 countries have ratified the treaty, that ireland has ratified the treaty in a referendum and that all the decisions of constitutional courts have so far been in favour of the treaty of lisbon. this fact cannot be discussed here. secondly, we must say that the treaty of lisbon is, compared with the treaty of nice, a treaty of parliaments and citizens and therefore a treaty for more democracy. thirdly, i would like to thank my irish colleagues, the irish people and their opposition leader, mr enda kenny, who must be included in the list. in conclusion, i am convinced that the ratification process will continue, because all the parliaments have ratified. i do not think that the czech president is following the letter of the leader of the opposition of a country which has already ratified the treaty rather than the ideas of his own parliament and his own constitutional court! it would be as if a french opposition leader wrote to the queen asking her not to sign a bill in the house of commons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the papers i've so far been working on... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after eight years of intense debate and negotiation, we now have a real chance of getting this reform treaty, thanks also to the intensive work of many people in this house who have followed this project from start to finish in the convention and later in the intergovernmental conferences. i think parliament has played a good role in the reform treaty. i believe that if the constitutional court in prague, in the czech republic, gives a positive ruling, there will be no legal basis for president klaus to continue blocking the eu. and the other constitutional bodies in the czech republic will find ways to overcome such an illegal blockade. we are hearing that there may be new trouble coming from britain. but should a british government hold a referendum, not on the treaty of lisbon, but on the question: are the british for the eu or do they want to leave the eu? that is what we must do, not a treaty that has been ratified. that would be totally unacceptable. i think we have to learn from this: citizens need more information. i therefore hope that in the new commission we will also have a vice-president or a vice-president for communication and information, perhaps even a commissioner for citizenship. that would be the answer to these controversies on european policy.
- having regard to the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (a7-0205/2009),
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 8 october 2009. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
- the debate on the oral question to the commission on compensation for passengers in the event of the bankruptcy of an airline by brian simpson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (o-0089/2009 - b7-0210/2009).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much for your answer, commissioner. i am also a member of the committee on transport and i think it is very important that we have this question on the agenda now. brian simpson already introduced her to us. there is indeed a gap in consumer protection as it currently exists as far as air travel is concerned. this gap concerns the insolvency of airlines, which has already been discussed. i think it is very important to uphold consumer rights. we are. we are trying to protect the consumer as much as we can. i would like to add one aspect from the point of view of our group which has not played a role here so far, but which i think is also important in the discussions. because we want consumer rights to be protected, but we also want consumers to have choices. in the debate on how to close this gap, it is quite possible that a proposal which you are drawing up in the commission will lead to over-regulation, which may then hinder innovation in the provision of services in this area. consumer law also means that you should have a choice between different offers, which are available at airlines, for example. for example, there has been a trend in the way in which some very cheap air travel is now being offered instead of package travel and is also being accepted by consumers. don 't get me wrong . i do not want to diminish the rights of consumers in any way! i too am very concerned about the protection of these rights and we need a suitable instrument to do so. but we should see what aspects we have to take into account so that there is still a great diversity in the air transport sector and new offers can be launched, while protecting consumers and avoiding financial problems if an airline were to go bankrupt or have to declare insolvency. in that sense, i'm glad you said you were working on an answer. the direction was clear, there could be a relief fund. i look forward to the debate in committee, perhaps even this year.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, mr de veyrac, mr vlasák and mr gurmai have drawn attention to the cause of the failure, namely the economic crisis and the difficulties facing the air transport sector at the moment, whether they are low-cost or large companies. the european parliament and the commission, in perfect synchronisation, have launched a series of initiatives to respond to the crisis. we think of the question of freezing slots, which was voted by a large majority in this parliament, or the reform of the single european sky, which is a major reform of the air transport system, which allows airlines to save on fuel costs because we have reduced the distances between one airport and another. in order to give a concrete answer to all airlines, whether low-cost or non-low-cost, i urged the 27 transport ministers of the european union to bring the single european sky reform into force earlier than planned, which is a good way of enabling airlines to save fuel and thus avoid adverse situations for their economic structure. the failure of airlines would not only not cause any harm to passengers but would also be extremely important for the protection of jobs. we must not forget that this financial and economic crisis must not turn into an alarming social crisis. we know that there are problems in the air transport sector worldwide: i think we should look at what happened with japan airlines a few weeks ago, when they announced staff cuts. our duty must not only be to protect the citizens but also to ensure that good airlines can operate, thus safeguarding jobs. the european commission - and i apologize for the length of the speech - and parliament have worked in this direction. i can say that, thanks to our work, we have allowed the birth of a new model of a completely private airline: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. so there are no longer state-owned companies that, in case of difficulties, make their debts pay by the citizens but debts must be paid by those who may have made mistakes. i also want to answer the question of mrs magdalena alvarez, who has raised a very interesting point: i think i can accept your proposal by adding to the work we are doing the suggestion that airline passengers who close their business not because of bankruptcy but because they do not meet safety criteria should also be protected. in this case, the passenger is damaged as the one who had bought a ticket from a company that then failed. the principle must be to protect the passenger when he is injured, that is, when he is not on board. and this is the philosophy that inspires and will continue to inspire my action as long as i am commissioner, so that passengers can be protected in all areas of transport in the same way. that is why tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, at the transport council in luxembourg, we will also be addressing the issue of the rights of passengers in maritime and inland waterway transport, which is a choice made by the commission, supported by parliament, which is in the direction of protecting the european citizen. if we really want to win the confidence of the citizens and achieve positive results like those achieved in ireland, we must legislate in a way that shows the citizens that the community institutions are on their side, that these are not the realms of bureaucracy but are places where work is done to protect and defend the rights of european citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote on any motions for resolutions will take place at the next partsession. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
- the debate on the oral question to the commission on the report on the implementation of council regulation (ec) no 2157/2001 of 8 october 2001 on the statute for a european company (se) by klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-0092/2009 - b7-0211/2009).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european council adopted a decision on the statute for a european company in 2001. for various reasons, it did not enter into force in this form until 8 october 2004. and as is customary in european union legislation, the commission is asked to submit a report on the application and implementation after a certain period of time, in order to draw conclusions from it, if necessary, on the question of the need for amendments to this act. october 8, 2004 was almost exactly five years ago. the deadline was five years, but there is no report from the european commission. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. we simply want to give the commission the opportunity to justify this to us. in any event, it shows that parliament, and in particular the legal affairs committee, is fully complying with its duty of control vis-à-vis the commission. i shall not take up my five minutes, but i would be glad if the commission would now reply on the basis of this short oral question, which i have interpreted.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask mr mauro a question. i have spoken to mario mauro several times in preparation for this debate. mario was in my office the day before yesterday. i have a very, very friendly relationship with him. so i can ask the following questions without any emotional fuss: can you imagine that the reason for the complex debate in italy is that italy is the only democratic country i know where the biggest media entrepreneur is also the head of government? could it be that this intersection of interests is what is leading to the debate we're having here? (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. after my colleague mario mauro's convincing speech, mr schulz suddenly admitted that it would be very good if we now talked about europe as a whole. unfortunately, the title of today's debate is italy. i can imagine why some people are not interested in talking about europe as a whole. if i look at the media holdings of the german social democrats, for example, i find that they own 90% of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper, that the german spd owns 57% of the neue westfälische zeitung and that they have a share in the waz media group. the biggest source of income for german social democracy today is media participation. i can therefore imagine why some people are not interested in talking about other issues of participation, but only about italy. the debate is taking place on the situation in italy and the good statements in the sand. i am not italian myself, as you can hear from my speech, but the most convincing argument that runs through my mind is the question of what happened between 2006 and 2008, when we had left-wing governments in italy, and at that time - as mario mauro did - everything was perfect and everything was fine. the government of that time did not come up with any legislative proposals to finally end the concentration of the media, although the power was there at the time. today, when we have a clear majority for our bourgeois parties in italy again, there are suddenly problems again. this debate is full of lies! as long as the social democrats, the left in the house, have no more arguments to push us into a corner, i can deal with this debate very calmly!
i have to say, madam president, before i make my personal comments, i should like to make a point of order. i believe that it is not appropriate for a member of the commission or of the council, or even for a member of parliament, to speak in the circumstances which the house has just given to mrs reding. you can't do that! (applause from the centre) i therefore ask the bureau of this house to consider how to put an end to this indignity, that during the last stages of the debate and during the declarations still being made here, there are talks like those between vice-president vidal-quadras and his former colleague from the group of the european people's party, who are absolutely interested in nothing but their bilateral talks. i don't think that's going to work. i would ask the bureau to consider this again. i would like to make a comment on a statement by mr weber. mr weber addressed me personally in the debate on freedom of the press in italy and mentioned the media involvement of the social democratic party of germany. (disturbance) i would like to say as a member of this house, but also as a member of the executive of my party, that i understand mr weber. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. (disturbance) i just want to say: the media holdings of the social democratic party of germany in their present form are the result of the restitution of the german media after the expropriation by the nazis and the communists in the gdr. we german social democrats are proud of this media participation!
madam president, we would like to introduce the following oral amendment to amendment 13: ‘urges the development of country-by-country reporting that provides a comprehensive view of each parent company of a group for investors, stakeholders and tax authorities, thereby facilitating a more effective and transparent international overview of tax-led decisions’.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i want to support the motion and speak for it. not every issue in europe is an issue for europe. we are practicing subsidiarity. and we as the epp have confidence in our colleagues in the parliament in rome, and we also have confidence in the courts of rome, the italian courts, which can decide for themselves what is good for italy and what is not good for italy. the italian parliaments have just proved their independence. we are happy to discuss freedom of expression, but then please discuss freedom of expression in the european union. this must be made clear in the application and in its title. that is why we are asking for support for our motion.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to say that we do not share the concerns of the epp group. it is quite simple: we believe that further development of sis ii is unnecessary and politically incorrect. we are of the opinion that this is the case for three reasons: firstly, because it mixes intelligence and police data, creating a data system which is no longer controllable and in which personal data are not protected. the second is the biometric data, which will be incorporated here as a major experiment, and the third is, of course, the use of sis ii against so-called illegal immigration. that is why we are proposing that the sis i should be established. we think it is reasonable to develop this "as one for all". this is a pragmatic approach, even though we are being strongly criticized for it. we believe, however, that the approach as it is being taken cannot be taken any further. i could also put it simply: sis ii has de facto failed, and it is not worthwhile to dwell on it any longer - to put it this way - . the important thing is that money that has been misused is actually being saved here, and so we have fewer problems with the whole thing and we do not have to worry about the delay in sis ii. i am also saying this from a saxon perspective, that is, in germany, close to poland and the czech republic. i know that it would be more sensible to do something to stabilize the police force than to introduce something like this.
i would like to thank you very much for your answers, commissioner. i have received three motions for resolutions at the end of this debate. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 22 october 2009, at 11 a.m.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, we are against urgency, not because we think that we do not need to take urgent action, but because we believe that the commission is not taking the right action and is not willing and able to solve the present crisis in the milk sector. the commission is not part of the solution to the problem, it is the problem. it is therefore necessary to point out that the commission itself has caused part of the problems by increasing the quantity of milk. she didn't react at all for months during the crisis. the commissioner said four weeks ago that there was no problem, that the market would improve, that we just had to be patient. it is to this commission that we are handing over our powers and it is from this commission that we expect help. no, i don't think this is the right way! the commission was not able to say yesterday what additional funds should be spent on now. she talks about restructuring. but in recent years, this has meant fewer and fewer dairy farmers. it has not said how it intends to continue to strengthen producer organisations. no, she wants to keep spending money on export refunds. and there is no answer to how we can empower the producers in the fight against the supermarkets. the commission was unable to propose a solution yesterday. we therefore have serious doubts that the commission will now make a serious effort to resolve the crisis. we are writing a blank check without knowing what the commission is doing, how it is doing it and with what it intends to do it. but there is another point which is crucial to our rejection. we have fought for a long time as a parliament to get more rights - especially in the agricultural sector! the first thing we are doing now, just before we have the lisbon treaty, is to give these rights back. this can't be! that seems a little unusual to me as a new member. we must exercise our rights, we must have the debate here and we must take the lead! we're responsible for it, and i'm willing to accept that. but we cannot relinquish responsibility, we are called upon to do so as parliamentarians. we want to help the dairy farmers seriously and permanently. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. the urgency request made by the commission certainly does not meet all the requirements. i can agree with my predecessor on some points. but not to bring this request for urgency now would be a completely wrong signal to the dairy farmers outside who are waiting for at least the first reactions to take place. that is why i am in favour of this urgency motion. we shall then have the opportunity, in the course of the procedure, to improve this proposal by means of amendments and to waive the rights referred to by mr häusling. there are certainly ways of limiting these rights in time by means of an amendment, so that we give the commission the right only for two years and then decide again. i would therefore ask for support to put this request for urgency on the agenda. (applause from the centre)
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? we are now at a crucial time. in copenhagen, less than two months from now, the world will reach an agreement to meet the climate challenge. this agreement must meet three conditions: keep global temperature rise below two degrees, cover all countries and adapt future efforts to higher levels of ambition as new knowledge is gained. with 48 days to go until the opening of the major un climate conference, it is high time that political will was translated into concrete action. but the negotiations are going too slowly. several important questions remain to be resolved. many people now choose the very simple to be a business traveler in pessimism. let us be clear: the eu has a different mission! we want the eu to show leadership through a clear and unambiguous political will. for the swedish presidency, a comprehensive and ambitious climate agreement is of the utmost priority. the eu's response to the difficulties in the negotiations is that the pace must be increased. we're going to push to make sure the world reaches the agreement that it needs. we are taking on the challenge of bringing the rest of the world together in an agreement that is sufficient to meet the climate challenge. we are therefore working intensively on two tracks: on the one hand, to send a strong message to our negotiating partners, and on the other, to rally the eu around a strong negotiating mandate for the copenhagen conference. the eu already has a foundation through the climate and energy package agreed by the european parliament and the council in december 2008. i would like to thank in particular the commitment shown by many in this parliament in the work on the climate and energy package. the decision taken by the european parliament at that time gives the eu a strong position in the negotiations. this week, the final pieces of the puzzle are being added to give a complete picture of the strong negotiating position. the negotiations will be concluded at the european council next week and i know that many of you will be following them closely. i am glad that some of you will also have the opportunity to be in copenhagen. i also welcome the resolution which the european parliament is preparing. emissions must be limited to the level required to keep global temperature rise below 2 degrees. that means the offers on the table are not enough. the eu wants to reduce emissions by 30% by 2020, provided that other parties also make sufficient commitments. we see the 30% target as a lever to get others to join us in higher ambitions. by 2050, emissions should be reduced by at least 80%. but to keep warming below 2 degrees, eu action alone is not enough. everybody has to be in it. we have seen some encouraging signals from the new government in japan, for example. we are now calling on other developed countries, not least the united states, to raise their bids. developing countries have the opportunity to achieve sustainable development while reducing emissions. it is about planning for low-emission growth and integrating climate change and adaptation into national development strategies. it is a way of making climate and development policies permeate all policy decisions and ensuring that growth is shared by all, of building and opening up democratic governance, of contributing to gender equality and of combating and reducing poverty. we are making special demands on the fastest growing developing countries, not least china, which is the largest emitter. by 2020, emissions need to be reduced by up to 30% compared to what would have happened without action. development issues must be at the very heart of an agreement in copenhagen. the european council has concluded that climate change is undermining efforts to combat poverty and promote sustainable development. climate change is a threat to the mdgs. development experts will also be involved in the negotiations. we will give particular attention to development issues in the context of the negotiations under way. all countries, except the least developed, should bear the costs of climate change action, but we in the developed countries must show leadership by reducing emissions ourselves and funding important efforts. a viable international framework for cooperation and support to developing countries is needed. such a structure should also help the poorest and most vulnerable countries, which are often the hardest hit by climate change. there are adjustment measures. finally, let me stress that the eu is prepared to take its responsibility. the council is aware of the scale of the funding required. the commission estimates that by 2020 this will amount to some eur 100 billion per year in developing countries. we in the eu are also prepared to provide rapid funding for immediate action as early as 2012 as a way of increasing confidence between north and south in the climate negotiations. we face a great challenge in the final weeks of copenhagen. that's why i'm also turning to you for help. we need leadership from member state governments, action from national parliaments and support from the people of the eu countries. the european parliament has a very important role to play in the work to achieve our goals in copenhagen.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first of all thank you for giving me the opportunity to express the commission’s views on this sensitive issue. you are already aware that there will be no ambitious deal in copenhagen if the concerns of the developing countries are not taken into account, not only those of emerging countries, but also very much the concerns of the most vulnerable and the poorest developing countries. nevertheless, reaching a good deal in copenhagen is our common interest. developing countries are the most vulnerable countries to climate change. the eu is the first donor in the world and a leader in the fight against climate change. we have to combine our efforts. there is no place for north-south confrontation when you are dealing with climate change. i would even go further and say that no other alliance can be as determining and effective as the one engaging the most vulnerable countries and the ones who have put on the negotiating table the most ambitious proposals to fight this plague – that is to say europe. our general approach towards the most vulnerable countries, followed up to now through the global climate change alliance, is made up of three parallel strands, which are interlinked and are mutually reinforcing. first, building political alliances through reinforced dialogue on climate change. three joint political declarations have been signed respectively with africa, the caribbean and the pacific, plus one with the acp group as a whole. second, promoting sound policies and strategies linking climate change and development. i am of the opinion that climate resilience and low carbon policies must be integrated into wider developments and the poverty reduction strategies of our partners. there can only be a single development strategy, which incorporates climate concerns pursuing the objectives of sustainable development and poverty reduction. it is not a matter of choosing one or the other: both are essential. in this spirit, we already support the implementation of the existing national adaptation programmes of action of ldcs in 15 eligible countries. third, encouraging adequate eu contribution to finance climate actions, in particular for adaptation, which is the priority concern for those countries that are most vulnerable to climate change impact, but that hardly contribute to greenhouse gas emissions. we are only 50 days away from copenhagen. expectations are very high. and we are worried because the negotiations are dangerously close to deadlock at the moment. it is now the time for putting offers on the table. that is what europe has done, and that is what we expect our partners to do as well. firstly, we have made offers in terms of commitments. the eu has already put on the table ambitious targets and commitments – so far the second most ambitious on the table of negotiations. we have already guaranteed a unilateral 20% emission reduction by 2020, and we are committed to increase to 30% if comparable efforts are made by others according to their responsibilities and capabilities. second, offers in terms of financing. we are all conscious that a deal on financing will be crucial to achieving an agreement in copenhagen. to move forward in the negotiations, the ec issued in mid-september its own proposals on finance. one of them is the need for short-term international public funding for climate to be scaled up for the period 2010-2012 to respond as a priority to urgent needs identified in the most vulnerable developing countries and in particular ldcs, sids, and african countries as defined in the bali action plan. another one is the readiness of the eu to take on its fair share of the estimated financing requirements, public funding contributions being based on preferred criteria of ability to pay and responsibility for emissions. this may lead to an eu contribution between eur 2 billion and eur 15 billion annually in 2020. these proposals will be discussed by the european council at the end of october and will hopefully be the basis for a fully-fledged eu negotiation position on finance. but action by the eu alone is not enough. we strongly hope that other developed countries will follow our paths as the pressure grows before copenhagen. we count on developing countries as well. they have to take the opportunity offered by climate financing to fully integrate adaptation into their development strategies and to move gradually to low-carbon development paths for the longer term. although the focus has been up to now on adaptation for the poorest and most vulnerable developing countries, there is some ground to promote the design of low carbon development paths (i.e. mitigation), which are compatible with poverty reduction objectives in those countries. a specific focus on mechanisms to avoid deforestation and promote sustainable management of forests is crucial. indeed, the fight against tropical deforestation is the largest immediate mitigation challenge for the ldcs, and they can be beneficiaries, through mechanisms such as reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation schemes, of its international financing. similarly, ensuring in the future a more balanced distribution of the cdm (clean development mechanisms) investments in favour of the ldcs should also be part of the current reflexion on the reform of this mechanism. finally, a word on the delivery channels for climate funding. we as the commission are not in favour of creating new funds. new funding for climate should use existing and potentially improved delivery channels, promoting a decentralised bottom-up governance structure in support of country-owned actions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not it is a pleasure to see you, as a former member of the climate committee, in this debate. mr president of the council! i'm not going to tell you. it is perfectly right that the european union should send a clear signal to copenhagen. for the next 50 days, however, the music will not be played so much in copenhagen as behind the scenes at the conference. i've been involved since the climate conference in rio in 1991. the mood before these conferences is always the same, but there are also opportunities. i would like to see you, commissioner, more enthusiastic about the task of putting our american colleagues under pressure to take positive action. because you still exude a certain phlegm that we need to work on. i think it's right that we don't start a financial competition now. one says 15 billion, the other 30 billion. there are those who simply provide the money, who want to put 150 billion on the table every year. let us develop criteria for the use of the money. we shall then be able to make a major contribution from europe. but this barrel has to have a bottom. the crisis has been adequately explained. i would like to return to the opportunities for the industrialized world in the united states and europe. if we set the right standards, then we can develop efficiently. europe can then sell efficient machinery to the rest of the world, for example to china, where energy is currently produced in a highly inefficient way. so i see not only the imminent danger of climate change, but i also see a very real opportunity to use cutting-edge technology to advance the economy and the national economy. we must seize this opportunity. we have to be much braver. we must act as entrepreneurs, as political entrepreneurs. if we do not, we are lax and have taken the wrong course. i wish you luck and strength, commissioner. keep your head up. take the americans and the indians, we'll have half the rent in the house.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. president rehn has praised this parliament for its work in bringing about the climate package, and indeed we want to be more ambitious. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this result shows that the denial of climate change, the ignorance of these issues, is represented here in the house by a tiny minority that really does not deserve attention and that, although it has spoken out here on several occasions, is actually against the will of the citizens in all the countries of the european union. the atmosphere of the earth is where co2 comes from, which means that we need a global agreement for all countries, and not - as is already being argued in bangkok - several agreements: one for the usa, one for europe, one for the developing countries - that would be fatal. we need a global pact against climate change, and that means we also need a global pact of solidarity between rich countries and poor countries. that has been said many times here. climate change is an opportunity for us, and also for developing countries, to take a low-carbon approach with new technologies, with the modernisation of infrastructure. europe must help. we have joined in the funding of the demand that the eu needs 30 billion euros by 2020 and that financial instruments that are sustainable and predictable must be developed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to stress once again that shipping and aviation must be included and that of course forests and agriculture have their own important role to play. development and climate change are not opposites but must be brought together in a synthesis in copenhagen.
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the issue of climate change will concern us for much longer than the financial and economic crisis. there are parallels: both will cost a lot of money, and the point of copenhagen is to reach agreement on the financial instruments for the third world and the developing countries. the copenhagen conference must be a success and we can be part of it. we did a good job yesterday, we adopted the resolution in the committee on the environment by a large majority, and i think that this resolution will get a large majority here in parliament so that we can change the political climate on the way to copenhagen. it is often psychological, and we should all be involved. i have one specific request. we have been working here in the european parliament on the integration of air transport into the emissions trading scheme and we have successfully completed this. i would like to ask the commission and the council to ensure that this issue is followed up in copenhagen. we must reach an international agreement to include shipping, but also air transport, in a successor agreement to the kyoto protocol. these two transport sectors are growing disproportionately and contributing disproportionately to global warming. we should not exceed the 2°c mark. that's where the parallel between the financial crisis and climate change ends. once we have torn that mark, we will have irreparable damage to our planet, which means we cannot undo it.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to tell you. i am not going to go into detail. a meeting in brussels a few days ago with commissioner vassillou, the commissioner for health, and medical experts from all over europe focused on the theme 'health and climate change'. a very informative event under the slogan prescription for a healthy planet. the president of the european medical association, cpme, has used a very good image. patient earth is like a person suffering from a serious illness. the later you intervene, the more painful the treatment, and eventually it's too late for therapy. because then the patient is irreparably damaged. that's why we need to act quickly and decisively on patient earth. i hope we can all agree on that. it is equally true that climate change affects everyone, all countries on earth and all sectors of the european economy. i think there is an imbalance: we are placing very heavy burdens on the traditional participants in the european emissions trading system. but these represent less than 50% of the european union's emissions. that's why we need more shoulders, we decided last night. we also adopted amendments 198 to 202 to include air transport - mr groote has spoken of this - and maritime transport. perhaps we need to elaborate and differentiate more, but we're on the right track. the commission and the council must finally be more involved in this area. the eu summit in the run-up to pittsburgh and in pittsburgh itself made no progress on this. the council and the commission must do more here! and one last word: other regions of the world must now also do more, and i am very happy about the nobel peace prize for barack obama. but if he doesn't come to copenhagen and make a proper offer, then he loses his credibility, and that's why he has to deliver here.
co-chairman of the greens/efa group. the commission is not the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy is a very important one. he has proposed that the council should re-examine the need to set a 30% co2 reduction target for the european union, with a possible 40% opening for developed countries, and he has and this is central to the international negotiations proposed that europe should provide €30 billion for the climate fund for developing countries from 2020. what will you do, what can you do, to bring these important, unavoidable and just demands to the council?
co-chairman of the greens/efa group. president of the commission! in many briefings, including with senior un officials, we hear that the european union has fallen behind countries like china or japan in its efforts. how can you still say we're playing a leadership role?
president of the commission. − i think the internal market is the best way to protect all the member states, whether they are new or old, big or small, rich or poor. it is a policy of justice because it is the best way to protect the weaker, namely the consumers who are usually the weaker. it is also the way to protect small and medium-sized companies with regard to the big monopolies or oligopolies. so it is this – the inspiration for the internal market – that is such an important acquis of our european union.
chairman of the gue/ngl group. the commission is not they call for an early exit from the economic recovery programmes and for the rapid reduction of the budget deficits of the member states. but even your latest forecast only promises 0.1% growth in eu gdp in the last quarter of 2009. this is a 4% decrease for the whole of 2009. according to your own forecasts, the unemployment rate in the eu could rise to a good 11% in 2010. do you not think that premature drastic cuts in public spending could destroy the small beginning of recovery right away, or do you think that the financial economy is over for the time being and the small people should pay the cost of the crisis? already you are imposing scandalous conditions on the people of latvia, hungary and romania for eu emergency aid loans: lower wages, lower pensions, fewer public services and a higher value added tax. is this your idea of a social europe?
president of the commission. − first of all, precisely because we are concerned with the figures you have mentioned – and broadly i agree with them – they are indeed our forecasts. as i have said several times before, we are preparing the exit strategy but we are not recommending that we start implementing the exit strategy now. so we are saying that we should keep the stimulus programmes. the finance ministers have been meeting and i think that they have agreed that we should not implement the exit strategy before 2011. so we still need to keep the stimulus to our economy, precisely because of our concerns, namely on the social front and unemployment in particular. but, as you know, this crisis was also provoked by very large imbalances, by high public spending, by financial orgies. i think that we should not keep an unsustainable model so at a certain moment we have to come back to sustainability. this is also a question of solidarity with future generations.
chairman of the gue/ngl group. the commission is not did i understand correctly that 2011 could be the exit date?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe is freedom, democracy and solidarity, or, to put it another way, social and environmental responsibility. but you and the commission have for a long time been unilaterally focusing on freedom - and that too on economic freedom, purely economic freedom - and on regulating in many areas where regulation is not needed, but on not intervening and not regulating in the world financial markets where billions of dollars are involved, because you believed that this would be the best outcome for all people. we have seen the disaster that this has led to, and i ask you very clearly how and with what projects and projects do you intend to make it plausibly clear to this parliament and to the people of europe this time that you and the commission have learned from this disaster and are radically changing this course?
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - ladies and gentlemen, it is no secret that the environment committee has repeatedly - and this year too - expressed the view that the money available in the european budget is not enough to finance truly effective environmental programmes, the conservation of our biodiversity and a decisive fight against climate change. the council's decision to cut back on such a small amount of money is as incomprehensible as ever. that's why back to pdb is standard. but we must also make two points to the commission: firstly, we expect it to include the so-called assigned revenues for the agencies which depend partly on fees such as the european medicines agency in london or the european chemicals agency in helsinki directly in the hve and not create an artificial margin by omission. secondly, we expect the commission to come forward as soon as possible with a proposal on how it intends to finance the anti-smoking campaign help in the future, after the tobacco fund has run out. you see, it's all the same.
the committee on agriculture adopted an opinion on the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as rapporteur on the committee on agriculture and rural development, i thank the rapporteur-general, mr surján, for his continued willingness to discuss a compromise. this is necessary because the european agricultural policy is still the only fully community policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. however, storage and export refunds were still called yesterday's tools two years ago. at present, they are essential to overcome the crisis in the markets. we therefore call for and agree to an increase of around eur 81 million in storage from 2009 to 2010 and an increase of around eur 440 million in export refunds. however, this is currently not enough. i would still prefer 600 million euros for the milk fund. the 300 million euros we are now asking for for 2010 are absolutely necessary, and i ask that this money be permanently fixed in the budget as the milk fund. that would be the right and important signal. the situation on the agricultural markets is dramatic. the commission has hoped for self-regulation for far too long. we need a budgetary and general policy framework and rules for agricultural markets.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. my dear colleagues! mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission and the council are very much aware of the problems facing the community. why are the council's cuts, which we have to face every year in various policy areas, so stupid, so wrong and so shortsighted? because they are not oriented towards a common european interest. and that's what i'm criticizing politically. you as the council and the member states are also part of the common european responsibility, and our european expenditure is expenditure in our common european interest. it is absolutely incomprehensible how the budget for education can now be cut! one of the most successful programmes is the student exchange programme, which enables our young people to study in europe, to travel the world. why are you cutting this? we must do more for culture, cultural exchange and urban partnerships, because that is where europe and european acceptance from below are being built. and how can we cut back on communication policy now that we have all agreed that we must also communicate the good deeds of the european union to the electorate? i am sorry to say, but as has been said, these types of cuts are politically completely counterproductive.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not going to go into detail. i would also like to begin by thanking my colleagues mr surján and mr maňka for their cooperative cooperation, and i would like to start with mr surján's statement that the council would like to adopt a small budget. we believe that this is the wrong thing to do in times of crisis. in times of crisis, we need to have the political courage to act, we need to spend more money on the right, sustainable investments for the future. because we have an ecological and an economic crisis, and we have a crisis of hunger and poverty in the world. if we europeans want to do the right thing, we must change our policy objectives. we need a sustainability transformation, we need a green new deal, and this is in terms of the lisbon strategy, we need more sustainable technologies, green efficiency technologies, new drive systems and of course also new materials that are really environmentally friendly. it also means that we have to put more money into research and development. as i have just stressed to the committee on culture, we in the european union must invest more money in education and in training our young people, our talents, well and better, because then we can be sure that this is not money that has been badly spent, but that it will pay off in the future for the individual, but of course also for the success of our economy. but we also have to - and this is why the green new deal is really a cross-cutting task - change the structural fund policy and make it greener, in terms of refurbishing old buildings, in terms of new and more sustainable mobility concepts. we must change our agricultural policy, which must be more ecological. but energy production can also play a major role in agriculture and can be environmentally friendly and ecological. i see far too few approaches at the moment, but we must push this forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it is not enough to simply take money in hand, it must be spent on the right policy in this area. we need quotas, we need good rules, framework and regulation. if we take this money now - the 280 million euros which were now under discussion - it must go directly to the producers and their organisations. we'd like to redistribute some money. we do not think that we should spend 449 million euros on export subsidies in the milk sector, because we are destroying the markets, especially in africa. our proposal is to redirect the 300 million euros we spend on tobacco production and to make this money available to small dairy farmers. that would be more ecological and much more beneficial to the dairy farmers than what we are doing now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want a green energy policy, we want broadband in rural areas and we want europe-wide electricity grids. that would be a real contribution to future policy. that is what we expect from the negotiations in the next few weeks.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the effects of the global economic crisis in which we find ourselves are not yet foreseeable. we must realise that the crisis has not yet reached its full extent on the labour market. and what is the european union doing in this situation, where more and more people are threatened by poverty and unemployment and fear for their existence? the european union is setting new priorities in the budget. in particular, it is shifting its finances in favour of the sealing of its borders, high-tech military projects and the increasingly sophisticated surveillance of european citizens. the area of freedom, security and justice is to be increased by some 16%. the fund for the protection of the external borders is to receive an increase of 12% next year. the budget for strategic military security research will be almost doubled to a total of eur 215 million. the eu is thus, in the view of the gue/ngl, saying goodbye to its idea of establishing a european peace project. the draft budget instead follows the logic of the lisbon treaty, which commits the eu member states to the continuous modernisation of their military equipment and to the protection of external borders. the european left calls instead for a consistent peace policy from the european union. instead of a defense agency, we're advocating a disarmament agency. europe must focus its resources on civilian conflict resolution strategies, such as a pan-european civilian peace service and the promotion of independent peace and conflict research. we believe that this budget is increasingly based on war rather than crisis management, and that is why the left in the european parliament will not approve this budget.
i have to say, madam president, the congratulations of the group to our rapporteur are all the more heartfelt because we have opened a permanent construction site with the 2010 budget. it is a snapshot without the essential parts that we have taken from the lisbon treaty, including the commitments we are making there, so we assume that we can and must return to this budget relatively quickly, even if the focus then may be on the dispute over parliamentary rights and less on the contents of the budget. the council representative said: 7.3% more for research. we were part of it. we want this because we need it for innovation and because we need it to make our money in the future. but it also means that we have to think about the rules under which we allocate this money and whether we allocate it in such a way that the researchers for whom it is intended are not affected at all because they fail to comply with complicated rules. i would therefore like to call for greater cooperation between the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control. the committee on budgetary control believes that there are two reservations for thursday which have been rejected by the committee on budgets, and i would like to ask you, as the spokesman for our group in the committee on budgetary control, to approve them. the first concerns the staff of the commission, the so-called staff screening, an idea of the committee on budgets. we now know very well about 30% of the commission's staff, but we do not know anything about the 70% that are still missing. this reserve is used to get information about the 70% we don't know about at the moment. a second reserve is reserved for the budgetary procedure. we have the turnaround revision of the financial regulation at the end of this year and we would like to help the commission with this reserve a little bit because we believe that we need simplifications, that we need to enforce certain proposals in the financial regulation. i am very grateful to mr šemeta that under his leadership the commission is now consulting beneficiaries for the first time on the subject of 'obstacles and difficulties in the application procedure'. i would also like to call for this reserve because it concerns olaf, the office for the fight against fraud. the commission has been refusing to provide us with a working document since november last year, and in this way it has prevented progress in the discussions on the anti-fraud office and its legal basis. so it would be important to get a majority for these two reserves.
thank you, mrs. ugly! since you are addressing the commission directly, i would encourage the commissioner to really listen to the member. it makes it much easier to answer afterwards.
thank you very much, commissioner. there were some more questions from colleagues, but i understand that you do not want to answer mr garriga and other colleagues directly today. you may then wish to send your answers to your colleagues in writing. i'm sure they'd appreciate it. mrs gräßle, mr garriga and many other colleagues have asked additional questions.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the oral question (o-0093/2009) by gabriele albertini and heidi hautala, on behalf of the afet committee, and eva joly, on behalf of the deve committee, to the council: building democracy in the field of external relations (b7-0213/2009).
member of the commission. - thank you for the supplementary question. i made that clear after my trial, but i still think it needs to be made even clearer. the commission considers equal opportunities in general to be an essential part of european competitiveness, apart from the moral obligations that go with it. therefore, this equality will be a very important part of the following strategies, as we will propose in all relevant documents appropriate measures that can help. i would like to say that we must of course always stick to the treaty, but we are prepared to make full use of that framework.
member of the commission. - i think it is appropriate to emphasise that this commission has the highest representation of women that the commission has ever had. it is also appropriate to point out that my colleagues have been and are the most important portfolios. there's no doubt about that. i can mention neelie kroes, dalia grybauskaite, etc. it's just that every commissioner has a portfolio whose significance is substantial. so in this respect the commission has led by example, but it is clear that the decision on the commissioner is in the hands of the member state and if the member state does not put forward a female candidate, this is of course reflected in the composition of the commission. as regards the structures of the european administration, you know very well that the commission has plans to improve and improve this situation, because we are still far from adequate representation of men and women, and i am quite happy to say that thanks to the efforts of my colleague siim kallas, if you compare the figures at the beginning and the situation at present, we have made quite a clear step forward. but you're right, we're still far from a state that a man could consider satisfactory.
member of the commission. - i pointed out in my introduction that there are a number of situations which are either favourable or unfavourable. while it is clear that the fundamental decisions are ultimately made by individuals, it is also clear that certain institutions, policies, and arrangements give people far more freedom of choice than do others. so, among other things, i think it is quite obvious that we need to constantly work for equal opportunities, for the elimination of all types of disadvantages, whether direct or indirect, because at this moment it is not true that the choice is the same for men and women. unfortunately, women are still in a less favourable position, which is also reflected publicly in the way they approach places where political or economic decisions are made.
member of the commission. − in accordance with article 149 of the ec treaty, the content of education and the organisation of education systems are the sole responsibility of the member states. as stated in that article, the union contributes to the development of quality education by encouraging cooperation between member states and, where necessary, by supporting their action. the commission also considers that the choice of languages taught in schools in the member states must take account of the geographical situation and the presence of national minorities. this was underlined in the september 2008 communication 'multilingualism, an asset for europe and a common commitment', which states that efforts are still needed to increase the number of languages taught, especially in the choice of second foreign language, taking into account local conditions. among the ways to expand the choice of languages taught, the european commission suggests communication between educational establishments and education providers, supported, for example, by the comenius regio programme, partnerships with local stakeholders, and twinning with institutions in other countries. union programmes in the field of education, training and youth shall support the learning of all languages spoken in the union, including those spoken by minorities, and shall also support the mobility of young people across borders for the purpose of language learning. european cross-border territorial cooperation programmes may also support actions relating to training and social inclusion, including language learning. for example, the avenir éducatif commun project, supported by the france-england crossborder programme for 2007-13, aims to establish a crossborder network of schools, especially in the field of language learning and also of business initiation. the total cost is €2.2 million, with partners on both sides of the channel involved. another example from another part of europe is a project replicated in three crossborder programmes involving the city of vienna: austria-czech republic, austria-slovakia and austria-hungary. the project aims to prepare young people for life in the cross-border region of central europe, in particular by providing education aimed at acquiring linguistic and intercultural skills, communication and knowledge. the total cost of this project is eur 791 000.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you are an impressive example of multilingualism. firstly, i would like to ask the commissioner whether a project similar to the one he has mentioned, namely between austria and hungary and austria, the czech republic and slovakia, could not also be carried out between hungary and slovakia. that would be politically very useful and helpful. secondly, i believe that in the border area, more should be learned of the languages of the neighbouring countries, i.e. more czech in eastern bavaria, but not only in schools. we have a german-czech kindergarten in schirnding, for example. can you also support kindergartens? i am also interested in adult education, i.e. lifelong learning, so that the older generation also has a chance to learn the neighboring language in the border area.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by thanking you for allowing the urgent procedure to be applied to the two proposals that i hope will help the situation in the dairy market – one proposing that milk be included in the scope of article 186, and one regarding the management of the buy-out scheme for quotas. these proposals are the latest in a long series of dairy-oriented measures that we have adopted. i have taken note of your resolution of 17 september, and i hope you have noted that many of your recommendations are already covered in practice, covered by ongoing studies or will be covered by today’s proposals. as regards the long-term measures mentioned in your resolution, we have set up a high level group. the first meeting has taken place and we expect that the final paper will be delivered before the end of june next year. i am very happy to be able to say that the reality today in the dairy market is that prices are increasing and we are no longer seeing any buy-up into intervention because the market prices are better than the intervention prices. regarding my proposal, article 186 is an existing provision for a large number of products, but milk is not included. the recent price volatility that we saw, starting in 2007, has shown that it is, or it will be, necessary to include milk under this article, because this would then allow the commission to take faster action. yesterday, in the council of agricultural ministers and in comagri, i also announced this eur 280 million for dairy farmers. in order to be able to pay out this money quickly, i simply need the legal basis in article 186. the idea will be to allocate the money in national envelopes, according to production in the year 2008-9 and of course within the ceiling of the national quotas, distributed in a non-discriminatory manner to those dairy farmers most affected by the crisis. again, to use this possibility we need to include milk in article 186. when i say i announced the possibility of proposing eur 280 million, you have to be aware that the budget authority, which is the european parliament and the council of finance ministers, will have to decide on this amount at the ecofin meeting on 19 november. i also said yesterday that this is the last money that i have in my pockets, with the exception of the eur 300 million which is necessary as a buffer to avoid financial discipline. it is important for me to say clearly to you that article 186 is not a carte blanche to propose whatever ideas the commission might get. at this stage i can only say that private storage for different products – and this could include cheese – is a candidate, provided that the market situation is such that we can justify it. the second part of the proposal is the management of the quota system. the possibility already exists today for member states to buy up quota. what we are introducing here is the possibility that the member states simply reduce the overall national ceiling of the quota with the amount of quotas they have been buying out of the market. this is a voluntary scheme because it has been obvious in our discussions that compulsory schemes simply would not work politically. i look forward to hearing your comments.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not - i'm not sure. i am not going to go into detail. i am particularly pleased that this urgency motion has been adopted by a large majority in parliament today. we have thus set a sign for our dairy farmers and have not shirked our responsibility. unlike a minority of colleagues from other groups, we see this motion as an additional means of helping the dairy farmers in a difficult time. it is certainly true that this request from the commission comes very late and that it is behind the times. but better than doing nothing, he is always doing everything. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the programme would have to be mandatory for it to have any effect at all. but i do not see a majority for that in this house or in the council. in addition, this action is also unacceptable to some member states, since it would amount to a reduction in balances and also in the quota. the indication that the quota increase is to be given to priority groups is a decision which is already law. the inclusion of milk and milk products in article 186 for immediate action in the event of market disturbances is welcome. i would like to make a point of order here, however, that this measure be limited to two years. if it proves to be successful, we will agree to an extension. in conclusion, i would like to thank you for the 280 million euros. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. i know you don't have any more money. i ask for your assent on thursday to the motion for a resolution, which may then be amended.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. now we're finally getting some movement in the debate. the commission must now once again assume overall responsibility. we saw something different this morning. we would like to see more involvement of parliament. to be clear, we are not against financial aid. but you also have to realize that they are a drop in the bucket, literally. the luxembourg decisions have unfortunately not helped us to bring supply and demand back into balance - which is the crucial segment. voluntary quota buying-out, yes, but it will not have much effect because it does not contribute much to the reduction in quantities. i told you yesterday . we must take the court of auditors' report seriously and adopt a longterm policy, we must look at what the court of auditors has said. he said that in future we would need supply management, otherwise the whole system would not be financially viable, and that we would need a milk policy geared to the european market for quality products. we must do away with export refunds as soon as possible - that is an old demand of ours - and we have already pointed out their disastrous effects on many occasions. we really need a policy beyond this current crisis, and then we also expect answers from the commission beyond today. unfortunately, the commission has so far failed to give us the answers we need, namely that we must strengthen producer organizations to give them more market power and to put a stop to supermarket chains.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry that josé bové cannot be here, and i will therefore speak again. i have a few questions for the commissioner. does she really think the protests will end now with the funds paid out? as i said, i regard parliament's decision this morning as a blank cheque because we do not know what the commission will do with it. i repeat: the commission is not part of the solution, but part of the problem. i'll stick with it. but i also agree with you because you have to face the facts and now that the decision has been taken, you have to accept it and tell the other colleagues that we have to limit these measures. we want to limit this to a manageable period of time so that we can take back control of the action in parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what do you mean, restructuring? do you really think it is right that we continue to give money to make small farms give up, so to speak, and then give money to the larger farms? this policy is no longer effective. we must ensure that we use the money in the less-favoured regions in particular to maintain the structures most at risk.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is dangerous to resort to pure actionism so close to the final end of the milk quota system, which has been rather unfavourable to dairy farmers. this is also lagging behind the real time trend, as the market is now beginning to recover. that is why i reject this amendment. it is easy to see how the commission intends to exploit parliament's call for swift action. it does so by seeking to secure a permanent margin of manoeuvre independent of parliament by amending article 186 shortly before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. that is why i reject this amendment. i would, however, welcome the fact that parliament would grant the commission a certain margin of manoeuvre in crisis situations for a limited period of time. this would also be possible in future in times of crisis, as quickly as possible, by virtue of rule 142 of parliament's rules of procedure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. - i'm not sure. yes, we should agree to include milk in article 186, and i hope we will do so tomorrow. we cannot always criticise the commission for being too slow, for being behind, for saying that there is a silver lining, which is not there. now it has the opportunity to act quickly, and we should give it that opportunity and always show our own will to control it. we shall do so together with the amendment tabled by the epp group, albert deß. the 280 million euro - many have said so - is a drop in the bucket. but we must also recognize that it is the end of the financial year. you have to realize that there's no more. how do we deal with the whole situation? we want this 280 million to go to the dairy farmers who are most affected by the crisis. we are talking about the milk market here, but it is people, and it is the rural areas that we are talking about and about which we always say in other topics that we want to protect them. commissioner, please support the milk fund. the commissioner has given his assent to this in the budget debate this afternoon, and i should like to make that clear. i was looking forward to it. we need that signal urgently and the money is in the 2010 budget.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to welcome your proposal in principle. i would like to make a critical comment on the voluntary milk quota buyback programme. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think that this voluntary system of buying back milk quotas is counterproductive. it is not just that this regulation makes it difficult to reverse an increase in quotas that was initially granted. we are also giving them a financial value by buying back the milk quota and we are making it more difficult to balance the balance. i must reject any restriction on balancing. it is precisely at the stage of the expiry of the milk quota that the balancing instrument is needed to enable individual farms to orientate themselves more closely to the market. for the reasons i have given, i will have to reject this part of the request, but i will accept the whole request.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council and the commission are in the process of adopting a new directive. i would like to say first of all to the czech republic that i feel it is a kind of special political concession that mr klaus is behaving so badly as a loser. i would ask you very, very strongly not to allow a bad loser who, moreover, obviously does not even respect czech law because he does not respect the constitutional majority with which the treaty was voted in the czech republic, who disregards the laws in the czech republic, to now demand an opt-out for the czech republic as regards the validity of the charter for human rights. i think that would be a step too far in the direction of this czech troublemaker, and that the citizens of the czech republic, who have done so much for the reunification of europe when the germans fled there, deserve better. this is about president klaus. (applause from the centre) on climate: mr president barroso, you have rarely received such support from me as you will see today. i am very, very, very excited that you have said here again how important it is that the europeans commit a clear sum to this international fund for climate action for developing countries. i was ashamed to read yesterday that the german finance minister who negotiated in luxembourg compared the negotiations to a game of poker. he said that when you play poker, you don't tell what's in your hand. but the preparations for copenhagen are not about a poker game at all. it is about the greatest challenge, as mrs merkel and other leading politicians in the european union have said time and again. it is about the most important challenge facing the community living together on this globe. i think we need to get serious about this. the eu is committed to providing €100 billion from 2020 to help developing countries meet their climate commitments and adaptation measures. for a country like germany, that would be about 3 billion euros from 2020. compared to what we are providing today in stimulus packages or to rescue the financial sector, that is peanuts. and i am ashamed that the failure in copenhagen is being accepted with this awful and embarrassing poker game. the european union, as it negotiated yesterday in luxembourg, is not the locomotive, it is not taking the lead in international climate action, but it is one of the big blockers. do not think that what is being discussed in luxembourg today and in brussels next week is not being followed around the world. i can only appeal once again: mr barroso, stick to the commission's line, the financing must now be prepared in a transparent way for this international fund, that's what it's been about for two years, since bali. mrs malmström, i think the swedes are negotiating well, you must be consistent and respect the vote of the environment committee in parliament. it's about a target of actually 30 percent co2 reduction by 2020, and if we do less, we'll never reach the 2 degree target. i have a big problem with the credibility of the swedish presidency. i think you should finally persuade your state-owned company vattenfall not to rely on coal everywhere in europe and even now to invest primarily where you do not have to buy certificates. this strategy of your state-owned company vattenfall is counteracting your good reputation in the preparation of the world climate negotiations. please also ensure that vattenfall's action against the federal republic of germany for the obligation to implement environmental legislation in germany for vattenfall's coal-fired power stations is withdrawn. i think you have a small black spot that's growing on your good white vest. and make sure you're in order before you go to copenhagen.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. for a quarter of a year there has been much speculation about staffing matters and the possible entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which my group has rejected for three good reasons. we want - to put it in a very simple way - firstly, the priority of social policy in europe rather than radical market orientation; secondly, disarmament rather than the development of military capabilities; and thirdly, more direct democracy rather than a europe of the elites. it should finally be about concrete questions of substance. while there is a dispute over names and positions, more and more people are unemployed. the banks will be bailed out, of course. the commission is also calling for the early withdrawal of the economic recovery programmes, which were set for 2011 yesterday, and for the rapid reduction of member states' budget deficits. this means: wages and pensions will be cut, public services and social security will be reduced, higher value added taxes will follow, collective agreements will become scarce. a recent example of this is to be found in the german building cleaning industry, which has been on strike for three days. these are the problems facing the people of europe and the council should deal with them. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the lisbon treaty. if this is as simple as it is being done, then, ladies and gentlemen, please think more deeply about a social progress clause in the treaty of lisbon. that would be much more appropriate! at the beginning of the legislature there were a number of good proposals for a more social eu policy. it was also about a new economic programme for europe, about creating and maintaining jobs, about higher investment and sustainable ecological growth. the european employment pact for more and better jobs, equal pay, empowerment of workers and improved working conditions was called for. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. i cannot see any strategy towards these objectives in either the member states' or the commission's policies. the council will of course now have to discuss the composition of the new commission and the possible changes to be made under the lisbon treaty. the problems raised and their solutions must be the focus. my group will in any case make its vote on the commission's college dependent on it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the demand by václav klaus for an amendment to the charter of fundamental rights is as arbitrary as it is superfluous. but it is also easy to encounter because the charter only refers to eu acts and applies only to the future. so if it is necessary, the council should make a political statement. we hope that in a few weeks' time we will have the ratification of the treaty we have been waiting for for nine years. the european council must make the preparations, but it must not jump to conclusions. this applies to the european external action service. it is the high representative who should propose a concept for this service, not the council bureaucracy. i therefore ask the presidency of the council to ensure that the service is not placed in a one-sided position but can be integrated into the community system, as president barroso has said. the treaty of amsterdam provides the legal basis for a common energy policy and for a common climate policy. i can only hope that the fog will lift as far as copenhagen. we cannot leave the questions open until the conference. and the environment committee has also made clear its position on funding. i hope that the summit next week will be able to agree on a financing concept. we also need internal burden-sharing in the eu. germany and other countries must give in, we need a fair deal both within the eu and between the eu and developing countries around the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon treaty is on the finish line and now it is time to look ahead. we must make europe more social, we must make europe more ecological, and we must make europe more democratic. we have a lot of catching up to do. i want a europe in which the citizens do not see themselves as mere spectators, not merely as objects, but as subjects of this european community. i want a europe that people experience as a citizens' europe, and there is still a lot to be done. i said that the treaty of lisbon was on the way to its goal. but it's on the finish line that the unsportsmanlike acts are concentrated. i cannot understand why we should now, just before ratification is completed, be witnessing an increase in flagrant violations of the european spirit and european law. what we have to watch is one individual among the european presidents trying to take his people, his country and all of europe hostage. he suddenly declares that the charter of fundamental rights should not apply in his country. and if what i heard yesterday is true, he's already been assured of that. this is an unprecedented development and i would be glad if it could be put right here and if it could be made clear that there can be no such assurances. otherwise, it would be a return to the middle ages, when, under the absolute arbitrariness of the princes, only the rights allowed by the ruler were valid in each country. but we are not in the middle ages, we are europe and europe is a community of law, a democracy. the czech parliament and the senate have already approved this treaty without any such demands being made, and for good reason, of course, because they want the charter of fundamental rights to apply in the czech republic. she's the heart of this contract! and we shouldn't let the heart of the treaty be torn out without a fight. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. europe is a community of law, a democracy. europe is not a bazaar. that means that we must protect the charter of fundamental rights from such macabre deals and by no means allow it to be relativized or questioned. we should not allow these things to become negotiable and europe to become a bazaar. the event is a testament to the importance of strengthening democracy in europe. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. you probably would rather have two weeks than two days for your summit next week, so many issues you have to discuss. these are issues that are really important to the citizens of europe, whether it be the economic crisis, how to overcome it, the prospects for more employment, climate change, and afghanistan. the issues are not new, but what is new is that this time it is possible to discuss all this with the perspective that the eu will actually become more operational, that we will get a new treaty. this is an encouraging prospect, and that is why you should now also make quick decisions on the common supervisory structure for the european financial markets, on a common foreign policy, but also on the preparations for the copenhagen summit. the commission has also been asked to make a statement on the future structure of the eu's governance, and to put an end to self-employment. what we need is not so much an umbilical cord, but success stories for the european union. i therefore wish you all the best, good luck and perseverance!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is not prepared to accept this. madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon treaty must now enter into force and be implemented swiftly. more than ten years of institutional debate is enough. we need these instruments to do something for the people. it is in this economic crisis that we must do something for the people in the fight against unemployment and similar problems. that is why we should end these debates quickly. that is why i am asking president klaus to clear the way here, after it has been ratified by all 27 countries and the constitutional court has already said yes twice in the czech republic, and it will do so a third time. it is also quite clear that the charter of fundamental rights applies only to european law. the land use is a matter for national jurisdiction only. pre-community law is not superseded by community law. that's three safeguards, so he doesn't have to worry. if this needs to be stated again in a european council declaration, then so be it. in this context, i would like to make one further comment: the implementation of this treaty must also reflect the three principles of the draft constitution and the constitutional convention: efficiency, transparency and democracy. and here i would like to talk in particular - we shall be debating this again this afternoon - about the foreign service. the idea of efficiency must not be at the expense of transparency and democracy, and in particular it must not be at the expense of the community principle. the fuses must be fitted. we say: part of the commission with a sui generis character one can talk about many things. i would therefore very much like to ask you, madam president-in-office, to abandon the plans that exist in your government and not to adopt guidelines on this foreign service at the european council next week, which would then restrict the scope for negotiation, but instead to reach final decisions on this subject with the new high commissioner so that we have a fair basis for negotiation.
the institutional changes of nice, the constitutional treaty and the treaty of lisbon have always had the broad support of the european people and the broad support of the majority of european states. it was always individual states that decided differently, partly for domestic political reasons. now 27 countries have decided in a parliamentary way - parliament is not a second-class democracy - or in a referendum as in ireland. the treaty of lisbon has the overwhelming majority, including the majority of your own country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european council also welcomed the commission's intention to continue to work towards the implementation of the lisbon strategy. i agree with all those who say that the council must adopt ambitious conclusions. but i warn you that both in terms of funding and in terms of who is doing the reductions, we always look at the industry that has been covered by the emissions trading scheme since 2005. we need more shoulders. more than 50% of emissions are not covered by emissions trading. so we need more shoulders to reach the targets and to secure the funding. i am speaking of the air and sea transport sectors, and i have been disappointed by the council and the commission so far. the issue was not included in the council conclusions during the preparations for pittsburgh. if we want to succeed in copenhagen, we must give it a go now. the environment committee did that on monday. i would ask the council and the commission to look into this. a second point: i know that this is only done in a very informal setting, but the council will certainly also be discussing the composition of the new commission. i would like to make a modest suggestion: for historical reasons, we have placed the area of pharmaceutical law in the directorate-general for industry and the commissioner for industry. of course, pharmaceutical legislation is an industry issue, but it is also a health issue, and in all member states and in the european parliament, even in the united states, this area is managed by health policy. so perhaps now is the time to consider a change here. i would ask you to forward this to the president of the commission so that he can deal with this question.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are nearing the date of the final ratification of the lisbon treaty and are currently considering how to implement it. we all know that a constitutional reality must be established which is as important as the written word of a constitution or a primary law as the treaty. i would therefore like to remind you of the intention, because what we are discussing now about the foreign service, the high commissioner and the vice-president of the commission is a result of the constitutional convention adopted by the intergovernmental conference for the treaty of lisbon. the intention was to achieve greater efficiency for the european union by moving towards a situation where europe speaks with one voice in this world. we need this new type of high commissioner and vice-president who also has to have a reasonable service to do the job. the second principle of the constitutional convention was transparency, and the third was democracy. these were the three starting points, and it was clear to the parliamentary majority of the constitutional convention, which included in particular the national parliamentarians, that the european union is better wherever it works according to the community method and is relatively bad wherever it works according to the intergovernmental method. in the spirit of this preparation, the implementation of the texts must not lead to a strengthening of the intergovernmental system, thus pushing back the community method, which is more democratically controllable, more effective and more transparent. i therefore sometimes find it difficult to understand why the member states are primarily interested in the organisation chart and not in how these principles are implemented. we do not want a new bureaucracy in the middle between the council and the commission, with 6,000 to 8,000 people, which will have a life of its own in the long term and become a kingdom that cannot be controlled. assuming that this service is assigned to the commission as an administration, we recognize that it must have a sui generis character. it cannot be a normal commission service because we have a shared responsibility in the field of foreign and security policy between the community and the council. the council must therefore be assured that its rights are exercised in a reasonable manner and that its work is carried out in good faith. it must be clear that national experts are treated differently in the commission than they have been in the past, namely on an equal footing. it must be clear that parliament's scrutiny rights and parliament's budgetary rights are not being reduced in any way, but rather strengthened. i would remind the commission at this point in the debate that we not only have the right to consult, but that we have forced parliamentarians to accept the commission's consent. and we will not leave the commission and the high commissioner out of the hearings. we must see that the european parliament has the right to take part in the decision on changes to the staff regulations and the financial regulations, as it does in the budgetary procedure. i would therefore like to invite the two institutions to explain in their statements how the principles of efficiency, transparency and democracy can be combined. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not - i'm not sure. thank you for the opportunity to speak here. our gue/ngl group has repeatedly made clear here in the plenary its fundamental criticism of the direction and the wording of the european union's foreign and security policy and has rejected the adherence to this line in the treaty of lisbon. the joint debate here deals with one of their most important reports at the beginning of this parliamentary term. unfortunately, although i can understand the motives of mr brok from the point of view of parliamentary activity, in a period of time which makes it difficult to have properly and responsibly weighed the dimensions and complex issues arising from this new structure in terms of content, especially since we are supposed to be getting something started. it is clear from the debate that everything is unfortunately still in the clouds and thus in the political power-poker between national interests and the eu structures. the gue/ngl group is opposed to this. it is therefore to be hoped and wished that, after the negotiations, the european parliament will have the opportunity to deal with the eda again, in accordance with the expectations expressed to the swedish presidency of the council here in the plenary this morning, after having been reluctant to formulate the negotiating mandate. we should also take parliament seriously in the interests of ensuring that the widest possible range of citizens are informed about the various aspects of the edf, particularly in the light of the doubts and criticisms of the lisbon treaty and the call for greater transparency and democratic participation in this respect. the discussions on the establishment of the ead have been taking place behind closed doors for months. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. this is not least because a lively debate, open and transparent discussions on the institutional structures would have been of great importance for its continued legitimacy and public accountability. i therefore welcome the approach taken by mr brok in seeking to obtain at least a parliamentary say on his report. and that is where some of our demands went. we reject - and i must say this here unequivocally and categorically - all efforts to include the political and military structures in the eac, whether now or at a later date, as was recently proposed in the council by france and others. the possible mixing of military planning tasks with intelligence structures and general diplomatic and political tasks is unacceptable in our view.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our group supports in principle the structure proposed by elmar brok in his report, in particular the retention of the european parliament's right of control and the retention of community tasks as community tasks. but if our common foreign service is to become a great addition and not just an appendage of the commission or the council, we must discuss its content and functions now. the eu needs a new, integrated foreign policy to deal adequately with the complex problems facing our world. the eu must be able to implement comprehensive and integrated policy strategies and campaigns through the external action service. we need this service now, for example, when copenhagen is about climate change. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would therefore like to promote four pieces of content which we believe will help the service to develop a new foreign policy. firstly, we want to have a directorate for peacebuilding and crisis management in the new service. we have the financial instruments and the missions, but so far there are only small and fragmented organisational units. secondly, we want the personnel to be properly trained and educated and not just to go to a diplomatic school and those who wear the uniform not just to be trained at the defence college. no, everyone must share at least part of the training, and that is why we are calling for a european external action academy. thirdly, we do not want a dual structure for the president of the council in the council secretariat. the european external action service should therefore also be involved, so to speak. in the area of the top jobs - my colleague tarand has already said this - we are convinced that it is time for a woman to join the train.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european parliament is the only institution in the world that has a right to vote. another important milestone towards a common foreign policy of the member states has been reached. it will be crucial to find a strong, independent and competent person for the post of high representative and to give the necessary scope and freedom to the high representative to be able to build and shape the service according to the needs, of course in line with the foundations of the european union, which also include respect for fundamental human rights. this is sui generis. it is essential that this be done in a transparent manner, that parliament be involved accordingly and that budgetary law and budgetary control be vested in the budgetary authority. it is also essential that national governments finally put their interests aside and commit themselves to this office and the tasks of the service, rather than constantly, as we unfortunately know, intermingling at will. but it must also be clear, and this is very important to us, that development policy must remain independent, because it cannot be mixed up at will. let us see the new office and the department for which we have fought for so long as an opportunity for the future, and not tear it apart and dismantle it from scratch. the european parliament is the only institution in the world that has a right to vote. that is the task, and that is what we must orientate ourselves to, nothing more and nothing less.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what do we want to achieve with the european diplomatic service? we want the political priorities of the european union for the 21st century to be implemented. many countries, many people outside europe, expect a strong role from the european union in securing peace, preventing conflict and restoring and rebuilding peace where it has not worked. that is why it makes sense to have a peacebuilding department. but in the negotiations, the representatives of the member states in the council are sometimes on both feet on the brake, and even the representatives of member states considered to be generally pro-european are at best on one foot on the gas and one foot on the brake. it generates a lot of heat, but not a lot of movement. we would therefore like to see the negotiations on a really strong european external action service with control by the european parliament succeed. the citizens want europe to speak with one voice. the people outside are expecting it. the ead will not be able to do this alone. but it's a step in the right direction. let's make this work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as budgetary controller, i am concerned to see how the commission and the council are playing off the european parliament on the question of the foreign service. we have no texts, and we are the only ones who have no texts, who are not involved and who have to accept what has been negotiated afterwards. this is a misdemeanor! what i see in this debate and after the statement by the two representatives is that we have a reduction in community instruments. we shall also see that there will be an opt-out from the instruments in which parliamentary rights are located, for example the financial regulation. we must be very careful as the european parliament. the question of who decides what? i have not been able to get a clear picture of the situation during the debate. i think that is an open question and i believe that if our budgetary and control rights and also our right to say what we want are not respected, we will have a very difficult cooperation with the council and the commission in the coming years.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i found it interesting that some of the honourable members who speak so warmly of democracy cannot accept that the lisbon treaty has been democratically adopted by 26 parliaments and one referendum. (applause) there is one man’s signature remaining, i agree, but i feel very confident that the treaty will enter into force very soon, and that we should have the external action service in place. that is a good thing. it is supported in member states, in national parliaments and, honourable members – if you look at eurostat surveys for instance – also by citizens all around the european union. this is because they think – like we do, like i do, like most people here do – that it is important for the european union to be able to act in a more coherent and stronger way if we want to promote our values and work towards peace and democracy all over the world. we should, of course, avoid bureaucracy and duplication but, as mrs ferrero-waldner said, we are building a new body. it is sui generis so we have to find ways to develop it. what the coreper is discussing in cooperation with the council, the commission and with members of the european parliament – mr brok and others, and i personally have also had several discussions with mr buzek in order to try to keep parliament informed – is the general framework and the tasks of the external action service. that now has to be discussed politically, and it will be the task of the high representative to then develop the details. that will be done in close cooperation and in dialogue with the european parliament. i am quite convinced of that. of course, there are still issues to be resolved. what is important is that the high representative has the instruments to execute his or her tasks in the most efficient way. that means that he or she has to be responsible for the eas administrative budget, but also for the appointing authorities. obviously any legal solution that we choose – and there are discussions still to be held here – must respect all the budgetary rules in place, thereby ensuring appropriate accountability. the council might not agree with all the details in the brok report, but i think it is a very valuable contribution to this discussion. i hope it will get broad support in this parliament. i would like to thank mr brok for the work he has done and for the debate here in the parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, again i want to say we are not deciding whether the external action service will be there or not: it is already there with the lisbon treaty. as my colleague just said, and i too am confident, the lisbon treaty will be in force fairly soon. i shall now comment on a few things that have come up in the discussion, and i think it is worthwhile taking them up. first of all, we, as the commission, are committed to making the eeas a success. it needs to be a shared enterprise with full buy-in of all the eu institutions and the member states from the very start. from my own experience as commissioner for external relations i think a lot of things will be done in different ways in future. i can see the need for the high representative vice-president to have a degree of managerial and budgetary autonomy. at the same time, it is clear that the eeas will need very close links with a wide range of commission services and therefore it is important that we work together. i support parliament’s objectives of ensuring transparent and accountable budgetary arrangements for the eeas. that is also clear so i think that we are looking forward to working for the right formula on that. second, under the treaty the political accountability for the european parliament is primarily through the president of the commission and the high representative vice-president and other members of the commission. we welcome the clear signal in mr brok’s report that the high representative vice-president should be the appointing authority for the eeas and the senior delegation staff. in the new system, heads of delegation and other senior eeas staff will be eu officials under the staff regulations, subject to defined appointment procedures and obligations of independence. we would have questions about the implications of singling out one group for ep hearings in this way. even if it were a question of hearings only for a more political post, the same consideration would apply. i think this is certainly not in line with the practice in member states. again, we understand, however, that parliament has an interest in having an in-depth exchange, be it formal or be it informal, with key senior officials in the eeas and the delegations. i think this could be done after somebody has been appointed; then they should go to parliament and discuss things with parliament. i have also noted with great interest and pleasure that the question of human rights and the question of women’s rights have been mentioned. i can only tell you that all the eu institutions are committed to gender mainstreaming. this will also apply in the eeas, but appointments also have to be on merit, so merit and gender mainstreaming have to go together. i wanted to quickly comment on the israeli government and my trip to the middle east. after the gaza conflict it was very important to obtain a ceasefire. i tried to contribute to the first ceasefire and i think it was my intervention in particular that made it possible to open humanitarian corridors and set times to deliver humanitarian goods at that very difficult and decisive moment. finally, on the matter of delegations, as i said before: they are open already. the european parliamentary delegations that you mentioned are already open for commissioners or for council members to go there, but it also depends on the time schedule. the situation should be the same in the future.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. - i'm not sure. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks here on a common european foreign and security policy are attacks of the past. 70% of european citizens in all opinion polls say they want a stronger common foreign and security policy because they know that this is the only way to preserve peace in europe and to promote europe's interests in the world. the statements you are making are those of the past which have led us into wars in europe, and we want to put an end to that. we want to continue to state that we want to strengthen the capacity for action with this foreign policy, and i would like to say explicitly once again: foreign policy is not the task of parliaments. operational foreign policy must be run by executives. this is also the case in all the nation states. but it means that parliaments - and in this case the european parliament - have full control, that it is made clear how this applies to the budgetary area, that there is a right to information on what issues and that there is real accountability. i would like to invite the council and the commission not to write so much in the papers about the organigrams, who gets what post from the national delegations, but to write the rights of parliament into these coreper papers and not just to say that the rights of parliament must be respected full stop. i think you should move around a little. i also believe that the high commissioner/vice-president who must be appointed must be involved in the development of the proposals and that no final paper is laid before him. that too should be taken into account. madam president-in-office, it would also be a confidence-building measure if you were to call the high commissioner in future: high commissioner/vice-president of the commission. then we're talking about the same issue, and that would also be helpful to realize that we're talking about the same issue. (applause from the centre)
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as you know, the link with the united states and the transatlantic cooperation between the united states and the european union are of great importance. it is a cornerstone of the eu's foreign policy, founded on the values of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights and international law, which is something that unites us. the new administration in the united states has shown great interest in deepening and developing relations between them and us in europe. we have the first transatlantic economic council with president obama's administration on 26-27 october. shortly afterwards, on 3 november, an eu-us summit will take place. these are two important occasions to strengthen our relations. that is why today's debate is very important. i would like to highlight some areas of cooperation in which we hope to achieve results and to deepen our cooperation at the summit. as regards climate issues, we welcome the increased ambition of the united states in this respect. we must work with the us administration to get a comprehensive, globally binding agreement in copenhagen. we call on the united states to set targets comparable to those set by the eu. the united states and the eu must be prepared to jointly support climate action such as emission reduction, adaptation, financing and other support to developing countries. another important issue is, of course, the financial and economic crisis. it will require very close cooperation to follow up the agreements reached at the g20 and to restore confidence in the financial markets. we will work together to ensure that the doha round is successfully concluded in 2010, as it is very important in the work to promote recovery and combat protectionism. of course, we will also discuss a number of regional issues, such as afghanistan, pakistan, iran, the middle east, russia and the western balkans. we have regular and increasingly close cooperation in crisis management, as expressed, among other things, by the us participation in an esdp civilian mission, eulex in kosovo. we also have cooperation on energy issues which now needs to be strengthened, and we hope that we can establish a special energy council between the eu and the us at ministerial level. there is an interest on both sides in deepening cooperation on internal and judicial matters. i shall come back to that in a moment, since i understand that the debates are confused. on non-proliferation and disarmament, cooperation between the eu and the us administration has gained new momentum, and barack obama is making this issue a priority. we hope that this will be reflected in a new joint declaration on non-proliferation and disarmament at the november summit. both sides of the atlantic have an interest in strengthening cooperation in development cooperation. the eu and the us account for the lion's share of the world's total development aid. the forthcoming meeting is therefore an excellent opportunity to discuss this and possible other issues at the very highest level. we are very pleased that the swedish presidency has given us the opportunity to represent the eu. i would also like to say a few words about the economic partnership and the transatlantic economic council, the tec. this gives us a mechanism at the very highest level which can speed up the technical negotiations under way and define new areas of regulatory cooperation. we need to develop a work programme for tec that can be set for next year. it provides us with a forum for cooperation, where we can address issues related to globalisation and rapid technological change. so far this has been an important forum, but it can of course be improved, not least in terms of the broader strategic issues relating to the transatlantic economy and common economic challenges. the transatlantic economic council is becoming increasingly important in the context of the financial crisis. let me now say a few words about judicial and police cooperation. we have been cooperating with the united states in this area for some time, as reflected in a number of extradition and mutual legal assistance agreements which will come into force in a few months' time. we often discuss this with the european parliament, which i know is an active and committed partner in these matters - often a critical partner, which is good. i can only recall in this context the discussions on, for example, passenger name records. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty will deepen the european parliament's influence and involvement in these issues. we are currently working on the so-called washington statement, which will describe the state of play of eu-us cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs. this statement must be meaningful and followed by concrete action. it does not need to be more fancy words, but cooperation must be concrete and operational. we must of course affirm our common values, namely democracy and the rule of law, and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. we are naturally interested in cooperation in all areas which pose a threat to these common values. we seek early consultation between us both when political events occur which may affect the other party. we underline our common ambition to work in international fora to achieve full implementation of multilateral commitments. we are working together to increase the security of travel documents and to introduce biometric passports as an international standard. an important example is the agreement on personal data for air passengers. we will work together to ensure that the agreement works, while protecting privacy and respecting the systems of the different countries. there is a long list of areas of cooperation. let me mention just a few: trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation of children, drug trafficking, financial crime, cybercrime, corruption, confiscation of proceeds of crime and the proceeds of crime, the fight against terrorism. all this requires joint and to some extent coordinated efforts. we have worked to improve judicial cooperation in the detection, investigation and prosecution of cross-border criminals and terrorists. we look forward to the entry into force of the eu-us extradition and mutual legal assistance agreements early next year. the agreements have now been transposed in all 27 eu countries, and a joint eu-us working group is in place to ensure that they are implemented. seminars are planned to help bring the actors closer together and monitor implementation. in conclusion, let me mention three more points. the first concerns the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. this is extremely important. the fight against cross-border crime and terrorism often requires the exchange of personal data, which to some extent forces us to make concessions in terms of fundamental freedoms and rights. this must be balanced by a basic and strong protection of personal data. cooperation and dialogue in this area continue and should be strengthened. the second point concerns critical infrastructure. we need to work together to address the damage that could be caused to critical infrastructure in the event of a natural disaster or terrorist attack or attacks on our information systems. it could have devastating consequences. there is a great deal of scope for cooperation in this area. thirdly, the eu and the us have committed themselves to working on the basis of the principles of freedom, democracy and justice. we are determined to promote these principles throughout the world. we do this when we work together and also in international forums such as the united nations. the cooperation between liaison officers and delegations has proved fruitful, for example in the western balkans and in afghanistan and pakistan. this cooperation must be improved. the various measures of this cooperation may be complementary. we also need to coordinate our technical assistance better. we will continue donor, aid and operational cooperation in latin america and west africa to help combat drug trafficking and to meet other challenges. i am very pleased that the american administration is showing such great interest in cooperating with us. we have every interest in taking up this invitation to work towards the incorporation of our values and interests in a constructive dialogue which will hopefully lead to concrete results in future cooperation.
member of the commission. − mr president, in my remarks i shall touch upon the forthcoming eu-us summit that will be an important milestone in our transatlantic partnership, as well as addressing certain eu-us aspects, particularly on climate change negotiations under way and also some critical gls issues. the change in the us administration in january has had a very significant impact on eu-us relations, and our partnership has got off to a good start. i would say we have re-energised our relations and i am convinced that the lisbon treaty, once in force, will also contribute towards the further strengthening of this vital relationship by providing the european union with an even stronger foreign policy identity. that is also what our friends in washington expect. but let us be also clear. our aspiration for a true partnership of equals with the united states also means that europeans must be willing and able to deliver. i would say that it is a dual momentum, internal and external, that makes the summit in washington so important. the first formal summit with president obama took place after our informal meeting in prague this spring. now the preparations for the washington summit are in full swing. we are working with the us side on delivering tangible results in priority areas. the global economy and climate change are likely to be the two major areas of focus of the summit discussion, in addition to a number of key foreign policy challenges. on the economy, the focus in washington will be on joint efforts to combat the economic and financial crisis and securing a sustainable global economic recovery to secure jobs and create growth. we will move further on governance issues for the global economy, notably on financial regulation and a timely follow-up to the g20 pittsburgh summit. the commission will also emphasise our joint interest in countering protectionist tendencies and we will call on the us to renew efforts to bring the doha round to a successful end. secondly, on climate change, we as the european union will encourage the us to go to the copenhagen conference with ambitious objectives to reach a sound global agreement, and we will also engage with the us to make progress on establishing a cap-and-trade system across the atlantic. thirdly, on foreign policy, we will of course also discuss with the us how to meet urgent foreign policy challenges. here we will focus on how to cooperate further and more closely on the middle east peace process, on the challenges posed by the nuclear ambitions of iran, and on ways in which we can assure the renewal of the compact in afghanistan, which is at the basis of our concerted efforts there. i will have a separate foreign policy meeting with secretary clinton and foreign minister bildt to discuss these matters in greater detail. furthermore, i expect the summit also to adopt a declaration on non-proliferation and disarmament, taking forward eu-us cooperation in many of the areas identified by president obama in his speeches in prague and new york. this initiative, which carries strategic importance in itself, is indicative of the renewed us commitment towards effective multilateralism, which the european union has every intention of supporting and consolidating. last but not least, a further major summit outcome will be the creation of a new eu-us energy council which will have its first meeting on 4 november. on the eu side the council will be chaired by myself, my colleagues commissioners piebalgs and potočnik and the presidency, and on the us side by secretary clinton and secretary chu. the council will look at global energy security, energy markets and product regulation, at new technologies and research. in short it will provide added value in a policy field, the importance of which is obvious. now there is also a new transatlantic economic council (tec). that will be complementary to the energy council, which we will re-energise as well. the tec meets in washington next tuesday – so before the energy council – and its outcome will obviously feed into the summit talks as well. a promising area in our transatlantic cooperation is what we call upstream cooperation. we will discuss policy approaches early on, so that we will avoid divergent regulation down the road. it goes without saying that we need such cooperation more than ever. the needed coherent response to the financial crisis is the best example for it. we will also explore whether we can intensify this forum of cooperation for nanomaterial health-care-related information. upon a us initiative, we also intend to launch closer cooperation in the area of innovation. both sides recognise that enhancing the innovative potential of our industries and our workforces is essential for the creation of jobs and growth and therefore for a successful emergence of the coming crisis. and the commission of course will also repeat our european concerns on some critical issues such as securing trade, potential distortions of competition from state aid and procurement policy in the us. finally, we as the commission have also from the very beginning strongly relied on the european parliament’s support for the tec process, and we are grateful for this. so rest assured that we will very much support the initiatives by the european parliament’s delegations for relations with the usa to strengthen parliamentary involvement in tec matters on both sides of the atlantic. we would like to consolidate the tec’s role as a bilateral forum to address both day-to-day and strategic issues regarding transatlantic trade and investment. and importantly the tec will have reached out to the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue and civil society stakeholders too, so clearly we need the expertise and political thrust of legislators to tap the full potential of the transatlantic market place. my colleague has already mentioned that gls will also be very important. there will be a troika meeting on gls affairs on 27 and 28 october in washington, in the framework of our cooperation on justice, freedom and security. vice-president barrot will represent the commission. we are in the final stages of preparing a statement that will aim to renew our transatlantic partnership in these areas. in the washington meeting there will be the opportunity formally to exchange the instruments of ratification of the extradition and mutual legal assistance agreements so that they can enter into force in early 2010. these agreements will strengthen our efforts in fighting crime in today’s globalised world. on another critical matter close to the hearts of the citizens, we certainly need to make further progress, as was mentioned. we will reiterate the call for visa-free travel to the us for all eu citizens; we will express our concern over the prospect of a fee for the electronic system for travel authorisation as the de facto new tourist tax; and we will once again remind the us of the need to lift the restrictions on travellers with hiv/aids under the us visa waiver programme, as you have mentioned. finally, a delegation from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs will be travelling to washington around the time of the ministerial meeting, so we trust they will also be able to convey the same messages. vice-president barrot is also ready to meet the committee on civil liberties delegation while in washington.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. gender mainstreaming has taken hold in this house, i'm just finding out. we must see that the question of the transatlantic economic council is very important and that what was started a few years ago must be given a new impetus, since we are in a period of transition - a new administration in the united states, soon a new commission. i hope that the meeting next tuesday will ensure that it continues and brings the appropriate spirit. a barrier-free transatlantic market brings economic growth of 3.5% for the us and europe, and 1.5% worldwide. in this economic crisis, in particular, this is very closely linked to jobs. this is why we should seize this opportunity and make it clear through public statements that we take this initiative seriously. the commissioner should ensure that energy security policy is dealt with in the new energy security council and regulatory issues are dealt with in the tec and that these are not mixed together so that we do not have duplication and that we do not end up with no solution at the end of the day. the question of the legislators is particularly relevant here. if we want to remove the barriers, we need the european parliament and the congress. because 80% of the regulations are legislation. that is why the administration cannot do it alone. let me make one final comment on the summit: climate change, afghanistan, nonproliferation, weapons of mass destruction, disarmament are important issues where new opportunities are opening up with the new administration. i wish you all the best, that all this is properly incorporated, and i hope that the new nobel laureate, in cooperation with the european union, will achieve great success for us all in these fields.
i have to say, madam president, madam minister! - i'm not sure. the fourth meeting of the transatlantic economic council is a good opportunity to turn a new page in the book of this forum. tec needs to be more ambitious. both sides of the transatlantic dialogue agree that overcoming the economic crisis and combating climate change are overriding priorities. the tec is now seeking to agree on a concrete agenda reflecting these priorities. cooperation on innovation for the development of low carbon economies, energy efficient societies is particularly important. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of consumers. for example, they could help to make consumer protection a central topic in the dialogue on financial market regulation. the goal of a transatlantic common market by 2015 may be too ambitious, but it must be measured against the fact that it improves the lives of our peoples. that's why we're green for a transatlantic new deal.
i have to say, madam president, dear colleagues! if we look at the fact that we as the european union need partners, as all the previous speakers have mentioned, this is particularly evident in the economic sphere. the transatlantic market has a trading volume of about 2 billion euros per day. the wto is important, free trade agreements are important, but the transatlantic partnership in particular should be given more attention. i worry about the other side of the atlantic when i look at the new president. the time will be found to accept the nobel prize in oslo, but on the margins of the g20 summit it was difficult for several european heads of state and government to get appointments with him. he had time to prepare for the olympic bid in copenhagen, but unfortunately he did not have time to celebrate with us a great celebration for europe, namely the 20th anniversary of the fall of the wall and the barbed wire. i would be delighted if we could also convince him that instead of thinking about whether to allow the tec to take place just a few days before, we should really be convinced that we are strengthening the tec for the next few years. we need to facilitate trade between us. we need to improve the common standardisation. we need the removal of tariffs and non-tariff barriers to trade. we must prevent protectionist measures from being created on both sides. we need to ensure that products are safe for our consumers. and we have to prevent counterterrorism measures from hindering all of these efforts, as is currently being discussed. and that's why i'd be happy if we could actually move forward with cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we should seize the opportunity to work with the americans on the one hand to solve our common problems, but also to try to act as a unified voice on the other hand, on a global level, when it comes to making progress in the wto or other international organizations such as the ilo and so on. i hope that we will have good results next week.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have prepared a large resolution covering many subjects. however, one essential point - trade - is only very briefly mentioned. i believe that the international trade area is crucial. the decline in world trade is one of the causes of the economic and financial crisis, and i would like to see this trade given greater prominence in the tec - the transatlantic economic council. the european union and the united states are not in agreement on all issues. on the contrary! we have some trade agreements, there is a risk of bilateralism, that the doha development round will not be resumed by the united states. so we should also address the critical points, and my hope is that now new impetus for the revival of international trade will come from the tec.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to return to a point of transatlantic police and judicial cooperation, namely the swift point, which has already been raised, namely the transfer of swift bank data to the united states. i think that it should be reminded once again that the council has given itself a mandate on the basis of which it is negotiating with the united states on this transfer of data and that it should be reminded once again that it may be adhering to this mandate in its negotiations with the united states. i am very concerned that the european council is being pressured here to accept the demands of the united states and thereby undermine the data protection standards that exist here in europe. i think that is a bad sign, because next year, with the treaty of lisbon, we will have many areas where the levels of data protection should be aligned, namely in the many agencies such as europol, eurojust, etc. i believe that it would be a good sign if the council and the commission respected the data protection standards and enforced them against the united states or insisted on a postponement.
president-in-office of the council. − i am of course ready to move from the us to cuba and mr posselt on a very serious matter, so thank you for your question, mr posselt. the council remains seriously concerned about the human rights situation in cuba, in particular the lack of progress for civil and political rights. the people of cuba do not enjoy freedom of speech and assembly. there is no free press. access to information, including the internet, remains limited. restrictions on citizens’ freedom of movement into and within cuba have not changed. there are currently 208 political prisoners in cuba. this figure has decreased from 2 034 in 2007, but most of the releases were due to completion of sentence. member states’ missions in havana are closely monitoring the list of political prisoners and have a special human rights working group where important cases are discussed. prison conditions, according to human rights defenders and testimonies of political prisoners and their families, are far below the united nations’ standard minimum rules for treatment of prisoners. some prisoners are in very bad health, according to their families, and do not have access to adequate medical care. there have been a number of reports of cruel and degrading retreatment, including beatings of prisoners, denial of appropriate health care and psychological pressure. still, however, there are no reports of prison guards or police being prosecuted for abuse. the cuban government denies the existence of political prisoners and regrettably continues to reject international scrutiny of human rights from independent human rights organisations. the council approach towards cuba was set out in the common position of 1996, which has since been evaluated by the council on an annual basis. in october 2008 the eu and cuba agreed on the resumption of a comprehensive political dialogue. this dialogue, in accordance with eu policies, not only includes the cuban authorities but also civil society and the democratic opposition. the council pays special attention to the principles of democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms in the 2009 annual evaluation of the common position. in the conclusions from june this year, we made clear that these issues will remain one of the eu’s key priorities in the relationship with cuba. the council particularly urged the cuban government to release unconditionally all political prisoners, including those who were detained in 2003, and we expressed our concerns for the prisoners and their health condition. furthermore the council called upon the cuban authorities to facilitate immediate access of international humanitarian organisations to cuban prisons. since the initiation of the political dialogue with cuba last year, the eu side has brought up the issue of political prisoners at each and every meeting. as stated in the last council conclusions, human rights should always be addressed on these high-level visits and, when appropriate, meetings with the peaceful pro-democracy opposition will be part of these visits. the council decided to pursue the dialogue with cuba because it provides an opportunity to discuss open issues of mutual interest and concern, including the human rights situation, but we remain seriously concerned about the situation in cuba and we will continue to follow individual cases, particularly prisoners with serious health conditions. regarding the particular situation of one of the prisoners mentioned by the honourable member, the european union has made a manifestation of solidarity initiated by the swedish presidency in havana in august. the manifestation was held to show the family of the arrested dr darsi ferrer that the union is concerned that national criminal procedural law is not being observed by the cuban authorities. equally the case of the other prisoner, mr alfredo domínguez, is also being watched by the presidency and raised in the dialogues with cuba, and we do have contact with his family.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank you very much, madam president, for your extremely good and detailed reply. mr brechtmann of the international society for human rights has given me detailed information on the conditions of detention, and i would just like to ask whether the council can try to check the conditions of detention of individual prisoners and how it assesses the developments in cuba as regards relations with the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i'm not going to tell you. i am not going to go into detail. the political situation in moldova may be eased by the election of a president supported by the european integration coalition as early as tomorrow. otherwise, as we have heard, new elections would be called early, and if they are, the eu should provide constructive assistance. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. about 1 million moldovans work and live in western countries, mainly in italy, portugal and austria. their turnout was in the single digits in the last election, and there are logistical reasons for that. for example, in italy, the only voting places were rome and bologna, and many of the moldovans scattered throughout the country did not take advantage of this for cost reasons. we, the ep, the commission, the council and also the moldovan government should ensure that more polling stations and special polling stations are set up for the next elections so that moldovans living abroad can take part in the vote. i would like to ask you to give your attention and your attention not only to economic and financial support, but also to the fact that we should be giving political support in a very conscious and constructive way.
mr president, according to the voting lists, amendment 464 from the green/efa group will fall if amendment 870 from the committee on budgets is adopted. the voting list follows the rule introduced in formulae by thomas von der vring, according to which the amendments adopted by the committee on budgets shall be put to the vote first in plenary, and if these are adopted all other amendments to the same budget line fall. however, this practice, which is not included in parliament’s rules of procedure, was introduced for the sole purpose of ensuring that the overall position on the budget adopted by parliament would remain within the financial limits set for the european parliament. as amendment 464 only proposes to place funds in the reserve, it definitely cannot pose a problem of exceeding the limits. in fact the two amendments are in no way mutually exclusive and can therefore definitely both be voted on. i therefore urge you to apply rule 161 of the rules of procedure and also allow a vote on amendment 464. (applause)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to put to the greens a proposal for an oral amendment. if you could accept it, i'd argue for yes. if the amendment were to include the phrase 'there should be no duplication of external service in the council or in the european council', i would recommend to the house that it should be adopted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make three comments on the decision on the milk sector: firstly, i very much welcome the fact that the commission can now act more rapidly in the event of market disturbances in the milk sector. secondly, i am pleased that we have succeeded together in providing financial support to european dairy farmers. thirdly, because money is not everything, we must now use this time together to prepare for the post-quota period. i hope that this will be achieved by means of an intensive dialogue between the political and professional worlds, because the question of how our dairy farmers should shape the milk market after 2015 remains unanswered, and that is, in my view, the main problem.
i would like to thank mr siekierski very much. i have two further explanations of vote. both members are new members. i would point out that, under rule 170, explanations of vote can no longer be requested once the first explanation of vote on a report has begun. i shall allow the two speakers to speak, as an exception, but i would perhaps ask the services to remind the political groups of this again in an appropriate manner. if we do not proceed fairly straightforwardly with the explanations of vote, things will go wrong. i give the floor to mr seán kelly.
in writing. i supported this resolution because i attach great importance to the eu-us summit to be held in early november 2009. at the recent g20 meeting, many promises were made which will be difficult to achieve if countries act on their own. in this respect, the eu and the us should take the lead in implementing the g20 commitments. and therefore we need more effective coordination between the actions of the us and the eu: that is why i encourage these joint meetings between europeans and americans and more particularly the discussions at the level of the transatlantic economic council (tec).
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on guinea.
member of the commission. − the commission has swiftly, firmly and repeatedly (the speaker was interrupted) condemned the massacres and gross human rights violations that took place on 28 september 2009 and that have continued since. by participating in the international contact group on guinea, the commission endorsed the conclusions of the meeting of 12 october, which provided for the adoption of various measures on respect for human rights. first, on a humanitarian level, it is necessary that all arbitrarily detained persons be released, that the bodies of the victims be handed over to their families, that all injured persons, especially women who have been raped, receive medical care. we can only express regret and concern that none of these measures appear to have been taken at present. secondly, the commission welcomes the decision of the un secretary-general to set up an international commission of inquiry to investigate the massacres of 28 september in order to bring the perpetrators to justice. it is imperative that we put an end to impunity and the degradation of the human rights situation in guinea. the international commission of inquiry and the preliminary investigations of the international criminal court will lead to an improvement in this situation. in this context, the commission is prepared to consider the possibility of providing financial support to the international observation and protection mission in order to protect the members of the commission and witnesses against acts of intimidation and to contribute to the establishment of a climate of security among the population of guinea. on the other hand, beyond the imposition of a total arms embargo, the commission is willing to examine the possibility of supporting security reform with a view to reforming and professionalising the army so that guinea can regain its stability. in conclusion, i would point out that the necessary measures under article 96 of the cotonou agreement were already taken on 27 july 2009. in addition, i would like to point out something that has been pointed out before, that for reasons of consistency and to increase pressure on the junta, the commissioner for maritime affairs and fisheries, mr borg, has announced the commission's intention to withdraw the proposal for a fisheries partnership agreement to be concluded with guinea. and, for the time being, there will be no payment (applause) to the appropriate financial counterpart. and to answer the question that has been put to me, in other cases the commission will of course act on a case-by-case basis and will examine the situations that have arisen on a case-by-case basis. thank you, sir.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on seven resolutions on iran.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. at the beginning of this plenary week, president buzek reminded us that the abolition of the death penalty is a fundamental concern of the european parliament. it is true for all regions of the world that this inhuman and cruel punishment must be abolished. he referred to executions that took place in iran. the resolution before us refers in particular to four death sentences. these are people who were sentenced to death for allegedly taking part in the post-election protests. but all four of them were in custody at the time of the alleged crime. so there's still a chance of appeal, and these cases need our attention. it has also been mentioned that minors are still being executed in iran at the time of the crime. iran is the only country that executes minors at the time of the crime. iran has ratified the convention on civil and political rights and the convention on the protection of the child and is therefore obliged to adopt a national law prohibiting the execution of minors. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i think that is a very important task. in conclusion, i would like to express my respect to all the women and men in iran who are taking great risks, who are taking to the streets, who are engaging in various activities to demand the granting of their rights, which are also theirs under the iranian constitution. their determination, commitment and courage deserve our full solidarity!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not on october 2nd of this year, iranian police refused to let a man on board a plane at the last minute. for his courageous work on behalf of the politically persecuted, lawyer abdolfattah soltani was to receive the 2009 international human rights award in my hometown of nuremberg. despite his valid passport, the iranian authorities have refused mr soltani's exit without any legal basis. his wife was allowed to leave. she rightly said, and i quote, "i regret that in a state that calls itself a god-state, acts are being committed that have nothing to do with god". iran has ratified the un civil rights pact, which is binding under international law, and it enshrines the human right to leave any country, including one's own, without hindrance. i think it is a scandal that iran is trampling on this right. i have therefore been campaigning for the inclusion of the soltani case in our joint declaration today, in our resolution on iran, and i would like to ask for your support.
it would be right, madam president, if the 'catch-the-eye' procedure were to be used to discuss this subject. you're taking time away from other colleagues. i'm closing the "catch-the-eye" procedure.
member of the commission. - allow me to begin by conveying my condolences to the families of the victims of sunday's terrorist attack in sistan va baluchistan province of iran. the commission condemns the terrorist attacks in every corner of the world and the loss of life caused by them. the european commission is deeply concerned about the current situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in iran. and when we talk about this, we mean, among other things, the executions of minors, discrimination against people belonging to different minorities, significant restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly, ill-treatment of prisoners, denial of the right to a fair trial, and the widespread oppression and intimidation of human rights advocates and political opposition. the european union has maintained direct contacts with iran and has openly presented its views to the iranian authorities on developments in the country. the european union supports fundamental freedoms and the universal values on which they are based and feels obliged to express its views whenever and wherever these principles are not respected. unfortunately, despite numerous calls and condemnations from the european union and the international community, the human rights situation has deteriorated further since the june 2009 presidential elections in iran. in recent weeks alone, many people have been executed by hanging in iran. one of these people, and you referred to him, behnoud shojaee, who was a minor at the time of the crime, was executed despite repeated calls from the union to commute the sentence. more minors are at risk of execution in iran in the near future. we are also concerned about the situation of seven baha'i leaders in iran who have been in detention for more than 17 months and who are facing serious charges, such as espionage and propaganda against the state. the last scheduled hearing was again postponed to october 18, with the seven persons again lacking clear prospects for proper judicial proceedings. after the presidential elections, hundreds of people were detained for participating in post-election demonstrations and criticism. the trials of the participants in the trial are continuing, and last week four people were sentenced to death for their involvement in the post-election incidents. in conclusion, i would like to stress that we share the concerns expressed by the distinguished members about the human rights situation in iran. the commission is closely monitoring the situation and will continue to use every opportunity to call on the iranian authorities to respect their international human rights commitments, including in accordance with the international covenant on civil and political rights and the universal declaration of human rights. improving the human rights situation in iran is a key element of the european commission's approach to strengthening political dialogue and cooperation with tehran in the future. and to answer the question that has been put to me, we do not think that it is appropriate at the moment, in the current conditions in iran, to have a european commission delegation in tehran.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on sri lanka.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. i've got two minutes. the 25-year civil war in sri lanka seems to be over. in may, government forces captured the ltte-held areas in the north. may a new beginning bring peace that is bound to freedom. people are suffering not only from the effects of civil war but also from the effects of tsunamis and other natural disasters. the eu has increased its external trade and grants more tariff concessions than any other country in south asia. international aid is also an obligation for the political forces in sri lanka to implement human rights. 250,000 people are held in overcrowded camps. their supply of drinking water and medicines is inadequate. aid organizations are denied entry. it should be in the government's own interest to organise the return to the villages as soon as possible. the epp calls for the international red cross to play a key role in this. another area where change is needed is freedom of the press and freedom of expression. the kidnapping and arrest of journalists must end. critical articles can no longer be punished with prison sentences. as a member of the saarc delegation, i have had the opportunity to visit sri lanka on several occasions. i believe that a new beginning for this country is possible if the tamil leaders make a constructive contribution. but this includes the rejection of all forms of terrorism and violence, and this includes cooperation in a strategy for the realisation of human rights. i wish the people of sri lanka that a statement i have heard over and over again, 'war is an institution' is finally a thing of the past. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not as a winner, you should be generous, and i think that many people in sri lanka have not yet realized this. the point is to resolve the cause of a national conflict which has escalated terribly. we just have to see that there is no concept to guarantee the tamils their legitimate rights. both sides must move towards each other to find a political solution. we have rightly fought violence, the perpetrators of violence have been defeated, and there is no justification for violence. the real task is to eliminate the causes of violence. it's easier to end a war than to make peace. we are seeing this at the moment in bosnia, where a viable peace solution has still not been found long after the end of the war. i am very concerned about the stability of sri lanka, because this minority problem has existed for centuries, aggravated by the colonial period, and that is why we must do everything we can to mediate between the two sides and bring both sides to the table.
member of the commission. − the european commission continued to monitor closely the situation in sri lanka and to engage with the sri lankan government in a meaningful dialogue aimed at laying the foundations for a new relationship in which both sides will make efforts to cooperate with a view to gradually resolving the main issues that are causing problems. we are deeply concerned about the critical humanitarian situation in the camps where internally displaced persons are being held. the indiscriminate detention of these individuals in sri lanka is a clear violation of international law. there is an urgent need to ensure that all those who remain in the camps have both freedom of movement and full access to these camps by humanitarian actors, including for registration, so that they can provide humanitarian aid and protection. the commission also remains concerned about the human rights situation in sri lanka in the context of reports of extrajudicial killings, abductions and serious intimidation of the media. there are obstacles to reconciliation on the island as long as tamil grievances are not taken into account and a climate of impunity prevails. the european commission is convinced that the essence of the reconciliation process is the responsibility of the parties for their own actions. the european commission has recently concluded an in-depth investigation into the human rights situation in sri lanka. the purpose of this mission was to determine whether or not the country was fulfilling the commitments it made when it became a beneficiary of the european union's special scheme for sustainable development and good governance (sustainable development and good governance gsp plus), namely its commitments to respect international human rights standards. the investigation has identified significant deficiencies in relation to three united nations conventions on human rights the international covenant on civil and political rights, the convention against torture and the convention on the rights of the child which indicate that sri lanka is currently not implementing these conventions. inevitably, this situation is likely to jeopardise the continued granting of additional trade benefits under gsp plus, as the condition is that all beneficiaries of the scheme have ratified and effectively implemented these three conventions. thank you, sir.
the debate is closed. we shall now proceed to the vote.
i would like to take this opportunity to say something about the explanations of vote we had this afternoon and now we have the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: the rules of procedure provide that, once the explanations of vote and the 'catch-the-eye' procedure have been opened, no more reports are actually allowed. i asked the services to make this public again. we have been very lax today, but we should be careful in future, otherwise we will be going far beyond the times we have announced to our colleagues. the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. i suggest that we remove reference no 3 from the resolution because the situation of journalist ti sei nayagam has only been dealt with at the outset, but not further in the aftermath. we have taken this off the agenda in our joint negotiations. that is why i recommend that we take the matter out of the debate at this point. i am sure that there will be an opportunity to discuss this matter again at another time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i apologize, but i have witnessed several times throughout the day a hungarian right-wing extremist speaking about hungary at every point. i would ask you to point out that we have an agenda with structured topics. perhaps the colleague does not know that yet. (applause from the centre)
i'm afraid your colleague is not here. i assume you'll take note of your remark.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.35 p.m.)
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, it is my pleasure to be back here again and to report to you on the results of what proved to be a very complicated and challenging european council meeting. let me explain the situation on the eve of the european council. we were in constant contact with prague and other capitals. how would we solve the czech request regarding the charter of fundamental rights? there were many different views, and there were calls for various exemptions and special considerations from several other member states. in contrast, we got a clearer message on climate change – the other main subject for the meeting. the message from a number of member states was that they were not ready to commit to figures on climate financing, i.e. how to finance adaptation and mitigation efforts in developing countries. given these circumstances, i am satisfied with the outcome of the meeting. let me point out the highlights. our objective at the european council was – as december’s climate change conference in copenhagen approaches – to continue to lead the way on climate change. let there be no illusions. the negotiations were both lengthy and difficult, but in the end our discussions led to an endorsement by the european council of the commission’s estimate of eur 100 billion annually by 2020, and it estimated that the level of international public support should lie in the range of eur 22 billion to eur 50 billion by the same year. the year 2020 is only 10 years away. we need to act quicker than that, and so the council noted that, in addition to this, we need global financing of eur 5 billion each year from 2010 to 2012. a final figure will be determined in the light of the copenhagen conference. the eu and the member states are ready to contribute their fair share, if other key players make comparable efforts. i am very pleased that at this european council we were able to reach agreement on a strong mandate on this. a few days ago, i returned from talks with prime minister singh at the eu-india summit in new delhi, and earlier last week i held talks with president obama at the eu-us summit in washington. thanks to the agreement at the european council, the eu was able to negotiate from a very strong position. our unity gave us the credibility to encourage others. we were able to present our commitments. we were able to express our expectations. and we were once again able to lead the way on an issue that is crucial to all citizens. last week’s meeting was also about the economic and financial situation. although there are signs of improvement in the world economy, the european council stressed that there is no room for complacency. next year, all but one of the member states risk exceeding the 3% deficit ceiling, and our collective gdp has shrunk by 4.7% since the beginning of 2008. both of these are strong reasons why we should not withdraw supporting measures until we have secured our recovery. in the mean time, we need to reinforce confidence and continue work on our exit strategies. at the european council, we made significant progress on strengthening financial supervision. we reached broad agreement on the establishment of a european systemic risk board. the presidency will now begin to discuss the proposals with this parliament. we want to reach agreement on a package for a new supervisory structure. we want to make sure that we do not suffer a repeat of the financial crisis we have just experienced. with all this in place and on its way, we must focus on safeguarding jobs. over five million europeans have already lost their jobs, and far too many will still face unemployment. it is up to us to change this trend. when i presented the priorities of the swedish presidency to you on 15 july, i said that the eu must emerge strengthened from the crisis. i told you that handling the economic and financial crisis was one of our most important tasks. it still is. for this reason, we intend to return to these important issues at the european council meeting in december. another important outcome of this meeting was the adoption of the eu strategy for the baltic sea region – a strategy that is based on an initiative from this parliament. our ambition with the strategy is to address the urgent environmental challenges related to the baltic sea, and to contribute to the economic success of the region. i am convinced that this initiative will also have a positive effect on other parts of europe, pulling regions together and making a positive contribution to the competitiveness of the eu as a whole. we also discussed justice and home affairs. we welcomed the progress made in implementing measures concerning illegal migration in the mediterranean, and we called for work in a number of specific areas. i know that you also want to discuss institutional matters this afternoon. they were, of course, an important element of the discussions. indeed, one of the key issues was to ensure the rapid entry into force of the lisbon treaty, which is crucial if we want to be able to confront the challenges that lie ahead together. the consultations were many and they were very complicated, but in the end we managed to gain acceptance for the request made by the czech republic. with this agreement in place, president václav klaus was prepared to sign the treaty, and – as you all noted – he finally did so a week ago. the final instrument of ratification is now being deposited by the czech republic with the italian authorities. this means that the lisbon treaty will enter into force on 1 december. i know that the vast majority of you here today share my satisfaction and relief that finally this long chapter of preparations for institutional reform is coming to an end. the european council also assessed other treaty preparations. it agreed on guidelines for the european external action service and it invited the future high representative to present a proposal for the organisation and running of the service. now to the question of names. we need to fill the positions created by the lisbon treaty. we need, together with you, to appoint a new commission. i plan to convene a meeting of heads of states and government on 19 november in order to nominate the president of the european council, the high representative and the secretary-general of the council. let me stress that the nomination of the high representative will have to take place before the new commission is appointed, and that this should be preceded by appropriate contacts with this parliament. as you know, since this person will also be vice-president of the next commission, he or she will also be subject to the parliament’s vote of approval. i will not speculate on who these persons will be, but i would like to say that it is not just the name that is important, but also what they will be doing and how they will do it. last week’s european council enabled us to make significant progress not just on one key issue but on several issues that are vital for the future of europe and vital for the future of our planet. i am grateful to my colleagues for their constructive attitude towards the challenges we face together. nevertheless, you and i know that much remains to be done. i can promise you that the coming weeks will be very busy. i look forward to continuing our close cooperation with this parliament on many of the important issues. the copenhagen meeting is actually now only 25 days away. the economic crisis is far from over, but we have a solid mandate going into the climate negotiations. we are determined to continue to work together to generate new sources of growth and higher employment. i am grateful for the continuing support from this parliament. i look forward to responding to your comments.
president of the commission. − mr president, let me complement prime minister reinfeldt’s assessment of the european council by commenting on two aspects, one on policy and one on institutional issues. as regards policy, the key deliverable was the very important agreement on our action on climate change. we all know these are difficult issues. when there is so much at stake, the road will never be easy. frankly, the european council result exceeded my initial expectations. we got the approval of the numbers the commission proposed, accompanied by strong conditionality. the message is clear: the european union is ready for copenhagen and ready to follow our action to cut emissions with a powerful offer on climate finance, just as the commission proposed in september, both in the longer term and in ‘fast start’ funding. if we want developing countries to come to the table with serious commitments on mitigation, then we need developed countries to put money on the table. our assessment is that by 2020 developing countries will need around an additional eur 100 billion a year to tackle climate change and this was fully backed by the european council, as is the likely share of public international finance in that figure, and agreement that the european union will pay its fair share. it is equally clear: other partners must show that they can match the seriousness of our intent. our policy is not about the european union forging ahead in the vague hope that others will follow. it is about using our leverage to bring about the maximum possible in terms of a global effort to cut emissions. when i was in washington and new delhi last week, i was reminded just how far these two partners have come in the past year or so. the same is true of others, like china. of course we will continue to respect the important requirement of common but differential responsibility for climate change but, as i have said many times recently, we are all in this together, and we in the european union will continue to push for real contributions from all the other players. we need to keep focused on the end goal – ambitious, serious, verifiable cuts in emissions to ensure that we keep within our target of limiting temperature increase to less than 2°c. so what are the prospects for copenhagen? it now seems to be likely that copenhagen will not see agreement to the fully-fledged treaty that we have pushed for and will continue to push for. but that is not a reason to accept anything less than a decisive breakthrough in these negotiations. in the end, it is content that matters more than form. in my view we should try to arrive at a fully operational agreement, based on real political commitments, that comes rapidly into force, and which brings all the major players on board for both emission reductions and finance. and we should continue to fight on for final agreement to a treaty – a binding treaty. to make that happen, we need to join all our forces in the remaining weeks to copenhagen. we have just shown that we can, by decisive joint action, agree on a treaty that has proven elusive for a very long time. that was the other major result of the european council: it lifted the last political hurdle to the final ratification of the lisbon treaty. now we can look forward with confidence because, as prime minister reinfeldt said, the lisbon treaty will be in place at the start of next month. in fact the commission is working on its implementation. today the commission has launched a consultation on the citizens’ initiative as a first, concrete step. i would like to pay tribute to prime minister reinfeldt for his sure touch in bringing this ship into port. the swedish presidency has done very remarkable work in bringing this final consensus to the european council. but now we have to complete the task of transition. the focus is of course very much on the filling of the new posts. it is not for me to comment on the candidates for the presidency of the european council but, as commission president and looking at the institutional matters, i very much hope that heads of state and government will select the personality that can provide effective leadership to the european council – a president with a strong european commitment that can give consistency over time to the european council activity, both internally, so that priorities can be set over a longer timeframe and not just for six months, and externally, so that on common foreign and security policy we send coherent messages to our international partners. i am committed to working in tandem with this president of the european council because that partnership will make all the difference. we need to pull together at the level of heads of state and government the common foreign and security policy on which the president of the european council will represent the european union at this level. we also have to put together all community competences – from the economy to trade, from enlargement to development, from energy to justice – where the european commission president represents the european union according to the treaty. i am committed to making this partnership work in the interests of a strong and effective european union at home and globally. that is obviously also true for the high representative. here i confess to a particular interest because that high representative will also be one of the european commission vice-presidents. on a very pragmatic level, because the nomination of the vice-president/high representative, and the other proposals by member states for the commission, will allow me to pass to the phase of finalising the next college and attributing portfolios. on a political level, because i am convinced that this high representative/vice-president, supported by a strong external action service bringing together european expertise in intergovernmental diplomacy with our community competences, can mean a real step change in the effectiveness of our external action. this brings me to the commission as a whole. i want a commission composed of competent and committed europeans, a commission that is ready to take all its right of initiative. i am working in my final discussions with member states to ensure that this is the case. i have asked member states to come forward with names, including women. then it will be for me to decide on portfolios. portfolios are not attributed to countries but to persons that are committed to our european project. i also want to have a commission with a strong democratic mandate. that is why i am determined to give full respect to the hearings process in this parliament. the delays due to the treaty have given us a common challenge. we must not delay the arrival of a new commission, but we cannot short-cut the hearings. i look forward to discussing how to handle this issue in the conference of presidents next week. the lisbon treaty will enable us to deliver better on citizens’ expectations – but whether we use the opportunities it offers will be first and foremost a matter of political will. the treaty gives us the capacity to act but we need the willingness to act together. that brings me back to the beginning of our afternoon. the europe represented here today – a europe united in freedom and solidarity – would not have been possible without the commitment and the dedication of people who made extraordinary things happen 20 years ago. we need to rekindle this flame. we need to have the spirit of 1989. if we show the same dedication and commitment, i am sure we will succeed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i believe that it is the memory of the historic events of 20 years ago which is particularly worrying in the struggle to realise the possibilities that have been opened up by the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. the great words of václav havel, his ideas on europe and what happened in the last council in the background of petty disputes over personnel matters do not seem to fit together. for me , it 's like this right now . the relief of the ratification of the treaty of lisbon after almost ten years is being replaced by concern that this will not be countered by the governments of the member states. what we really need, especially after the applause we gave to václav havel's speech, is an agreement that strong men and women must be put at the head of european union policy and that particular interests and also the interests of countries that are actually against greater integration should be put in the background. i am not yet in a position to congratulate you, mr reinfeldt, because there is no such convincing offer for these strong men and women at the head of european politics. i am sorry to say that i cannot share the great praise that has been given by various speakers to what we have achieved in the run-up to copenhagen. i have just returned from the last united nations preparatory conference in barcelona, and the summit here in brussels has confirmed that we are going to copenhagen with ever lower expectations. it is wrong that the europeans have now adopted the attitude that we have done everything possible, now it is the turn of the others. if you measure what europeans have actually done in terms of effective climate policy, in terms of co2 emissions, in terms of what has actually been achieved, in terms of what we have set reduction targets, in terms of what is regulated in our climate package, none of that is enough to achieve the two-degree target that is being touted everywhere. it's known internationally. if europeans now begin to question whether we really want a legally binding agreement, then this calls into question a process within the united nations that has been promoted for many years by many europeans. i think you should think again about what you are going to announce in copenhagen. in the background , i always fear one thing: the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the eu's environmental policy. václav havel also received a lot of applause for this. i have the impression that the europeans - as often as they emphasise this and as much as they like to applaud it - have lost all confidence in these jobs of the future during the economic crisis and that they are therefore, especially during the economic crisis, playing down successful strategies to create new jobs and markets of the future. i am very seriously concerned about this. the economic crisis is the worst excuse for not making ambitious climate action. climate change and economic development are two sides of the same coin, but you don't feel that anywhere in european decisions in the european council.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the lisbon treaty has been ratified by all 27 member states. many people may celebrate this as a great success, but my group does not. i have already repeated the reasons here several times and i do not want to do it again. the fact that the charter of fundamental rights will not apply to the citizens of three member states makes me doubt the great progress made in protecting fundamental rights in the eu. i would also like to add a specific comment on the occasion of our formal sitting today and on the speech by václav havel. but precisely because the left in europe wants social, peaceful and ecologically sustainable european integration, we will continue to use the treaty foundations in this sense. we have done so and we shall continue to do so. i can only welcome the fact that more rights are now being granted to the european parliament. the european council also welcomed the fact that the european union had taken the initiative in the field of human rights in the context of the un general assembly in geneva. the biggest challenge facing the world is climate change. the european union is unfortunately falling short of the leadership it has promised itself on the way to the world climate conference in copenhagen. the first is that the substantive commitments to reduce co2 emissions do not meet the requirements. it is also unacceptable that the eu member states are so obviously trying to avoid their financial responsibilities in a situation that cannot tolerate delay. the question is not whether sweden will soon become a major wine-growing region, although i grant you that. it is a matter of survival and, by the way, of peace in our world. already today, climate change is creating poverty and hunger, forcing millions of people to flee their homes. i'm sure everyone in this room has spoken about global challenges that are not national. climate change, poverty reduction and peace are just such challenges. if the european union does not act consistently and with a model attitude, it will lose international acceptance!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are getting more democracy through the treaty of lisbon, which has fortunately come into force, we are getting a consultation procedure for the high representative. all the commissioners are here, they are first heard and then checked. that's good. but the president of the council is not consulted here, nor is he subsequently monitored here or by any national parliament. it is a democratic misconception. he cannot be the political president of europe, he must be an honest broker between the interests of the member states in the council, that is all that is possible, and the minimum for his appointment is that he should at least be appointed by consensus in the council. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. i think that's absolutely right. we need someone to bring the 'european' back to the european council. if this debate - which was requested by the liberals - had not taken place in parliament today, we would all have been discussing this subject only in the media or in the corridors. i believe that transparency will be the rule in the next appointments. a call to fredrik reinfeldt: this is not just about balancing centre-left and centre-right; this is about balancing the center, the left and the right.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the speech by mr borghezio was a typical case of 'these anti-europeans cannot distinguish between the council of europe and the european union', because it was a judgment against the council of europe's court of human rights. in the charter of fundamental rights, that cannot happen. but let me make a few remarks on the debate today. i believe that the swedish presidency has completed the ratification process with great sensitivity and determination, which was still to be completed by four countries in its time. i would like to thank you very much for bringing this nine-year-old process to a close in this way. i think that this also gives us the opportunity to put this into practice. and in practice, constitutional reality is also written. it must therefore be clear that the president of the european council has only the legitimacy of the heads of government and that any operational president who is not dependent on parliament is directly elected by the people, in any constitution. the same must apply to the president of the european council. the only person who has full legitimacy is the president of the commission. i would also like to point out that mr barroso has pointed out how important the institutions are for the survival of the community, as jean monnet said. it must be clear that a high representative/vice-president of the commission comes into office as a unit. he cannot be sworn in as high commissioner on 1 december and then later as vice-president. he can only take office, as can the vice-president, if he has the consent of the european parliament. i don't want any misunderstanding, because we're gonna get into some legal trouble. i would also like to point out that the european parliament will exercise its rights when it comes to the foreign service. we do not want the lisbon treaty to be used to 'intergovernmentalise' europe, the spirit of the treaty is different. the foreign service has a crucial role to play here. i ask you to take parliament's position on this matter seriously, which you know, and not to make any statements here which we would destroy for you because we have the power to do so.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? as the president said, the eu-russia summit will take place in stockholm on 18 november. it is a good opportunity for the eu to evaluate our relations with russia. i know that many members of this house are following developments in russia very closely. i would therefore like to present the main issues which we expect to discuss at the summit and i am sure that the commissioner will be happy to provide further information on the areas which concern the commission's area of responsibility. in general, we naturally want the eu-russia strategic partnership to be promoted through the summit. we have much to gain from cooperation with russia in all areas. we need russia if we are to deal effectively with global challenges. but we must also make it clear to russia that our partnership must be based on respect for a common commitment and common values. it means respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the summit gives us the opportunity to put pressure on russia to fulfil its agreed obligations in these areas, but also in other areas. one of the most important issues will be climate change. the council will stress that close cooperation between the eu and russia is essential if we are to achieve a result in copenhagen. russia should commit to substantial and comparable reductions in its greenhouse gas emissions, consistent with the two-degree target agreed by the g8 in l'aquila. energy is linked to this energy efficiency and energy security. given russia's position as the eu's main energy partner, the summit gives us the opportunity to stress the need to restore confidence and predictability in eu-russia relations in the energy field. we will also express our disappointment at russia's recent withdrawal from the energy city treaty. we hope that a strengthened early warning mechanism will be established and approved at the summit. this should be accompanied by clear guarantees from russia, as well as from other relevant third countries individually, that the transit of or export of gas to the eu will not be reduced or stopped in the event of future energy disputes. we will of course also discuss the economic and financial crisis. the council wants us to agree at the summit on the need for continued coordinated action in response to the crisis and reaffirms our commitment to open economies and the need to avoid protectionist measures. the summit also gives us an opportunity to assess progress in the work on the four common areas. we will take this opportunity to stress the importance of moving forward in areas where progress is needed or where problems have arisen. russia's changing attitude towards the wto has created a new situation which we are analysing. delays in russia's wto accession will affect our bilateral relations, including the negotiations on a new eu-russia agreement. we will reiterate our support for russia's accession to the wto, and this is important for russia's integration into the world economy. in the meantime, we have to deal with the remaining trade and economic problems, such as the charges for flying over siberia, the border measures against commercial vehicles entering russia, the discriminatory road tolls, the plans to restrict the road import of containers, the export duties on timber and the recent protectionist measures. i am very much aware of the great concern of the european parliament about the human rights situation in russia. the decision to award this year's sakharov prize to human rights defenders in russia is proof of this. the swedish presidency shares that concern and we will ensure that human rights issues are given a prominent place among the topics to be discussed at the summit. we welcome, of course, president medvedev's statements on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, but this must be followed by concrete action. the human rights situation in russia is worrying. we would like to highlight in particular the recent events in the north caucasus, which has been the scene of violence against human rights defenders, law enforcement personnel, officials and the general public. the murder of human rights defenders and journalists is particularly worrying, not only in the north caucasus but also in russia as a whole. we will therefore reiterate our appeal to russia to do its utmost to ensure that human rights defenders can carry out their work without fear of violence, harassment or threats. in the field of foreign and security policy, we will stress the importance of maintaining and improving dialogue, including in our common neighbourhood. here we must cooperate with russia if we are to make progress in reaching a peaceful solution to the protracted conflict. we will of course not compromise on fundamental principles. we will bring up georgia and reiterate that russia must fully implement its commitments under the six-point plan of 12 august and subsequently the agreement of 8 september 2008. we must also restore the necessary confidence in achalgori, upper kodori and the perevi border checkpoint. we will also call on russia to use its influence to grant the eu monitoring mission access to the georgian areas of south ossetia and abkhazia in accordance with its countrywide mandate. the summit also gives us an opportunity to assess progress in the geneva talks, and we expect continued russian involvement in this area. we recognise that we must cooperate with russia on the so-called frozen conflicts in transnistria and nagorno-karabakh. we will stress the importance of continued commitment to conflict resolution mechanisms: the minsk group and the so-called '5+2' format in transnistria. russia's active commitment to promoting dialogue between the presidents of armenia and azerbaijan on the nagorno-karabakh issue is of course welcome. but we will also stress to russia the importance of involving the minsk group in all stages of the process. the eu is ready to engage and support the minsk process, including through confidence-building measures. the summit should express its support for the ratification and implementation of the new protocols between armenia and turkey. other issues in this area concern euro-atlantic security and the eastern partnership. on euro-atlantic security, we call on russia to actively participate in the corfu process in the run-up to a forward-looking decision in athens. the summit should ask for confirmation from russia of its commitment to the basic principles of the process, namely full respect for and implementation of the osce acquis, the osce as the main forum for the debate on the corfu process and the fact that all aspects of the overall security concept should be addressed in a balanced manner. on the eu side, we are willing to keep russia informed of all developments concerning the eastern partnership and reiterate that third countries may be eligible to participate on a case-by-case basis, as stated in the prague joint declaration of may 2009. the summit also gives us the opportunity to address a number of international and regional issues. i believe it is very likely that issues such as iran, afghanistan/pakistan, the south caucasus and, of course, the middle east will be raised. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this has gone a little far, but i know that you are very committed to this issue. it is an important summit with many items on the agenda and i look forward to hearing your views and suggestions as we make the final preparations for it.
member of the commission. − madam president, just a year ago we reviewed eu-russian relations and decided that the european union should – despite our major differences with russia over the conflict in georgia – pursue cooperation with this major neighbour, including on the negotiation of the new agreement. we also concluded that we should base our relations on the assessment of our own self-interest. the stockholm summit next week will therefore focus on areas – as has been said already – where there is mutual interest, for example climate change and energy, and the global economic crisis. the financial crisis has hit russia hard, and this is precisely the kind of policy area in which the european union also has a clear interest in seeking a common policy approach. the g20 commitments were an important step in the right direction. i think it is important that they are now upheld by all partners. it is crucial too that russia does not succumb to the temptations of protectionism. a tendency to protectionist practices is already hurting eu businesses. clearly, we believe that the best way forward is to work together in a rules-based multilateral format. the summit will be an opportunity to again stress the importance of russia’s wto accession. russia’s intention to complete negotiations in parallel with belarus and kazakhstan, with which it is planning a customs union, still leaves many questions unanswered. at the same time, we hope to get a better understanding of russia’s new approach at the summit. this is important, not least in the context of the ongoing negotiations for the new agreement which are being held by the commission and which must contain clear, legally binding provisions on trade and investment and also on energy. the summit should also provide definitive clarity as to the conditions concerning bilateral trade from 1 january 2010 onwards under the new common external tariff system of the customs union. turning to climate change, my colleague has already said that the summit should underline the leading roles that russia and the european union can play together in achieving results at the copenhagen meeting. russia has the scope to make a very substantial contribution, given its enormous scope for emissions reductions through improvements in energy efficiency. we will therefore be calling on russia to commit itself to more ambitious reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, comparable with the targets we have set ourselves in the eu. on energy security, work continues on an enhanced early warning mechanism. we regret russia’s withdrawal from the energy charter treaty (ect), but we recall that the principles of the ect were affirmed under russia’s presidency of the g8, for instance in the st petersburg declaration. these should therefore form the basis of our work on energy security under the new eu-russia agreement. while we should be ready to discuss russia’s wish for a wider debate on international energy security architecture, i think we will also want, above all, to establish the essentials of our bilateral energy relationship. while we work well with russia on many aspects of international relations, we need to make more progress in our cooperation in the common neighbourhood. we will therefore continue to explain our view that the political and economic stability encouraged by the eastern partnership is, finally, in the interests of all parties. we will continue to encourage russia to work constructively for the resolution of the outstanding issues and conflicts, be they in transnistria or nagorno-karabakh, and also through the geneva process. president medvedev’s proposal for a wider discussion of euro-atlantic security has led to a new process of talks under the aegis of the osce. i think it is now important that this debate does not distract us from the immediate task of resolving today’s frozen conflicts. the eu-russia strategic partnership must – as was said before – be based on common commitments in the area of human rights and democracy. russia has entered into commitments as a member of the united nations, the osce and the council of europe, and these have to be upheld. i think it is also crucial that we go further and work together on all the different issues. we know that the relationship between russia and the eu is complex but full of opportunities and also has a vast potential. we will therefore pursue our principled course of critical, but also constructive, engagement with our neighbour, confident that russia, too, knows its interests lie in maintaining a real strategic partnership with us.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not it is good that we have regular eu-russia summits, because there is a lot to discuss. the keywords on the long agenda include the planned cooperation agreement, the security of energy supplies, russia's accession to the wto, climate change, the situation in the caucasus and, last but not least, the state of democracy and the rule of law in russia. disarmament, arms control, a possible missile shield are other buzzwords. we also face together threats such as international terrorism and fundamentalism. a country like iran is a challenge to the eu and russia alike. the eu and russia are both members of the middle east quartet and have a duty to work with the us towards a solution there. we hope that the conditions will soon be created for eu citizens and russians to meet without a visa. i am convinced that unhindered interpersonal contact is the best way to give young russians in particular a real picture of the life, thinking and intentions of europeans in relation to russia. i believe that the conditions for the completion of this agenda are unity at home and the clarity of our message to the outside world. it's a truism, but all too often we've had to experience that we're divided or let ourselves be divided by nuances. the european union must not allow any eu government to believe that it can negotiate more with russia on equal terms than we can achieve with the eu as a whole. as a community of values, we share a common view of the state of the rule of law and human rights in russia and should express it in this way. unfortunately, we had to give the sakharov prize to a russian organization. i thank the presidency for its clear words in this connection. as equally dependent on energy supplies, we need to ensure that the arrangements in the russia-ukraine-eu triangular relationship are designed in such a way that gas pressure does not fall in parts of the eu every winter. in the caucasus, we must jointly press for full access for eu observers. the eu must make its position clear to russia and the us on disarmament and the missile shield. if we can do all this, then russia will take us seriously, and we'll get along well.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. my fellow workers! this year we are not only celebrating the 20th anniversary of the fall of the wall and the peaceful revolution, but 1989 was also the year in which andrei sakharov died, who made a major contribution to the overthrow of the totalitarian eastern bloc system. and andrei sakharov left us with the advice that his country needs understanding and pressure. pressure is on. and i would not translate the word dawlenie today as pressure, but rather as emphatic support, emphatic support wherever russia is on the road to modernisation and wherever approaches to social market economy, democracy and the rule of law are being shown. the russian president medvedev has recently expressed concern about the stagnation and problems in his country and called for support for his reform efforts. we should if we're serious. and this includes russia's integration into international frameworks such as the wto and the energy charter. that is why we must not put up unnecessary obstacles. and russia should realize that on its own, it cannot handle this crisis. but partnership also requires - as václav havel said today - that we tell each other the truth, without makeup. and that is why i say that where elections are rigged, the very notion of directed democracy is beginning to become cynical, and that is why election observation will soon play a major role. wherever critical journalists are murdered, the truth dies too. we cannot achieve change through trade, but we must put our relationship with russia on a solid basis of values.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of points and problems clear, such as the human rights situation. it is also important that we make these points clear, because only then can we have an open and honest discussion. if there is serious discussion in russia at the moment about introducing the death penalty on the american model, then this cannot go uncommented by us. i have two brief points: russia's accession to the wto and my heartfelt request, also to the council and the commission, to give the greatest possible support here. of course, russia must also make its contribution. but we both depend on it, and it would be good for both of us if this development turned out to be positive. the fact that russia is not only seeking to join the wto in a customs union with belarus and kazakhstan is a step in the right direction. the second point is my heartfelt request that we should not lose sight of the development of our cooperation in the fields of science and research and in the field of civil society. we need new impetus for cultural exchanges and exchanges of young people. but not just in one direction, mr gahler, as you said, but in both directions. each young person who participates develops understanding for others and becomes an ambassador for a more positive development of our relations. i would like to see more discussion of these common interests and more emphasis on these aspects.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? thank you, malcolm harbour, and the imco committee, for raising this important issue. as malcolm harbour says, the free movement of services is one of the cornerstones of the internal market. it accounts for 60 to 70% of the eu's economy and employment, and it is growing and will play a very important role in the eu's economic growth. there is still a long way to go to remove barriers to trade and facilitate trade in services and so it is excellent that we now have the services directive which is due to be implemented on 28 december. the commission is ultimately responsible for the member states doing their job and i am sure the commission will come back but i would still like to say a few things on behalf of the presidency based on the question i have been asked by the committee. the first concerns the inventory of regulations and how it has contributed to implementation. this aims to identify and remove obstacles to the freedom of establishment and the free movement of services. the requirements for service activities retained by member states must meet the requirements of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality. this is a major undertaking, but when it is done, the service sector will benefit by reducing the administrative burden on service providers. here, the final report to the commission is due on 28 december. national focal points shall collect information on the rights and requirements of service providers and service recipients in the field of services. they shall provide an opportunity for service providers to apply for authorisation online and to communicate with the authorising authority. of course, this is a tricky thing for the member states to organise. it is based on the fact that we have a more modern system with a large number of elements of e-government. the swedish presidency is holding a ministerial meeting in malmö next week on e-government. here, member states receive support from the commission, and there are many seminars where we can learn from each other, to put user-friendliness in focus. another important issue is the language of the web portals and the possibility of accessing this in a language other than the member states' own languages. it is not a requirement of the directive, but hopefully most member states will have information in several languages at their contact points. this will improve the ability of a service provider to compare different markets and to gain the necessary insight to expand its business. the imco committee asks whether the member states will be able to implement the directive in time, and i hope they will be able to do so. the commission will come back to this, but in fact at the competitiveness council all the member states said that they would be ready in time. political support for this is of course very important. what are the main challenges? the whole directive is of course incredibly comprehensive and it requires a series of measures by the member states. not just legislation, but various measures to facilitate cooperation. these structures, which we hope will be put in place, will make the administration more efficient and modern. but it's gonna take time to get it in place. the inventory of the rules in this vast area and the search for the necessary technical solutions are not easy tasks. the authorities will need to be trained in their new responsibilities, and this will be resource-intensive. the answer to the question of what the main challenges are is therefore that it is, of course, to set up the common contact points and to ensure that they function. finally, parliament wonders how the interest groups were involved. this is an important issue, because of course the involvement of the various interest groups is essential to create an understanding of the services directive, to communicate the benefits to citizens and to businesses but also to get to know their views and needs. this dialogue has been central. many interest groups were already members of reference groups during the negotiation period and these networks have in many cases survived. in many countries, proposals for implementation have been widely circulated in society to capture different knowledge and opinions. finally, madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament for its interest in the process of implementing the services directive. given the very important role played by the european parliament in getting an agreement, it is good that you are monitoring and making sure that we in the member states are doing our job. we agree that a directive that is properly and timely is of course of particular importance. and especially now in the economic crisis, the services directive will be an important tool to get us out of this and to be able to invest again in economic growth and hopefully create jobs.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament for putting forward this timely oral question, particularly also on behalf of my colleague, charlie mccreevy, on the state of the implementation of the services directive. it is a little less than two months before the implementation deadline, and it is a good time to look back on the work that has been done so far and to take stock of where things are today. the services directive is one of the most important initiatives adopted in recent years. it has a great potential to remove barriers to trade in the internal market and to modernise our public administrations and proper implementation becomes even more pressing in the current economic context. we know that very well and the european parliament, and in particular its committee on the internal market and consumer protection, have not only played a key role in making its adoption possible but the commission also particularly appreciated your continued interest in monitoring the work done by the member states to implement the directive. for our part, the commission has delivered on its commitment to facilitate the implementation process, this was already mentioned. we have taken member states’ request for technical assistance seriously and we have deployed unprecedented efforts and resources to support their work. more than 80 bilateral meetings with all the member states were held and expert groups met in brussels over 30 times during the last three years. but the commission cannot carry out the implementation at national level. this is the role of member states, and transposing the services directive has been a challenging task for them. it has been challenging because it involved the carrying out of several large-scale projects, such as the setting-up of ‘points of single contact’ and the review and simplification of legislation relating to services. it has been challenging also because it involved intensive coordination between all levels of the administration, be it national, regional or local level. so where do things stand today? and will member states deliver? just over half of member states seem to be in a position to achieve the implementation of the services directive by the end 2009 deadline or in the beginning of 2010. some member states might be late. this is not entirely satisfactory, in particular for citizens and businesses wanting to make use of their rights in the internal market. although the situation is not unusual compared to other internal-market directives, it gives some reason for concern. but it must also be taken into account that, perhaps more than for any other directive, member states needed to address a huge amount of difficult legal and practical issues. and given this, the result that we hope to achieve by the beginning of next year may actually be considered as quite good. let me now reply in more detail to your question. so, almost all member states have completed the process of ‘screening’ their national legislation. some are still working on it. the extent to which the screening has contributed to an effective transposition of the directive is of course also somewhat difficult to assess at this stage. the transposition deadline has not yet expired, and member states have not yet submitted their legislative changes to the commission. but it is clear that an ambitious and thorough process of screening is crucial to ensure the ‘internal-market-friendliness’ of national legislation in each and every member state. and it is also crucial for the competitiveness of our services sector in general. as regards the points of single contact, it seems clear that most member states will at least have basic, practical, point-of-single-contact solutions in place by the end 2009. these will, again, not be totally perfect, but they should form a solid basis. member states should continue developing and upgrading the points of single contact which, in the long run, should become full-fledged e-government centres. in this context, the commission agrees with the importance of providing additional information and procedures through the points of single contact, such as those related to workers rights and taxation. businesses and consumers need to be aware of the applicable rules. but as you know, this is not mandatory under the directive. we expect, as the points of single contact consolidate and develop, this information will also be provided. indeed, some member states are already planning to do so. as regards the implementation of the directive in the area of social services – to the extent that they are covered by it – this does not seem to have raised particular problems. the directive itself contains mechanisms to ensure the specificities of these services are taken into account. finally, i think it is clear that stakeholders have played a vital role throughout the implementation process. they have followed member states’ efforts closely and have been involved in implementation in different ways, and we will ensure that stakeholders are consulted next year during the evaluation of the results of the implementation. so we need to find a method to ensure that this consultation is targeted and very concrete. finally, many member states have had open consultation on the draft implementing legislation during the legislative process. some stakeholder organisations have even organised regular surveys with their members on the state of implementation. let us say it is important to be realistic and honest at this stage of the process. a lot still remains to be done in the area of implementation, and those member states who are behind schedule need to make extra efforts. i remain convinced, however, that the glass is more than half-full. but we had better keep filling it and quickly.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i am not going to go into detail. what we have just heard from the commission and the council is rather discouraging. europe is in international competition, in a global competition in which european service providers must also position themselves and prevail. if we look at the history of this directive, which was drawn up here in parliament with the very substantial participation of members, it is, in my view, somewhat discouraging to hear that the glass is half full or half empty, as the commissioner has said. i would like to say to you, madam president-in-office, that parliament has not only played a role in the past but also intends to play that role in the future. that is why we in the committee on the internal market decided to put this question to you in good time before the deadline for transposition, in order to check whether you are able to fulfil the commitments you made as member states of the european union, on your own initiative, to transpose the directive by the end of this year, and whether you are able to fulfil this ambition. i can tell you that, at any rate, i still expect the epp group to do everything in its power to ensure that this demand is met in the coming months. we will look at the directive and its implementation from the point of view of european citizens, from the point of view of service providers, from the point of view of workers, and in this context we will examine closely how member states behave towards each other and what transparency - as the chairman has mentioned - there is in this exchange on the elements of the directive and how effectively member states' rules are reviewed for their suitability for the internal market for service providers. the same applies to the scope of the directive. here again, as we have done in the past, we will look closely at the extent to which the european court of justice may interpret the eu treaty in such a way that citizens' rights take precedence and that member states' interests do not always take precedence, as the council sometimes seems to think. secondly, we are very positive about the point you have raised about the electronic processing of cases, but we think it is crucial that service providers can finally handle all procedural matters online in a simple and effective way and that they actually find people with whom they can talk about the matter and the needs in the member states from the people behind these many home pages, or that they simply build chinese walls. ladies and gentlemen, the president is urging me to hurry. i would like to come to the last point. in the debate at that time parliament insisted in particular that the internal market information system should eliminate all the difficulties which the member states' administrations are reasonably encountering in implementing the directive, and i therefore hope, madam president-in-office, that you will make every effort to ensure that this directive can enter into force by 31 december this year.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not thank you for allowing us to discuss this important subject today. i would like to make one thing very clear: we as a parliament have not played a role, but we have ensured that a very positive, good compromise has been found in this directive on services. this compromise is based in particular on the safeguarding of labour and social rights and the special respect and promotion of services of general economic interest. this was the basis for the existence of a service directive. i see some question marks there, and the questions we have asked have not been answered either. it would be very unfortunate if it turned out to be true, as i have heard on several occasions, that there are member states which are using the implementation of the services directive to torpedo the balance we have found as legislators by not fully respecting these rights of workers, as we did in the services directive. it is not just the labour regulations that are being called into question, but also, in some countries, the definitions that are being rewritten or narrowed down. and there are member states which, for vague reasons, do not exclude social services from the scope of the services included in this implementation. the european commission's manual was not helpful in this particular case because it was partly misleading and gave an interpretation which was not in line with what we thought was right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. anything else would be bad. i would also ask the member states to what extent they have involved the stakeholders in particular, and in particular the trade unions and the social services, in the implementation. a question we've been asking, but i haven't heard an answer yet. and i'd like a good answer to that.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the commission's response is not only discouraging, as mr schwab has said, but also very disappointing. we have to know that we have to assume in the implementation that if you say about 50% will meet the schedule, the other 50% are far from ready. i think of my own country, germany, and the individual länder are now implementing this directive. and in my own country, on 2 september, i had the opportunity to attend the first reading on the implementation of the services directive for the land of rhineland-palatinate. you can imagine that it will be impossible to achieve the implementation in time. it should be similar to the other länder. the way in which this is implemented will of course also be decisive for us. when article 13 (2) states that 'the authorisation procedures and formalities shall not be dissuasive, nor shall they unduly hinder or delay the provision of the service', we must take great care to ensure that this does not happen. the equipment of the single points of contact will be decisive. do they have language skills? do they work closely enough with the administrations to be able to implement the requests made to them? we have our great doubts. the committee on budgets should now ask which countries are in the middle and which countries are meeting this 50% and when they intend to achieve it. then you should rather assume that these countries will be given a moratorium or whatever. i am convinced that this directive will not have been implemented in most countries by 1 january 2010, although these countries had more than four years to do so. this is a big problem and very disappointing.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, madam president of the council! we are dealing today with a motion for a resolution on neurodegenerative diseases. in fact, it should become a directive, and next time we should also be discussing a directive on this. the diseases we are treating today - alzheimer's, but also parkinson's has been included in the text - are brain diseases which are a major challenge for europe. the costs are going to be higher in the long run, and there's still a lot of research to be done. unfortunately, there is a lot of duplicate research and bureaucracy in europe. we therefore want to overcome this double-checking, bureaucratization and fragmentation with this motion for a resolution. the gue/ngl group has tabled a motion for the research results to be made publicly available. i like this proposal. unfortunately, it is wrongly worded and i therefore ask for it to be reworded so that this can be better regulated. the european patent system is fundamentally a problem. i would like the commission and the council to take up the issue of european patents in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and make it clear that we need them. the alde group supports this motion for a resolution.
i have to say, madam president, i want to make it very short, too. the need for this has already been expressed in many speeches. it's a disease that affects many people and more and more people. there is an increased need for member states to work together, to pool forces to make an impact. in that sense it is a right and reasonable course. it is a pity that we are having some difficulties in the procedural way, to bring in the role of parliament now. it is regrettable that this has to happen with a resolution at the last minute. but if there is a good result at the end, then that is important and decisive.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution, pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the one-minute explanations under rule 150 of the rules of procedure.
there's been a mix-up in the microphone allocation. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i must have mispronounced your name, and that's how the confusion came about.
i am not going to go into detail. i am not going to make you happy, but we must end the one-minute remarks under rule 150 of the rules of procedure here. article 150 allows us to have this kind of discussion for a maximum of 30 minutes. we have been discussing this for almost 40 minutes, because unfortunately there have been speakers who have not kept to the one minute. i tried to give priority to those who had not spoken in the last two debates, and i hope you felt that it was fairly balanced. we have four more debates to go on tonight and you know that the sitting must be closed at midnight at the latest.
the next item is the report by tanja fajon, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (com (2009) 0366 - c7-0112/2009 - 2009/0104 (cns)) (a7-0042/2009).
i am informed that the presidency of the council was invited but that there were scheduling difficulties and that it cannot be present. but they'll look into it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. twenty years ago my fellow east germans were given freedom of travel. a few years later, milošević arbitrarily jeopardised and then forfeited the freedom of movement for serbia and subsequently for all other countries in the region. how many times have we in this house since the year 2000 in statements and in public debates called for freedom of travel, visa-free travel for the countries of south-eastern europe. we know that the eu as such cannot do this, but national governments must agree. we must reduce the fear in our population. criminals are everywhere, they don't need visas! you're crossing the border without a visa. so we don't have to worry about it. it is about the young generation, who can finally travel where we want them to go, thanks to the visa-free regime. that is why we are pleased that the citizens of macedonia, montenegro and serbia can now finally travel freely again. what a joy! it is also a little sad that albania, bosnia-herzegovina and kosovo have not yet been able to join. but we expect the commission in december to acknowledge the great progress made by albania and also to see that there has been some improvement in bosnia-herzegovina. unfortunately, there are politicians in bosnia-herzegovina who care less about the interests of their citizens, in the certainty that they themselves have visa-free travel. so i think we have to make sure that we can do that next summer. i hope mr barrot will help us with that. but we must not forget kosovo. it can't be the lonely black spot. we have an obligation to help kosovo meet the benchmarks. it can't do it alone. visa-free travel is a profoundly human act. i'm glad we were all able to do that. thank you for this opportunity, mr. barrot.
i have to say, madam president, i think we are on the right track with the balkan countries. we have a rapprochement through visa facilitation, and this serves stability, but it is also a sign of appreciation for the efforts made. i also think it is good that we have a clear regulation and that the requirements necessary for this are respected. i would also like to thank my colleague, mrs corazza bildt, for her efforts. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left to the mercy of the council, but that it is not left to the mercy of the council. political signals do not belong in an asterisk, in an annex to a european directive or regulation, but must be formulated.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the subject we are discussing here tonight has been on the agenda of the european parliament on several occasions. it is well known that the commission's decision to grant aid is based on the conditions laid down by the international monetary fund. it's been a few times. the ep has repeatedly asked the commission to take action on this matter. in november 2008, the ep asked the commission to present an analysis of the impact of the behaviour of banks that had transferred their assets from the newly acceded member states. the ep reiterated this demand on 24 april this year. the ep also asked to be informed of the detailed memoranda of understanding concluded between the commission and the member states receiving aid, which set out the conditions for the aid. as far as i know, these questions have not been answered to date. the first question i would like to ask is whether it is true that these questions have not been answered so far. if that is true, then my second question is: why have these questions not been answered so far? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, my group, the gue/ngl group, considers that the ‘made in’ origin marking of products which come from outside the eu is an urgent necessity for the european union. in a largely globalised and deregulated world, it is absolutely necessary to enable consumers to know where a product comes from and what they are buying. i think this is an area where citizens and consumers really understand what europe is, and how europe can contribute to international trade and the world outside. i agree with my colleagues that we should adopt the 2005 approach to origin marking. in our view that is the very minimum that should be ensured for the european consumers and citizens. it could also favour the small and medium-sized industries of europe. we call on the commission and on the council to submit this quickly for consideration by the european parliament. among other things it is a matter of a coherent approach to policy-making, and i think that in this area international trade can also contribute to international peace.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. i would like to make four comments on the report. firstly, the ombudsman is an indispensable part of a democratic and above all citizen-friendly european union. secondly, after initial irritations, the cooperation between the committee on petitions and the ombudsman can be described as excellent. thirdly, if you will, the committee on petitions and the ombudsman are together the central point of reference for a europe which is friendly to citizens. fourthly, as a member of the committee on petitions, i look forward to continuing the critical dialogue with the citizens of the european union, especially now that the new treaty has entered into force. the european union is there for its citizens, not the other way round. and we must work together to ensure that it remains so and is improved.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. i would like to say on behalf of the green group that we strongly support the mandate of alain lamassoure, the head of the committee on budgets. we are confident that he will lead the negotiations in the transitional period in which we are now, with great confidence and strength. we know that in the transition from the treaty of nice to the treaty of lisbon - which we all expected and need - we need clear rules to make europe more democratic and more transparent. the committee on budgets, together with the council, is one of the bodies responsible for drawing up the european budget, and we are clearly saying to the council: we will preserve and strengthen our parliamentary rights. we will not allow anything to be cut, even with the negotiations of mr lamassoure, because we are quite certain that there must be no shift of weight to the council. i would remind you that when it comes to the new budgets for the next few years, it is absolutely essential that the european budget be drawn up in a truly european spirit between the member states and the european parliament. only then can we make the european union fit for the future. i would also like to remind you that, as regards financial regulation, namely how the money is distributed to the european countries and within the countries, it must of course be safe from abuse. there must be no scandals, no fraud, but financial regulations must be made simpler and more transparent so that our european programmes do not cause problems on the ground but actually reach people. we should be shaping our european budgetary policy in the coming years in this spirit.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. i expressly welcome - also in my capacity as rapporteur on multiannual financial planning - the report by our committee chairman, mr alain lamassoure, because it also provides the necessary bridge, in the sense of legal certainty, until we have reached agreement on the necessary adjustment of the interinstitutional agreement and on the further technical procedures which we have to clarify under the treaty. i would like to point out that this resolution also makes it clear that for future negotiations we will have the whole package together, from the question of adjusting the iia to the question of how we deal with the budgetary aspects of the future foreign service, for example. in this context, and in view of the agreement reached earlier, i also believe that the assessment of the functioning of the existing interinstitutional agreement, both technically and budgetarily, which is to be carried out, should be properly integrated into this process of the overall package of measures to implement the lisbon treaty. and this does not only include the question of technique and procedures, but also the examination of the necessary flexibility and room for manoeuvre in the budget, if we are honest about the political implementation of the lisbon treaty in the budgetary field.
in writing. - i generally regard visa exemptions or facilitations as positive steps towards people living together and improving cooperation between countries. it is particularly important for the western balkans that all countries in the region be granted such a perspective. i therefore expressly welcome the inclusion of bosnia-herzegovina and albania in the arrangements. the commission is also proposing to extend the visa exemption to the citizens of the western balkans. this would be the case if only bosnian serbs and croats could enjoy visa-free travel, but not the bosnian muslim majority. i am also in favour of medium-term solutions with kosovo. i would like to make it clear that kosovo is an integral part of serbia and has no status under international law. this does not relieve us of our duty to consider how this state and its citizens should be treated in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, i strongly oppose the deportations of roma and other minorities to kosovo by the federal republic of germany. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal immigration of refugees. many of them have lived in germany for more than 10 years, finding refuge there from displacement, persecution and violence. deportations are also beginning in austria, belgium, hungary and france. i am speaking out against these deportations because the situation of minorities, especially roma, in kosovo is intolerable. they are 100 per cent unemployed and kosovo has no means of providing decent housing for these people. a life in camps or in lead-infested mitrovica is the prospect. finally, i would like to appeal to germany's historical responsibility in respect of the victims of the second world war, the roma and sinti, who were persecuted and systematically murdered. the commission is also responsible for this history ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it was a lot of hard work in two rounds, if you will, but the result can be seen. parliament can be proud of that. i would also like to thank mrs angelika niebler, who unfortunately cannot be here today, and in particular the rapporteurs pilar del castillo vera, malcolm harbour and catherine trautmann, and all those who have helped to achieve a compromise. it was really difficult, sometimes a great effort on the part of individuals - and also on the part of political groups - but in the end everyone agreed. the telecommunications sector is a sector of major importance for economic development, a major job-creator. in 2007 alone, some eur 300 billion was spent on this. this means that this sector is getting a new legal framework, and this is also of great importance for economic development in the european union. europe faces major challenges: investing in and re-developing high-performance broadband networks. here is the willingness of the companies, and here we want to open. an important decision has been made here. last but not least, we want to make the radio spectrum policy more flexible, the digital dividend should be used. here again, an essential prerequisite has been created. and in conclusion, we have had to invest a lot of work because some of us were not aware of the problem at the beginning, how to deal with the freedom of the internet, how to support civil rights on the internet more. we have now secured the protection of the citizen to a very different degree than many of us had imagined at the beginning, because the process has continued. the eu member states' measures concerning access to or use of services offered through electronic communications networks must not in any way infringe fundamental rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the person must have a right to be heard and to be able to challenge the decision in court. this is a change that was not seen at the beginning. i hope that everyone can agree with me. thank you very much.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the internet is a major part of the lives of young people in particular, and digitisation and electronic communications are advancing. this makes easy access to the internet and the wealth of information it provides a necessity for many. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internet is not used for commercial purposes. i therefore particularly and explicitly welcome the steps taken so far, because we are on the right track towards more competition and more intensive access to essential information. what is lacking at the moment can certainly be achieved in the future.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i can only agree with the previous speakers that it would be consistent for the council to re-submit its proposals on europol to the european parliament on the basis of the treaty of lisbon. it is right and necessary that judicial and police cooperation in europe be discussed and co-decided by the european parliament. only in this way can europol's work be given a sufficient legitimacy. the joint and unanimous rejection by the european parliament of the provisions for europol's work proposed by the council is a clear signal that the changes in the treaty must now also be applied. there is every reason for that. for too long, the shaping of europe's internal and security policy has been an exclusively executive event, taking place behind closed doors. the most recent counterterrorism measures, after 11 september 2001, adopted numerous security packages, the necessity, effectiveness and proportionality of which were often not thoroughly examined, let alone debated. the political isolation of the european union's third pillar has allowed governments to enforce highly controversial interferences with the fundamental rights of their citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. while cooperation between security authorities is growing worldwide, there has been no international agreement on minimum standards for fundamental rights and legal protection. this gap between state powers and civil rights is becoming more apparent, particularly in the exchange of personal information between the eu and third countries. the european security agencies such as europol, eurojust and frontex, as well as the schengen, eurodac and customs and visa information systems, are accumulating ever-increasing amounts of data on individuals, and the linking and analysis of these data for various purposes is progressing rapidly. within europe itself, it is becoming increasingly unclear who is allowed to collect, possess, analyse or disseminate what data and under what conditions. the legal protection of individuals is also often lagging behind the principles that have been in force up to now. but what if all this data is only passed on to third countries? it is not just countries like norway or switzerland, but also the usa, russia, morocco and china. i wonder who can guarantee equal protection against abuse and state arbitrariness there? no, this parliament has the right and the duty to initiate a process with the new treaty basis, in which the fundamental rights of the citizens of europe must be fully respected, also in international cooperation in the fight against crime and terrorism. this creation of common minimum standards - particularly in the area of personal data protection - must take place before we as the european union conclude further agreements on data exchange with third countries. this applies both to europol's information and to swift bank details and air passenger data exchanged with the us authorities. clear data protection standards, a comprehensive proportionality test and effective legal protection for citizens are essential prerequisites for any further action. i am glad that we are in such a cross-party agreement on the europol package and i see this as a good sign for the forthcoming debate on comprehensive protection of fundamental rights in europe. and that is exactly what the citizens expect from us now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can only join simon busuttil in congratulating mr barrot on the work he has done. he certainly did not take on a very simple dossier and was very often in the wind, but believe me, mr vice-president, in the alde group you would have had an excellent umbrella to use in such a situation. nevertheless, a lot has been said about europol, and i do not think i need to repeat what my colleagues have said, namely that it seems astonishing that we should be sending this through parliament before the 30th, or the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it is therefore a natural reaction for parliament to reject these proposals. it is also a pity that the council cannot be here to honour us with its presence and to take these comments with it. i'm sure they'll be taken over. i would like to say, particularly in relation to the kirkhope report on forensic laboratories and standards, that we often have to consider whether we should not start with the details, namely what data is being transmitted and how, and whether they are actually comparable, particularly in the case of forensic laboratories. if dna data is obtained and transmitted differently and the matching is not correct, the people involved are more harmed than helped. maybe you should take that thought with you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. we should not discuss today's debate, and in particular the decisions that will be taken as a result of it, in a formalistic way, but in a political way. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection board and the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the essence of the matter is quite different: how seriously the political actors take the lisbon treaty, the rights of parliament and the citizen, and the trusting cooperation between the council and parliament. i will give three examples: the lisbon treaty describes the high representative as a strong voice for europe, and it is very regrettable that member states have obviously included other criteria in this. the swift agreement, which is highly controversial in many respects, could be carefully reviewed by the european parliament from next monday. instead, it should be swiftly agreed and signed with the united states only a few hours before. we are seeing the same thing today with the issues before us. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). we wonder why, because on other subjects it was quite possible to submit new proposals. the council and the commission are wasting their chance to send a clear signal to the people of europe, a signal for the committed implementation of the treaty, for a democratic europe of the people. we have only one chance as a parliament: we must reject these proposals because we want a broad public debate, because we want to implement and use our strengthened rights in the interests of citizens now and not in the near or distant future.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to begin by thanking the commission for the work it has done on europol and to say again that this is not about hindering the process of transforming europol into an eu agency. but it is of course a fundamental question of what powers are granted in the relation between the state and the citizen, and it is a highly sensitive question which should be discussed here in parliament. this is a parliamentary decision in a democracy which must be discussed at length and, in the end, legitimized. i find it very worrying that - as sophia in the field has already said - the council is not even here to listen to this criticism, which i consider to be fundamental in a democracy. i hope that the government will finally face up to parliament's criticism of the work done so far in the field of security policy. we need a european parliamentary debate on the rights of citizens on the one hand, but also on the effectiveness of security policy, in which the european parliament and national parliaments must be more closely involved. i therefore thank the rapporteurs for having given this sign here together and hope that it has been made unequivocally clear and that the council will act accordingly.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. it is a rather unheated subject, in fact, that we can talk about now. it is about adapting information technology in the customs sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud and other forms of crime, including the introduction of a new system of customs checks. we have been able to cooperate very well with the swedish presidency, and i would like to thank it for its support and guidance throughout the procedure - the dossier is not entirely new. we have shown our cooperation by adopting substantial amendments which the council had already adopted and voted in committee. i also expect that we will vote in favour of it this week. the only thing parliament does not agree with is the extension of the powers enjoyed by europol in this area. this is certainly not reflected in all the groups in this house, but it is reflected in the final result of the vote on the report on information technologies in the customs field. this is somewhat in line with the discussion that took place earlier, but our intention was different, namely to send a signal that after we decided not so long ago to give europol a mandate to become an agency competencies are now being extended or expanded in many small areas. it is also essential to respect the dignity and the mission of europol if this is enshrined in a mandate, as we have decided. it is also a matter of transparency, so that not only we but above all the citizens for whom we make policy know what europol is allowed to do and what it is not allowed to do. transparency is an elementary element in any design of criminal or police authorities in the member states and this must be the same at european level. otherwise there is not much to say, and although one tends to over-extend one's speaking time, i can keep it shorter in this case. i thank the presidency and the other members for the good cooperation and i am sure that we will be able to vote on the report successfully this week.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. it is an exciting dossier, as we can see from the many reports. nevertheless, i should like to take this opportunity to comment briefly on what commissioner kallas has said, namely the commission's refusal to accept the amendments on europol. i understand very well the commission's motivation, including the desire for consistency. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but i am saying that it has not been consulted on the matter. if we are faced with the task of achieving the highest possible standards of protection for the data of our citizens, it is not very helpful - perhaps this is something that the commission would like to think about in the future despite the rejection - if we have fragmented regulations in many individual files concerning the competence of europol, namely when what data can be processed with what powers and to whom it can be transferred. it is no longer clear which data can be used by europol and in what way. it would be more sensible if this were to be regulated once in the europol mandate for a large number of cases as a whole, rather than always making legislation on a case-by-case basis. this would be more transparent for the public and certainly more helpful for the work of europol. otherwise, i have nothing more to add. perhaps i should mention one point that has been raised, namely the different access powers of eurojust and europol. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give its opinion on the case before the court of justice. but if we have a justice commissioner in the future, we can also deal with this at european level.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by vital moreira on behalf of the committee on international trade on macro-financial assistance to georgia (com (2009) 0523 - c7-0269/2009 - 2009/0147 (cns)) (a7-0060/2009) and the report by vital moreira on behalf of the committee on international trade on macro-financial assistance to armenia (com (2009) 0531 - c7-0268/2009 - 2009/0150 (cns)) (a7-0059/2009) and the report by miloslav ransdorf on behalf of the committee on international trade on macro-financial assistance to serbia (com (2009) 0513 - c7-0270/2009 - 2009/0145 (cns)) (a7-0061/2009) and the report by iuliu winkler on behalf of the committee on international trade on macro-financial assistance to bosnia and herzegovina (com (2009) 0677-067) (cns) (a6-0067/2009)).
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am not going to go into detail. this parliament is fast, it does its homework, it is capable of action! it is good to emphasize that at this point. it has taken seven years for the lisbon treaty to enter into force. it is only a matter of a few weeks for us - because parliament has prepared for a long time and intensively - before the new rules of procedure are adopted on this basis, so that we can start working on the new rules of procedure immediately after the treaty enters into force. rules of procedure should be adopted by broad consensus. we have therefore confined ourselves to those amendments which are directly related to the entry into force of the new treaty. other amendments require more detailed consideration. there will be plenty of time for that in this house. but what is urgent, we should do without delay. it seems to me important that these amendments contain new rules on simplified and also on ordinary amendments to the treaties. i think it is important that we support the amendments on improved cooperation with the national parliaments. we would like to go further in other areas, for example, in relation to our representation in cosac, but we can discuss this at a later date. i am glad to see the high degree of agreement and i would like to thank the rapporteurs in particular.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate mr martin on the matters which need to be regulated, which are in this report and on which we have also reached agreement. but we must also say that the european parliament has become a fully equal democratic parliament with the treaty of lisbon. it is also time for parliament to remember who the bearers of this parliament are: the individual member, the committees and the political groups! i see too many references to decisions being taken by the conference of presidents and the bureau. i see too many references to the fact that we do not want the committees to cooperate directly with the committees of the national parliaments on their own responsibility, but rather that this should be done through many bureaucracies. i see that when the chairmen of the committees of the national parliaments meet, it is not the chairmen of the european parliament's committees who go there, but vice-presidents. as regards the rights of members, when a committee proposes a decision to be taken in plenary, it is not for parliament's services or other bodies to judge whether it is right or wrong. that is for the colleagues to decide. if the motions are bad, they won't get a majority here. obviously, there is a fear that members of parliament will have to make decisions that are harmful to them, and that is why members should be protected from themselves. i cannot see any other way of looking at the proposals which obviously restrict the rights of parliament, of individual members. i feel like the empire is going to strike back.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr president of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament has been a driving force in the climate debate in recent years, and we also have a high stake in the eu's climate action package. the resolution we are presenting today has all the elements for an ambitious agreement in copenhagen. what we are proposing is also realistic. it is both ambitious and realistic, and we hope that the council and the commission will join us in this conference in lobbying together to get other partners on board. the eu has taken the lead and we want to keep it that way in copenhagen. that's why we have to stick to our pledge to reduce co2 emissions by 30% by 2020. science tells us, at the upper end, between 25 percent and 40 percent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know that without funding, global climate change is not possible. the parliament, unlike the council, has given concrete figures. the global framework is 100 billion euros. europe has to take about a third. why don't we say it's 30 billion euros in the year 2020? parliament is committed to this and i hope that the council and the commission will also make a concrete commitment in two weeks' time. the kick-start has already been mentioned by mrs wortmann-kool. we need 5 to 7 billion euros now. when i see how much money we've raised to deal with the banking crisis, it's peanuts to deal with the climate crisis, where we don't get a second chance. once the climate is broken, it's broken, and we're not going to be able to fix it. so it must be worth the effort. i also see that some countries are moving, but others are not. it cannot be that the two biggest polluters of the climate, the united states and china, are playing a game of ping-pong, each pointing to the other and showing hesitation. this is irresponsible, and i hope that the united states in particular will show leadership in copenhagen, with concrete data on reducing its own greenhouse gas emissions and also a share of the funding. without these two countries and without india, there will be no agreement. we are once again emphasizing forestry policy - deforestation is a major factor - and air and sea transport. if the railways are fully auctioned and have to pay, then it is not clear why aviation and shipping have privileges. finally, parliament is in the eu pavilion for the first time. this is a new beginning and i hope we can also be part of the briefings between the council and the commission, because with the lisbon treaty we are co-legislators of the copenhagen convention.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i must say that i really appreciate the broad support that the eu approach has from virtually all parts of this parliament. it means, has meant and will mean a great deal for the strength of the eu now in copenhagen and also in the very important climate work that lies ahead of us thereafter. i would also like to say to commissioner stavros dimas that i very much appreciated what you said today. the commission as such has played a crucial role as the backbone of the eu's climate policy, and not least stavros dimas has personally played a crucial role in the commission adopting the stance it has taken. there have been times when not all member states have been as strong as they are today, and in the crucial moments the commissioner has always stood very straight. i very much appreciate that and i would like to have said that in this house. i would like to say to jo leinen, as leader of the socialist group and also as chairman of the committee, that i very much look forward to working with parliament in copenhagen as well. i am convinced that parliament can play a very important role also on the ground in reaching out to representatives of other countries. i would like to say to all those who have raised the question of funding in this debate - jo leinen, satu hassi, bairbre de brún and others - that the concrete figures are of course also important. this is why the eu has been the group of countries which has so far provided the most far-reaching and concrete figures. let me also say about rapid action - action to stop deforestation and action to take money from climate-destroying aviation and shipping to important action in not least the poorest eu countries - that they must deliver results now. the practical way has been sought. the eu has shown it. in fact, we are already halfway to our 2020 target of 20%. we have completed one third of what we have to do to also reach the 30 per cent target. that is why we are now also pushing for other parties to raise their bids in the final round, while also saying 'look at us, we have shown a practical way to really reduce emissions'. some say, "do 10 more percent". i would very much like to do that, but it requires a global agreement. otherwise, those 10 percentage points of additional eu action would be eaten up by just two years of emissions increases in china, and we still haven't saved the climate. that is why the global agreement is so important and why the important role of parliament is so great, because this is an important political foundation to build on.
member of the commission. − mr president, after what you said i did not expect you to give me the floor, but i will take this opportunity to say two words about the main argument that was put forward for the 30% target. of course i agree with mr ouzký that we need a global agreement, meaning all the countries of the world participating in a comprehensive agreement and all sectors of the economy to participate in the reductions. and of course this must be science-based. in order to have such a global agreement, in order to persuade other countries to come forward, we have to keep pressing by our example, an example which has its moral importance. the moral leadership of europe is important, but it also acts as an example by showing that green business is very important for our competitiveness. in yesterday’s financial times there were reports about how european businesses – including very important corporations in the european union – are gaining from going green and actually by 2020 foresee that their green business will surpass all the other business. so we have these two ways of pressing other countries to come forward with ambitious commitments and agree in a legally binding agreement. for the 30% reduction, i have to add the following. first of all, it is in accordance with what science is telling us to do, so it will be sincere on our part to go along with what science is telling us. secondly, it is cheaper today, much cheaper than when we were discussing our climate and energy package: it is cheaper by about 30-40% now to achieve this target. thirdly, it is not just going to give us what andreas carlgren said previously, a lever to persuade the others, but also and most important will be the pressure by example; public opinion around the world will appreciate what the european union is doing. it will also, as i heard a lady colleague here say, be very important for our technologies. of course, because it will provide a better price for carbon, which is very low today, and in this way it will be an important incentive for eco-innovation and for development and deployment of new technologies. another aspect which is very important is that the european union is in a privileged position because we already have the legislation you voted which provides the european union and the member states with the means and measures to achieve the higher target by just upgrading certain of the caps we have in our legislation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to comment on what stavros dimas said. of course we need a binding treaty, once for all on the whole question of climate protection, but also in europe for our european industry. we have not only green industry, but we also have industry in other sectors, and we must also think about their competitiveness outside europe. the industry needs planning certainty, and europe is very much in the forefront of this. it was the right thing to do and i was very much in favour of it. but now we must also ensure in copenhagen that the good results of last year are also transferred to the copenhagen level. we must clearly commit ourselves to a global carbon budget. this has already been done, but now the question is to actually apply this to countries and continents. and when we've done that, which won't be easy, then ets needs to be developed further. if this is a purely european story, it's gonna be tight. and that is why i can only ask stavros dimas and the president of the council to be very, very committed to this export. we have identified a second problem, which has already been raised today, namely deforestation. in borneo, jo leinen, twice as much land is burned off every year as the entire saarland. this is a disaster! 8% of the world's co2 is released there, so we can treat our industry as we wish, but it cannot afford it. and i don't want her to do it. we need to develop a completely different focus. i'm very surprised about the finances, it's a competition of numbers. it's important to me that the barrel we put our money in has a bottom, and i'm not sure that's the case. please, mr commissioner, calm me down. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. europe has been serious, and the seriousness - also of the commission and the council, i would like to say this explicitly once again - is our weight, and we should continue to work on this weight.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the effects of climate change are visible in many parts of the world. recent calculations suggest a rise in global temperature of up to 4°c by 2060, and up to 10°c in the arctic. the much faster melting of the arctic ice is mainly due to soot emissions from europe, which are carried there by the winds. the rich industrialised countries in the eu are now obliged to provide financial support to poorer countries to enable them to take immediate action against the effects of climate change. 100 billion dollars will be needed annually from 2010 to 2050, 30 billion dollars a year is not too much for the eu. and the transfer of technology must not be tied to patents, otherwise part of the money will flow back to the corporations in the industrialized countries. the eu has an obligation to take the lead at the copenhagen climate conference.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. we have also had different opinions here in the context of the climate debates on the cause and effect of this climate change. i don't want to pursue that now. but some of my colleagues who have pointed this out are right: there are also new voices in science, and i would like to see a fair debate on these voices. secondly, there is a clear position in parliament for this copenhagen summit. there is a clear mandate to be achieved now. and there is a mandate for everyone in this parliament to look after the welfare of the people in the european union in all its facets. we must be careful in these debates not to see one project as the only political project that is important to us. i would therefore sometimes like to see us, in what we want to achieve in copenhagen, not indulge in conjuring tricks or in what some colleagues have just called a competition of numbers, but look at what we can achieve concretely and effectively. what can we do wisely? what are the implications for industry in europe? we have to consider that. it is not the only criterion, but it is one, and that is why i would like us to try to reach agreements which are really as concrete as possible. that means being fair and involving the other industrialized countries so that it is not just a european project. a colleague just said that we are contributing 10%. the rest of the world, the emerging economies, the developing countries, they have to do their part. if we do not reach specific definitions in copenhagen, i would prefer that we then reach a political consensus and give orders, and then come to very concrete agreements in the months to come. we should not be running away to some formulaic compromise in copenhagen, pretending that this is a result and then going into a 30 per cent automaticity. so realism and concrete action, then you probably get further in the matter.
i have to say, madam president, the european climate policy should say goodbye to daydreaming and take account of international realities. first, kyoto has failed. a lot of symbolism, but no emissions cuts. secondly, it is clear from copenhagen that the world's major powers are not prepared to accept binding reduction targets. thirdly, policy should take account of the emerging debate in science. the same scientists who two years ago endorsed the conclusions of the ipcc panel are now talking about natural influences on climate, which the ipcc categorically ruled out two years ago. we should know how much we can be sure about what affects climate change when we make policy decisions. so i'm calling for a change in strategy: first, we should adapt to unavoidable climate change, and second, we should abandon the ideological carbon debate and seek international allies to accelerate the exploration of new energy sources and clean technologies.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. this applies to industrial production as much as to energy production, but also, and especially, to transport. and many modes of transport are also global players. if they are to be competitive, we must also have equal opportunities for all those involved. this means that climate protection costs money too! we are indeed the frontrunners in europe in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transport. i would simply remind you that we have also agreed together in this house that we want to include aviation, but also shipping, in emissions trading in a special way. the railways have been mentioned. the environmental contribution of electricity generation is certainly included in the co2 reduction, road transport is included in the different ways of charging a toll. we also have to meet the technical requirements of the european union for catalytic converters with stricter euro standards - euro 4 and euro 5. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so far, what has happened to icao in the air transport sector has been very fruitless. the activities here must be further developed. it will be very important that this is also discussed at the copenhagen conference, and the same applies to shipping, which is of course also very environmentally friendly in terms of specific energy consumption per tonne and per kilometre. but we must also agree on common concepts with the imo.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to encourage the negotiators for copenhagen in particular to fight for success here. the ambitious targets are good, and ultimately the efforts we make today to achieve them are also a contribution to tomorrow, in terms of the consequences and the future damage in terms of migration, damage to coastal areas or perhaps in the form that stable regions become more unstable as a result of climate change. we should be examples too. but if other countries, and particularly very large countries, do not join, we should do so only in a proportionate way. in this respect, it has already been pointed out that our farms are already somewhat burdened. i would like to make one more point. we are also fighting for the credibility of the eu as a whole, which is also an argument for our young generation that the eu is necessary.
i would remind the honourable members that the blue card system created by the parliamentary reform working party does not apply to the commission and the council, but to debates with members. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a motion for a resolution to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote on this will take place tomorrow.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the regulation on statistics on plant protection products completes the legislative package on european plant protection policy and allows it to enter into force. in order to minimise the risks to humans and the environment from the use of plant protection products, we need harmonised risk indicators based on comparable and reliable data from all member states. this is what will now be possible. however, the collection of these data must not lead to more bureaucracy and thus to more burdens for our farmers and administrations. where possible, existing data should be used and new surveys should be avoided. it will be up to us to ensure that the implementation of the regulation is monitored with the least possible bureaucratic effort. i would also have liked to have kept the wording 'plant protection products' which was originally used in the regulation. the term pesticide is used in a negative sense in the german language and generally expresses the incorrect use of plant protection products. unfortunately, the regulation now contributes to this misinterpretation.
in writing. − on 9 november 2009 the report on the request for the defence of the immunity and privileges of tobias pflüger (a7-0054/2009) was voted and adopted in the committee on legal affairs (juri) in the european parliament. this report is based on incorrect facts. the central point is that the report cites a judgment at first instance which has been repealed. the judgment is invalid, because the regional court in munich http://dict.leo.org/ende?lp=ende&p=5ty9aa&search=dismiss" ed http://dict.leo.org/ende?lp=ende&p=5ty9aa&search=an" http://dict.leo.org/ende?lp=ende&p=5ty9aa&search=action" against tobias pflüger on 21 july 2009 in the second and final instance. a conviction was not made. for this reason all reproaches are invalid. it is politically unacceptable that this report, which contains incorrect facts, was voted in plenary today (24 november 2009). we have tried to get this incomplete and therefore incorrect report taken from the agenda, unfortunately without success. this kind of proceeding by the european parliament creates the impression of supporting the persecution of politically active persons, in this case the munich ii public prosecution service against a former member of the european parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. i would like to ask you whether there have been any difficulties in the past with the bulgarian government under sergei stanishev or with my colleague, iwailo kalfin, as foreign minister of bulgaria. did you have any reason to doubt the democratic legitimacy, the loyalty of these colleagues to the institutions of the european union? if not, how do you assess the statements by the incumbent bulgarian prime minister borisov that the socialist party should have been banned? they are the delegates of the socialist party congress. they are a gang of thugs and naughty people. thirdly, the statement last week: 'anyone who hates the socialists in bulgaria must be with us.' how do you assess this attitude of a member of the european council?
i understand that you do not want to interfere in the internal politics of bulgaria. i can understand that. can i take your answer to mean that you do not think that the party of mr stanishev, who is the chairman of the bulgarian socialist party and to whom you have personally expressed your high regard for his work, should be banned?
president of the commission. − i have good news for mr kamiński: today, at the meeting of the commission here in strasbourg, we adopted a commission working paper launching the consultation on what i call the ‘european 2020’, the successor to the lisbon strategy, which is of course for consultation with parliament and with european governments and societies at large. there is great emphasis in the working paper on the need to deepen the internal market, and i have even asked mario monti, a well-known european figure, to send me a report on the ways in which we can address the missing links in the internal market. i hope that the first draft of this report is ready before the european council in march at which, by the way, the spanish presidency of the council is also keen to contribute and lend urgency to these developments. development of the internal market is one of the ways we can find new sources of growth to respond to the challenges of competitiveness from other parts of the world.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the good thing about the special summit was that a gender balance was achieved. we want to honor that. i would also like to add that we will continue to support you in your efforts to maintain this gender balance. we are now faced with two new flags of the european union, which, as everyone says, have to grow up to their responsibilities. that is true forever and ever. then there's talk of lightweights and heavyweights. the way i see it, today's lightweights are tomorrow's heavyweights, and vice versa. some heavyweights today will be lightweights tomorrow. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are particularly concerned about the social implications. in europe, tens of millions of people are affected by unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. the number of victims of the crisis is exploding. in the third world, the consequences are even worse. are you prepared, mr barroso, to learn from the misguided development of market-oriented policies together with the new commission? are you prepared to initiate a much-needed policy shift that puts people before profit and social interests before competitive interests?
you were just saying that you have now opened the consultations for the post-lisbon process. the post-lisbon process will then be overseen by the new collective of commissioners. there is a lot of anger about the late opening of the consultation. and there is a great fear that it is only a formality and that the results of this consultation will not really be seriously incorporated into the post-lisbon process. what is your proposal, and how can all stakeholders and a thorough analysis of the consultation process be incorporated into this process and into the commission's documents? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
pt commission. - (fr) mr lópez aguilar, on the second question, we do want to involve parliament closely, and that is why it will be one of the priorities of the next commission, once it is properly constituted, because parliament will have increased decisionmaking powers in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as for immigration issues, there's a part that's a security part. for example, the frontex agency must be placed under the responsibility of the commissioner for home affairs. there is no point in putting her under the responsibility of another commissioner. but the inclusion part, the integration part, my idea is to put it under the responsibility of the commissioner for social affairs. because, just like mr lópez aguilar, i think we should not take a security perspective on immigration. there is a part that is about fighting illegal immigration, fighting illegal trafficking networks. frontex does that. it must be the responsibility of the commissioner who deals with these matters. but there is the whole immigration as integration/inclusion part that i will put under the authority of the commissioner for social affairs, because it is a social issue of inclusion.
the european council expressed the hope that an agreement on the structure of the european external action service could be reached by the end of april. the commission must give its consent to these proposals, and i would like to ask you, mr president, will the commission, before giving its consent to such proposals, make appropriate proposals and also bring them to the negotiations, namely to adjust the multiannual financial planning, to adjust the interinstitutional budgetary agreement and - if there are transfers of responsibility for foreign policy programmes - also to adjust and renegotiate these programmes which are already under co-decision today? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. how will the commission carry out these tasks with parliament in the coming months?
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? mr president of the committee on budgets, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament! the european council of 10 and 11 december will adopt a new five-year programme for the area of freedom, security and justice. the programme will succeed the current hague programme of 2004. the new programme was preceded by a long preparatory process, which began over two years ago with the so-called 'future groups'. the programme will build on the commission's communication but also on the many comments made by national parliaments, civil society and various eu bodies and agencies during the process. the programme is also, of course, the result of intensive contacts and detailed negotiations with the member states of the european union, but also with the european parliament. the european parliament's approach to future cooperation is important, not least in view of the enhanced role conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon. building on the previous work programmes, the tampere and the hague programmes, the eu has made significant progress in the area of freedom, security and justice. but europe still faces challenges that we must address together at european level. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon gives us new opportunities to do so, and the new multiannual work programme, the stockholm programme, will therefore be based on the new opportunities offered by the treaty of lisbon. the vision of the stockholm programme is a safer and more open europe, where the rights of individuals are protected. the needs of citizens, of individuals, will be more clearly the starting point for future cooperation in this field. we are working on behalf of our citizens, and future eu cooperation must be of interest to our citizens. it should therefore be based on real problems, ask relevant questions and focus on concrete actions that add value to people's everyday lives. future cooperation in this area will also be based on a better balance between actions aimed at creating a safe and secure europe and those aimed at protecting the rights of the individual. from a citizen's perspective, law enforcement is important. citizens expect eu cooperation to facilitate efforts to tackle crossborder crime, but they also expect freedom and justice. as i have stressed before in the european parliament, measures to increase security and measures to ensure the rule of law and the rights of individuals must go hand in hand, and this is of course also possible. the challenges in combating crossborder crime are considerable. the trafficking of drugs, human trafficking and terrorism are a reality on our continent, while new forms of crime have emerged, for example, thanks to the internet. we cannot allow national or jurisdictional boundaries to prevent law enforcement agencies from carrying out their work effectively. crossborder law enforcement cooperation has developed, but we still have more to do to achieve effective european police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. we need common solutions to common problems. a well-developed police cooperation, an effective exchange of information and experience and well-developed working methods are essential to tackle these problems. an essential part of law enforcement is, of course, the efficient and appropriate exchange of information. in some cases, the exchange of information should be standardised, adapted to the needs of the individual and made more efficient at european level. at the same time, it is essential to ensure that the exchange of information properly meets the basic data protection and privacy requirements that we have to set and that no more information is collected and stored than is necessary to fulfil the purpose. we will create a secure europe where crossborder crime is effectively tackled while respecting personal privacy. it is entirely possible and entirely necessary to do both. it's about balancing the right bets. the principle of mutual recognition shall remain a fundamental principle of judicial cooperation. the willingness of member states to recognise and enforce judgments and decisions of other states is dependent on mutual trust in the judicial systems. it is also a matter of trust between our national authorities and of citizens' confidence in the measures decided upon. one way to increase trust is to increase knowledge of each other's legal systems. this may include training, exchange programmes, strengthening of existing networks and well-developed evaluation mechanisms. but perhaps the most important confidence-building measure is to guarantee certain minimum rights wherever one is in the union. it is about simple things like finding out in a language you understand what you are accused of and what rights you have as a suspect or victim in a legal process. it is very gratifying that we have been able to agree in the council on a roadmap for the protection and progressive implementation of the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons. it is desirable that the roadmap should be made part of the stockholm programme and i believe that it will be. the stockholm programme should also have a clear victim perspective. citizens who are victims of crime in their own country or in another member state should receive relevant information in a language they understand and be offered appropriate support, information and protection before, during and after the criminal proceedings. in addition, victims should also be offered adequate compensation for the harm caused to them. finally, i would like to say a few words about the civil law issues which have a great deal of influence on the daily lives of individual citizens. one specific issue is the review of the brussels i regulation on the recognition and enforcement of judgments from other member states. these may sound very technical, but they are of great importance to individual citizens. one of the most important issues concerns the abolition of the enforcement procedure. today, if you want a decision to be enforced in another member state, you must first apply for and then obtain enforcement by a court in that country. it takes time and costs the individual. we have noted that there is a great deal of support for the abolition of the enforcement procedure, but that it must be accompanied by procedural guarantees and rules on the choice of law. these were some of the big and important issues raised by sweden, as well as by many member states. i would like to thank you very much for your attention and look forward to hearing your comments and answering questions. but before i do that, i would like to give the floor to my colleague, tobias billström, who is responsible for and will be presenting some of the asylum and migration issues that are important in the forthcoming stockholm programme.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the european parliament for the very good cooperation it has shown with regard to the european asylum support office. there are still some formalities to be completed, but the conditions will soon be in place for the establishment of the office. the council is very positive about the constructive cooperation with the european parliament which has led to this result. this bodes well for the enlarged cooperation which we are facing with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the fact that we have been able to reach a rapid decision on the support office is a good example of an efficient and well-functioning codecision process. what we are debating here today is the next five-year programme for the work on justice and home affairs. i would like to start by saying that a lot has happened in the eu in the area of asylum and migration in recent years. for example, we have decided on common legislation both on the first foundations of a common immigration policy and on a common asylum system. this is an objective which was also set out in the two previous work programmes from tampere and the hague. the adoption by the european council last year of the european pact on asylum and migration gave new political impetus to this policy area. it is now time to set the course for the further development of policy in this area. the starting point of our work is that well managed migration can be beneficial for all actors involved, not just for individual member states and the eu as a whole, but also for the countries of origin and the individual migrants. if we are to live up to the lisbon strategy's goals of making the eu a dynamic and competitive economy, we will likely need to open up to labour immigration to a greater extent than is currently the case, not least given the demographic challenge we face. in order to emphasise the international dimension of migration, the issue of cooperation with countries of origin and transit in the context of the global approach to migration and development should be the focus of the stockholm programme. the instruments developed, such as mobility partnerships, should continue to be developed and strategically consolidated. the link between migration and development needs to be better addressed and appropriate measures to better address the positive development impacts of migration need to be strengthened. the stockholm programme has shown that there is a consensus that member states must act together and in a coordinated manner to counter illegal immigration to the eu. the development of an effective return policy is an important element in this work. there is no doubt that frontex has an important role to play in this context and it is clear that the member states want to see the agency strengthened. increasing cooperation with countries of origin and transit is also of great interest. however, i would like to stress that in the fight against illegal immigration it is important that we maintain a balance so that security-oriented measures are not implemented at the expense of complicating legal immigration to the eu or of making it difficult for asylum seekers to access the asylum process. the risks to vulnerable groups, such as unaccompanied children, must also be minimised. the commission will develop an action plan with measures that take into account the best interests of the child. the question of solidarity and responsibility sharing will be addressed in the stockholm programme. there are no easy solutions. our starting point should be to seek broad and sustainable solutions, based on the global approach to migration and the recognition that joint cooperation with third countries is a crucial factor. some form of solidarity mechanism needs to be developed to help member states under particular pressure and receiving a disproportionate share of asylum seekers. member states must also be supported for further capacity building. frontex must be strengthened and given a greater role in return operations. the aim is to improve our solidarity with those member states and third countries most exposed to migratory pressure. at the same time, we must be clear that a comprehensive approach is needed that is sustainable in both the short and long term. it is important that the stockholm programme establishes the objective of establishing a common european asylum system by 2012 as a long-standing objective. the basic element of the common asylum system must be that an individual asylum seeker is to be treated equally and his application is to be assessed according to the same criteria, irrespective of the member state to which he or she arrives. to achieve this, effective practical cooperation is essential. in this context, the asylum support office will have an important role to play. another important element of the common asylum system is the so-called external dimension. i am thinking in particular of the resettlement of refugees from third countries. the commission has recently presented a proposal for a joint eu resettlement programme. this is an aspect that most member states would like to see reflected in the stockholm programme. the objective of having a common asylum system in 2012 requires close cooperation between the council and parliament. a number of legislative proposals are on the table. we have to get through them first. the link between the eu's internal work on justice and home affairs and the union's external relations has become increasingly important for progress to be made, not just in asylum and migration policy. the eu's role as a global actor in this field should therefore be strengthened, with a particular focus on partnerships and cooperation with third countries. the rif perspective in the eu's external relations needs to be developed. this is the main thrust of the presidency's draft stockholm programme. we are now at the end of a very intensive period of negotiation and the programme will hopefully be adopted within a few weeks. in conclusion, i should like to say a few words about the treaty of lisbon. the new treaty brings major changes in the area of freedom, security and justice by introducing a number of new legal bases. the so-called ordinary legislative procedure introduced means that the european parliament is given a stronger role in the legislative process in a number of areas. minister ask and i look forward to increased cooperation with the european parliament. i also believe that the new tasks of the national parliaments will be important in strengthening democratic control over this policy area. thank you so much for your attention. as my colleague, beatrice ask, said, we are now looking forward to your views.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, after the excellent reports by beatrice ask and tobias billström, i shall stick to the main points. i would like to thank the presidency for having kept the spirit of the stockholm programme in its communication and for having put the citizen at the heart of the action. we hope that this text, which should be adopted by the next jha council and then submitted to the european council in december, will be an ambitious, balanced text and, of course, will reflect the new institutional balance. you will now be co-legislators in almost all areas of jha, and it is therefore true that this parliamentarisation of the european union implies both an increase in the powers of the european parliament in the decision-making process, but also greater control by the national parliaments of their respective governments. this is where this association of parliaments is a chance for this great area of security, justice and freedom. i come now to the priorities outlined in your draft resolution. you emphasize respect for fundamental rights. you are right to insist on this freedom of movement, which is a major asset and which should not be called into question. the lisbon treaty has made two major advances in the field of fundamental rights. the charter of fundamental rights becomes binding and the way is open for the union to accede to the european convention on human rights. as you stress in your resolution, a comprehensive data protection regime, which takes account of technological developments, is needed. the commission will present a communication on this subject in 2010. i also believe that we will have to cover all the policies of the union with this comprehensive data protection regime. you insist on protecting children. we have celebrated the 20th anniversary of the international convention on the rights of the child with the swedish presidency. the union must remain at the forefront of this issue. we will therefore present an action plan on unaccompanied minors in early 2010. in general, the commission and parliament share the same determination to combat all forms of discrimination and to promote equality between men and women. i welcome the fact that parliament and the commission share the approach of putting the citizen at the heart of the action: free movement, electoral rights, consular protection, etc. we will now be able to put all this into practice. the lisbon treaty allows for the citizens' initiative procedure and the commission has just launched a green paper on this subject. a proposal will be presented in 2010 based on the outcome of the consultations. as the minister, mrs beatrice ask, has just said very well, we need to share a common european judicial culture with the judges of our member states. it comes through training. we have made a commitment in the stockholm programme that at least half of the judges and prosecutors in the union will have to have received european training or have been involved in an exchange with another state. you also stress the need to facilitate access to justice and to support the smooth functioning of economic activity. you emphasise the protection of victims victims of domestic violence or victims of terrorism. the commission will also make proposals on this subject, taking advantage of the opportunities opened up by the lisbon treaty. as regards the protection and security aspect, you point out that there is no overall strategy on security architecture and border management. that is why, as beatrice ask has rightly said, the stockholm programme contains a genuine internal security strategy - a strategy which is of course in line with fundamental rights and which is complementary to the external security strategy. this comprehensive internal security strategy is based on police and criminal justice cooperation and on the management of access to european territory. as tobias billström has just explained, immigration policy must be part of a long-term vision to optimise the contribution of migration to economic and social development. we must offer a clear and common status for legal immigrants. we must also prevent and reduce illegal immigration while respecting human rights and human dignity. i would add that we have described in this part what the overall approach is that links development and migration. on the question of asylum, i agree with your call for real solidarity between member states. the union must become a genuine common area of protection based on solidarity, respect for fundamental rights and high standards of protection, and asylum must be offered, as tobias billström has said, according to the same criteria as in europe. solidarity between member states, and particularly with those most affected by the influx of refugees, must be fully expressed. of course, this area of freedom, security and justice requires a strong external dimension consistent with the union's external policy. you mentioned several times in your resolution the importance of monitoring and the implementation of evaluation. we agree with you on this point as well. we need to close the significant gap between standards and policies adopted at european level and their implementation at national level. we also need to consider the possible impact of legislative proposals on citizens and we need to improve the use of evaluation of adopted instruments. in conclusion, the commission is fully involved in the negotiation of the stockholm programme. i said how satisfied i was with the cooperation with the swedish presidency, with which we have really done a solid and serious job. of course, parliament's opinion is also very important to us in these last moments between the adoption of the stockholm programme by the european council. that is why i thank you very much, and that is why i, too, will listen to you very carefully. thank you to parliament.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not mr vice-president, madam minister, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am not going to go into detail. i have been here in the european parliament for five years, working in the fields of home affairs and justice. i am therefore delighted that today we are able to discuss programmes for the next five years, where we, as an equal european parliament, can legislate and deliberate on this future. we are discussing a dossier, a field of action that moves the citizens, where the citizens expect answers from us, where they even say that we need more europe. this is not the case in all subject areas. this is the case. they're calling us. they want answers from us. i would therefore like to describe very briefly the change brought about by the new working basis and also by the topics. firstly, cooperation with the council: we always have representatives of the council here who, when they are president of the council, say that parliament is very important, that we must work together. when they are no longer in that function, that understanding often crumbles. it will be up to us as members of parliament to ask the council not to allow it to pass by again that it has created facts, as it did with swift, for example, even though we in parliament are not involved in the approval process. this cannot and will not be the case in the future. it was a bad example of the mutual seriousness of the institutions. second, we have to be open-minded. the new treaty gives us the opportunity to put forward legislative initiatives. if we want to strengthen frontex, we must not only appeal, not only make proposals, but we must also put legislation on the table. we have the means to do so in the future. thirdly, we must also be a serious partner, not just formulate wish lists, for example, when it comes to the fight against illegal migration, not just take ngo positions, but we must be serious partners. the european parliament must take subsidiarity seriously. if we have responsibility, we must also reflect on the areas where decisions are better to be taken at national or regional level. there are four themes that are important to me for the next few years. the epp would have liked an even more ambitious proposal for the stockholm programme, but today is the day to rejoice that we are entering this new phase, and now we can only say: let's get to work!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the green group in the european parliament is asking itself the question: how can we be voting on a resolution on a programme that has long since passed away? the swedish presidency presented a new and radically altered draft of the stockholm programme just yesterday. i assume that the vast majority of this house have not yet been able to read this draft. i think that is an unacceptable situation for this highly sensitive subject. in addition, the procedure within parliament which led to this resolution was largely opaque and sometimes chaotic. the small groups were largely excluded from the drafting of the resolution and the abundance of motions in the joint committee procedures made democratic decision-making very difficult. so please note that we are going to be asking for a whole series of separate votes. but this parliament must give serious thought to how it intends to deal with these conditions both in the council and in its own house. the content of the stockholm programme: there is no doubt that some parts of this work programme are progressing. the green group also sees good prospects for the coming years in the area of justice and the joint development of civil law. but in the relationship between citizens and the state, the programme is simply a manifestation of the wrong way round. in the field of migration and asylum policy as well as in the field of civil rights and data protection, the need for security in europe is put before human rights and freedom. it is openly suggested that more freedom in europe automatically leads to less security. i ask you: what has happened to the founding myth of the european idea? the fear that is being fomented here is not - as the programme describes - a legitimate fear of organised crime or terrorism, but fear of our fellow citizens in europe, of those who want to come to europe and of everything that seems to us to be foreign. the stockholm programme and, unfortunately, the resolution that has been tabled, are advancing the link between domestic and foreign policy, to enable the surveillance of all people in europe and the disengagement of people at europe's external borders, for example by frontex. europe must finally abandon this trend and examine the misdevelopments of recent years. this includes standing up for your beliefs with confidence. for example, when it comes to how we deal with the swift agreement. why are we now again giving in to us policy on security policy - for example, on this swift agreement - without any reason, without having a detailed debate on this again? why do we always let the council present itself as a parliament? we should certainly tackle this as a parliament. let us not forget that the european union is a democratic country, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, we greens cannot therefore vote in favour of the resolution.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the gue/ngl group will not support this resolution. the stockholm programme completely ignores the real challenges of the present. the fundamental mistake is that a europe of rights is being established, which is to be granted to eu citizens but not to other people living in europe. these people should not be given the same human and civil rights. on the one hand, the eu wants to join the charter of human rights - which we welcome - but on the other hand, migrants are being sorted out according to the principle of "legal or illegal". the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. this is where stockholm fails. another problem is the completely unbalanced relationship between security and freedom. yes, there is no freedom without security, but there is no security without freedom either! freedom is not a bargaining chip, but a universal right of every human being. stockholm, on the other hand, symbolises the eu's security mania, in which vast supranational databases are created without sufficient controls, linking intelligence and police data across europe. the right to information self-determination of the people is thus being made a reality and the vision of a glass man is actually becoming a reality. in conclusion, as a member of the east german parliament, i must say that 20 years after the fall of the berlin wall, it is unbearable for me to see europe becoming more and more a fortress.
mr president, just two points that my group thinks are very crucial about the stockholm programme. first, we believe that the method of balance very often used in this programme goes a bit in the wrong direction. security, to us, is only a tool for reaching freedom it is not its opponent. when we are not free we are not secure. we find that balance a bit misleading. then secondly, on frontex, minister wallström, what do you actually mean when you talk about strengthening frontex? what do you mean by that? because that has not been clarified in any of the versions of the stockholm programme i have seen. and would you not think that it is may be extremely important - more important even - to strengthen the parliamentary control over frontex and stopping frontex from sending back people that might very well have a reason to ask for asylum as frontex has been doing this year. i would prefer to see a strengthening there. i believe that the stockholm programme should serve all the residents of the eu, not just a few.
mr president, i found part of the discussion a bit strange. why are the people here illegally? they are here illegally because there is no way that they can get out of their country, which is at war, in a legal way. there is no way they can get here legally, so it is not really surprising that we find them coming here illegally. we all know how difficult it is to apply for and to get asylum since the geneva convention is pretty strict on this and you have to prove that you are personally persecuted, which of course is difficult when you are fleeing from war. now you are saying that just because they did not get their asylum claim through, we should send them back to afghanistan, where there is war and where people cannot live, where they cannot survive, where there is no way of earning a living and where there is, by the way, also a strong war against women. so, just on this last ground all the women fleeing from there should be given asylum. i would urge all the member states and the commission to fight against sending these people back to afghanistan.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. these are extremely important issues that we are discussing. transparency and openness are the democratic tools we have. the citizens' confidence is enhanced by their transparency in the process, and this is good for the union's work. here in parliament and in the council we have common objectives. this is true everywhere, in all areas and for all institutions. today we're talking about the 2007 discharge. i would of course like to stress the importance of external audit in general and of budget implementation in particular, and in this context also highlight the role of the court of auditors and the very good work that forms the basis of the annual audit. as regards the specific question of this very report on the 2007 discharge, i would like to express my satisfaction that you are now recommending that the council be discharged. if we look at the facts, there is no reason why we should not grant this. we in the council have always been committed to the rules and to transparency in financial management. and it will continue to be so. i understand that the informal meeting in september between the delegation of the committee on budgetary control and the delegation of the council led to the clarification of a number of points and that this was what made it possible - as the rapporteur also said - to grant the council a discharge in 2007. this clearly highlights the importance of a dialogue between our institutions in the future. i am therefore very pleased that we have found a way forward on these issues, which allows for a discharge, and i look forward to this being confirmed when the vote is taken tomorrow.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a miracle has happened! for the first time in five years, the council is taking part in this debate, and i would like to thank the swedish presidency very warmly for this great sign. (applause) i would like to thank welcome to the house for the first time, to the debate on your discharge. all's well that ends well, as we say in germany? no, not this time. the discharge procedure with the council has shown that it is indefinable and urgently needed on the interinstitutional agenda, which is also extended to the president of the council. we have a new player at european level and the old procedure cannot and must not continue. the way in which parliament has to beg for information and interlocutors in order to get answers to its open questions is unworthy of a parliamentary democracy. the council is the last body of absolutist proportions, and as a citizen of the european union i am ashamed of it in front of my constituents in my constituency. the procedure we have just followed is simply absurd and must not be repeated. i thank the swedish presidency again. we're off to an interesting start. for the first time, we've had this conversation, an unprecedented milestone, and that you're here today is a fantastic sign. the president of the council, like any other eu institution, must face the discharge in parliament, and this is of course especially true of the new foreign minister as head of the new diplomatic service. we must now show that this issue is important to us as parliamentarians and that we must work together to bring it forward. this is a matter which must be on every agenda and i would ask the commission to put it on the agenda. we do not like the way the debate has been going. the fact that we have nothing, no blueprint for what the future should look like, worries us. the european union must not become synonymous with an opaque european union with reduced parliamentary control. it is the chance of a new beginning with a strong participation of the elected representatives of the people, and the discharge of the future president of the council is the first taste of the nail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i also thank mr søndergaard for the successful work which has finally brought the council into line with the european parliament in the discharge procedure. the council has long refused to give a meaningful answer to parliament's questions, invoking the so-called gentlemen's agreement, an informal agreement which is now at least 40 years old. it is particularly bizarre that after 40 years council officials apparently no longer know what exactly is in the gentlemen's agreement. the text which the european parliament's administration has put before us contains the exact opposite of what the council has repeatedly stated in the negotiations. the first resolution of this gentlemen's agreement states that the council will not make any changes to the european parliament's expenditure. the third resolution says that there should be close cooperation between the two institutions on budgetary matters. for the council, this means that the financial management of each institution is not affected by the other. i shall spare myself at this point any comment on the seriousness of this argument. i would like to thank the swedish presidency for having started to put an end to this shameful situation. the solution is an addendum to the interinstitutional agreement which clearly regulates the procedure for the discharge of the council by the european parliament, as the proposal for a decision presented here requires. i therefore ask the house to support this motion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to express my warm welcome to the swedish presidency of the council, and i would also like to personally thank cecilia malmström for making the procedure more transparent. because everything that has been said by the colleagues here is true: the procedure is more transparent, and although she has been a little more cautious today, we can say that we are here to discharge. but we still have a long way to go. we call on the council to follow up this first step with further steps, especially since the council's powers in the field of foreign and security policy are more clearly defined under the lisbon treaty. with mrs ashton, this policy will also have a face in the future. but the people have not known mrs ashton before, and those european taxpayers will not know exactly what money she is sitting on and what she is doing with her money. we have to end this state of affairs. this is absolutist at a time when we are actually fighting for a transparent, democratic europe. i thank the rapporteur, mr søndergaard, for having put pressure on our behalf as a parliament, and we will continue to put pressure.
member of the commission. − as regards european employment policy, i would point out that in the pre-crisis period the employment rate reached the highest level ever recorded in europe. this signals in some ways the impact of european employment policy on the labour market. as regards the sub-issues you mention, which concern the social insurance and social security systems within the meaning of the ec treaty, these systems are part of national responsibility.
i just wanted to thank the commissioner for his work, since this is his last visit. i'm sorry he's not coming back. i just wanted to say this in public. we had our differences, but he was a good commissioner.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i'm not going to tell you. i am not going to go into detail. i am presenting to you today, as rapporteur for the committee on budgets, the proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in two cases, one based on the requests from belgium and the other based on the requests from ireland. i would like to point out, however, that it is the task of the committee on budgets to check whether the conditions for mobilising the globalisation fund have been met, and i would also like to emphasise that in recent months there has always been excellent cooperation between the committee on budgets and the committee on employment and social affairs, also in similar cases. we have also tried to take due account of the comments and criticisms made by the employment committee, and it is therefore right, in view of the need for questions, to deal with this subject in addition to the oral question from the employment committee. they know that the globalisation fund is endowed with a maximum amount of eur 500 million per year and that it is intended exclusively to provide additional support for workers affected by globalisation, who have been made redundant and are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. we have made it clear in the resolution that we repeatedly question the use of funds from the european social fund to finance the globalisation fund, and i would urge you, commissioner, to confirm once again today that this does not end up being at the expense of payments from the esf. i would like to ask the commission once again today to make a specific request for the commitment it gave us in the committee on budgets, namely that in future we shall not submit requests for the mobilisation of the fund together but that we shall submit them separately, because each case is a little different and a case which is complicated should not make it more difficult to advocate another case. i hope you can confirm that today. the facts of the two cases: also on the basis of the amended rules, since these two applications were lodged after 1 may 2009, the total amount to be mobilised is approximately eur 24 million. this is to cover part of the loss of jobs in the textile industry in belgium and in the computer industry in ireland. in belgium, the total number of redundancies was 2 199 in 46 textile companies, all located in two neighbouring nuts 2 regions, east and west flanders, and in a single nuts 2 region, limburg. the belgian authorities requested eur 9.2 million from the fund for this purpose. the committee on employment has rightly raised a number of further questions on ireland's application, which are being dealt with in the future or have already been supplemented in part by additional information. it refers to 2 840 redundancies at dell in the counties of limerick, clare and north tipperary and the city of limerick, of which 2 400 were considered for assistance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them, and i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. i would ask the house to vote in favour of this report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the globalisation fund helps people with further education and training. this is the social side of europe, and it is a good side. the commission also examined the aid granted to dell in poland. it has approved 54 million in polish state aid for dell, allegedly for the purpose of regional economic development. the question arises first of all: do we really have to compete with taxpayers' money in europe in this way? i'm not going to. we should change the aid law in the form that subsidies are no longer paid for relocation, not even by the member states. i would also like to ask the commission directly: does the 54 million euro of polish money for dell include money from the european structural funds? why, commissioner, is there no clear opinion from the commission on this? i really urge the commission to take seriously its duty of review under the structural funds regulations. there must be no european money for relocation within the european union. what you said here today, commissioner, was an evasive response. they hide behind the polish government reports. but they do not directly check whether the european structural funds regulation has actually been complied with. let us finally create transparency and publish every single grant from the structural funds, as is done in the agricultural policy. only then can we really build confidence in european structural policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to return to the second statement by commissioner špidla. he says we can't influence corporate decisions. that's just not true. we are of course influencing business decisions by paying subsidies, by paying european structural funds and by paying aid. that is why parliament, when it was negotiating the regulation, discussed this very question of relocation. but in the end parliament has bowed, unfortunately also with the votes of the epp, mr pieper, and has only put five years into the structural fund regulation, which is of course not enough at all, considering also the size of the subsidies. the greens/efa group was the only one to say at the time that we need at least 10 years in this part of the regulation that the commissioner quoted, where it is about a company paying back if it leaves sooner. i can only say that this case shows that the greens/efa group was right.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, i think that the discussion can be formulated in principle in two parallel lines. the first of these notes that the globalisation adjustment fund is working but that there are reasons to optimise its use. the question of time was mentioned, although i think that the question of time is to some extent overcome by the fact that the member state can react immediately and recover the costs. i think that this is something that needs to be discussed and that we need to look for solutions in this direction. the question of a separate budget line was also raised. it is true that at the time of the creation of the fund this was not realistically possible. yet the fund works in this constellation. so, in my opinion, we need to ask all the questions we can and find better solutions than we have found so far. but all this does not call into question the basic principle that in a crisis the fund works and really helps. the second question that was debated is a much more complex question. it is a question of relocation, a question of possible subsidy competition and a number of other related issues which are extremely complex. i think it's right to address them and it's right to address them based on a deep understanding of the facts, and let me bring up some facts in this debate that are relevant to the dell case and that are relevant to some of our thinking about the overall problem. the first is that, contrary to the prevailing view, the oecd wage costs per unit of production in poland are significantly higher than in ireland. thus, the wage costs in poland are not lower but higher than in ireland. this too is something to be aware of, because drawing conclusions from direct comparisons in complex situations is not a reliable method. i want to emphasize that if we want to debate these things, we need to go very deep, or at some points, deepen some of our views. the second question is the question of the dell case itself. it is true that dell started its operations in limerick in 1991, i.e. 18 years ago. it is also true that there is no record of him receiving any support from european funds for this activity. there is no such information, although i do not exclude that he received support from regional funds, because at that time, in 1990, there were no obligations and methods that would allow us to receive this information. it is also a fact that the decision to move to lodz was made at the level of dell in 2007. it is also a fact that the money used as state aid is polish money and that this aid was notified in december 2007. it is not therefore the european structural funds. in this case it is not in all cases, but in cases that are over eur 50 million, and this was our case the assessment is very detailed and also deals with labour market issues. the commission concluded that the two operations, which are so significantly separated in time, were not linked. but this does not mean that the use of european funds must be discussed in depth again and again, on the basis of our new knowledge, and that it is undoubtedly right to ensure a higher degree of coherence. i think the dell case has served as a good springboard and that it is certainly right to continue this discussion. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate and for the opportunity to reflect with you on some aspects of the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund, and let me simply conclude by saying that there is certainly a risk of inefficient or suboptimal use in a number of our policies, and this inherent risk will be present in our policies as they evolve. so it is up to us to be aware of this, to dare to look at some of the established principles with new eyes and if we find intellectual and technical solutions and political consensus, to change these old, established, perhaps even outdated methods.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to say again that in the last few months we have been working, particularly in the committee on budgets and the committee on employment and social affairs, to set up the procedures as quickly as possible on the basis of an opinion from the committee on employment, which has also set up a special working party to this end, so that, after careful consideration, the funds can be made available as quickly as possible in the interests of the workers concerned and their families. secondly, in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework and the new instruments, in the context of the budgetary review and the budgetary audit, we must also review the functioning and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund, like all the other instruments, in terms of the impact, the management and the interaction of the institutions at national and european level. we must think about how this can be made even more efficient in conjunction with the european social fund. we should be open to any discussion that might lead to improvement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but in the end i would like the total of commitments and payments under the multiannual financial framework for both the structural funds and the esf to be as we have agreed in the totals. it is not possible that because of the lack of implementation, because of the problems with the control and management systems and because of the late implementation of these funds, money might be held back and that we would then take a tranche of it every year to finance such additional programmes. it's not in the inventor's best interest. i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to express your views on the commission's proposal. we have asked similar questions elsewhere, when nokia was in bochum and was being moved to romania. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i sometimes get the impression that these issues are similar to the control of fishing quotas: one is pushing it a little bit to the other without creating an efficient system in the end. we will continue to follow up and investigate these issues very closely in similar cases and insist that the commission act accordingly in accordance with the regulations and rules as we decided in 2007. in conclusion, i would ask you to give your consent to this mobilisation of the globalisation fund tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. security is a high good. safety must be the absolute priority. it must remain the absolute exception that, as happened in berlin, the s-bahn collapsed because of fixed-rate financing. what bombs and shells failed to do in the war, we had to experience in berlin in the last six months. this has to stop! the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive. then security arguments are invoked to avoid opening the networks at all, as we have done with the legislation on 1 january 2007, which is binding for all eu member states. you must intervene, the security arguments must not be abused. of course, security costs money. but we need investment in infrastructure, in security. the money is there. i would remind you that, for example, the exemption from taxation of kerosene costs european taxpayers 14 billion euros every year. if you were to use this money for safety, we would have a european railway market and safety, that is the need of the hour.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have read the new slovak law from cover to cover. mr swoboda is right: people generally get along well in everyday life, even in southern slovakia. the new law on the state language is also unnecessary because the slovak language is not endangered in slovakia. unfortunately, it is in part discriminatory against the czech population, because in many cases the czech language is better placed than hungarian. why not at least equal treatment for czech and hungarian? this novelty can only be explained by the strange composition of the current government coalition in slovakia, where comrade fico is trying to drive away the votes of the nationalists of the sns and the populists of the hzds by invoking alleged hungarian dangers. i am glad that during the government coalition of mikuláš dzurinda, such a thing was not necessary. at that time the three epp parties, including the minority party, worked well together and not against each other, and that should have been the goal.
acting president of the council. - mr president, mr barroso, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is a pleasure to have this opportunity to discuss with you in the run-up to the next european council. it is the second ordinary meeting held under the swedish presidency and it will also be the last to be chaired by a rotating presidency. as you are well aware, the treaty of lisbon enters into force on 1 december, but in accordance with the declaration adopted by the european council in december 2008, the rotating presidency will continue to chair the european council until the end of the presidency at the turn of the year. all the member states have now ratified and deposited their instruments of ratification in rome. it is therefore very gratifying to be able to say that the treaty of lisbon will enter into force on 1 december. it has been a long and arduous process - parliament knows that. the new treaty will change the way the eu works in several ways. the treaty will give us a better chance of tackling the important issues facing the eu, and we can do so more democratically, more openly and more efficiently. it also means many important reforms which concern you here in the european parliament. at the extraordinary european council last week, the heads of state or government agreed to elect herman van rompuy as president of the european council. he will lead the work of the european council and drive it forward from 1 january. the council also agreed, with the approval of the president of the commission, to appoint catherine ashton as the new high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. under the treaty, catherine ashton will take up all her functions on 1 december, including as vice-president of the commission. in connection with the european parliament's position to all members, you will of course also hold hearings with cathrine ashton. i understand she's on her way to the foreign affairs committee shortly to present herself and answer questions. the european council also agreed to appoint mr pierre de boissieu as secretary-general of the council. the work to prepare for the entry into force of the lisbon treaty continued on the basis of the principles set out by the presidency in its progress report to the european council in october. on 1 december, a number of decisions will be taken to bring the treaty of lisbon fully into place, such as a revised council rules of procedure and a european council rules of procedure. we will present a new report to the european council in december, summarising the state of play of the issues we have discussed in connection with the implementation and practical application of the lisbon treaty. the european external action service is one of these issues. the report shall also contain a 'roadmap' indicating the way forward for work in that area. the european council in december will focus on economic and financial issues. the effects of the crisis will be felt for a long time to come, not least on the labour market. but it is also important to think long term, and to address important challenges in both the medium and long term. the eu, the member states and the european central banks have taken a number of measures, such as bank guarantee schemes and the european recovery plan. these measures have contributed significantly to increasing financial stability and reducing the impact of the crisis on growth and employment. the economic outlook is brighter, but there are still significant risks. the time has therefore not yet come to withdraw the aid measures that have been taken. however, we have started a discussion in the council on the way in which the special crisis measures are to be phased out and when they can be started. the european council will review the work of the council on exit strategies. we will also follow up the eu recovery plan. as regards financial markets, it is gratifying to note that the situation on the financial markets has improved considerably. the financial sector's need for support measures has decreased. we must therefore devise strategies for the coordinated winding-up of the measures. however, it is important to stress that it is still too early to start a general phase-out of the financial support measures. the swedish presidency aims to agree on a number of guiding principles on timing, coordination and rotation of the way in which the aid measures are to be phased out. now to financial supervision. there is a consensus that increased cooperation and improved synergy in financial supervision within the eu is necessary, not least with the experience we have gained during the financial crisis. the proposal on the structure and direction of the work of the systemic risk council was adopted by eu finance ministers at the ecofin meeting on 20 october. the presidency was then given a mandate to open negotiations with the european parliament, which we have also done. as regards the three 'micro-authorities', the presidency's objective is to reach a general approach for them and thus for the whole of the so-called supervisory package at the next ecofin meeting on 2 december, with a view to reporting back to the council in december. the value of having a structure in place is significant, towards the financial industry, towards the rest of europe and towards our citizens. the package includes a review of the scheme in three years. we can then correct any deficiencies that may appear to be less functional and efficient. the current eu strategy for jobs and growth, the so-called lisbon strategy, expires next year. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the eu agree on a new strategy that can promote a vision of long-term growth and prosperity. this will be one of the most important issues of the coming months and one of the priorities of the forthcoming spanish presidency. the economic and financial crisis has created pressure for immediate action to minimise the impact on growth and employment. at the same time, structural weaknesses and the long-term challenges for our economies have become more apparent. maintaining and strengthening europe's competitiveness on the global market, combating climate change and addressing the challenges of an ageing population are demanding tasks for the european union and its member states in the medium and long term. this requires common and coordinated solutions, a common vision and a strengthened european reform agenda for the next decade. the vision is about turning challenges into opportunities. it is about realising the full potential of the single market and harnessing the benefits of external trade and openness. it is about recognising the potential of transforming europe into an eco-efficient or climate-smart economy and creating a labour market with high levels of employment, sustainable public finances and social cohesion. the swedish presidency is conducting a second follow-up to the eu's sustainability strategy. progress has been made in many areas. at the same time, there are several areas where so-called unsustainable trends have been identified. these are the rapidly increasing demand for natural resources, the decline in biodiversity, the increasing energy consumption of transport and the persistence of global poverty. we have discussed how to monitor and follow up the strategy better and more effectively, including how to exploit the coordination gains arising from the interaction with other eu strategies, such as the lisbon strategy. the european council shall also address the issue of the integrated maritime policy. the commission has recently issued its progress report. the european council will take note of the report and give its views on the future direction of this important cross-sectoral work. in this context, i would like to highlight in particular the vision of sustainable economic growth, jobs and innovation in an eco-efficient way. the european council has also adopted a new five-year work programme in the area of freedom, security and justice. the so-called stockholm programme will be the successor to the current hague programme, which was adopted in 2004. the vision of the stockholm programme is a safer and more open europe where the rights of the individual are protected. the programme is the result of intensive contacts and discussions in the council and with the european parliament. at the same time, valuable contributions have come from national parliaments, civil society, eu bodies and various agencies and authorities. my colleagues, minister for justice beatrice ask and minister for migration tobias billström, were here yesterday for a very long debate and presented the stockholm programme. i will not therefore repeat what they said, but i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize that the stockholm programme focuses on concrete measures which add value to the daily lives of citizens. this includes cooperation outside the eu. a more secure and open europe requires genuine partnership with our partner countries. future work in this area should be based on a balance between measures aimed at creating a safe and secure europe and measures aimed at protecting the rights of the individual. the ambitious work that has been done, and our future approach of increased co-decision for the european parliament, should help to give us a programme of action that can better address these major challenges. the climate change. of course, just as the european council is meeting, so are the climate negotiations in copenhagen. these issues are important for europe and for the future of our planet. two weeks ago, prime minister fredrik reinfeldt stood in parliament in brussels and presented the outcome of the european council meeting in october, including the main elements of the eu's positions ahead of the copenhagen conference. it is now of the utmost importance that we continue to emphasise to our partners around the world the value we attach to this and that we provide the momentum to move the negotiations forward. the swedish presidency is making every effort to do so. the european council next month will assess the state of play of the simultaneous negotiations in order to take the decisions necessary to ensure a successful outcome in copenhagen. as usual, a number of foreign policy issues may also be raised at the european council, but it is a little too early to say what they might be. the swedish presidency's main priorities have been to respond to the demands of climate change and to ensure that the eu maintains its leadership in the copenhagen negotiations, while being responsible for the continued response to the economic and financial crisis. at this last summit, these issues will be given the highest priority.
president of the commission. − mr president, we have on many occasions discussed the great opportunities offered by the lisbon treaty for the european union, so let me express once again my satisfaction that when we meet each other next time, we will do so with the lisbon treaty already in force. and, with the treaty in force, it is time to move even more decisively beyond institutional discussions towards policies and results for citizens. the appointments made last week, naming herman van rompuy as president of the council and catherine ashton as high representative and vice-president of the commission, are the first steps towards the full implementation of the lisbon treaty. i know that both president van rompuy and high representative vice-president baroness ashton are eager to start putting the lisbon treaty to work. the designation of herman van rompuy was, by consensus, a decision of the heads of state and government. it is a decision i welcome and personally support very much. herman van rompuy has earned huge respect as prime minister of belgium. he brings a combination of the instinctive europeanism of belgium – a founding member of our union, a country that has always been at the forefront of this european project – and his own skills as consensus builder: exactly the two most precious qualities to have as president of the european council. i look forward to working in tandem with him and to joining him here in the plenary debates on the european council. it is essential that, while every institution has to work within the respect of its own competences and that of other institutions, we all work together for the common european good. i am extremely proud and happy that catherine ashton has been designated as the first vice-president/high representative. it is an appointment that i supported and approved during the european council, as it is necessary according to the treaties. we all know her well as someone who has both the political skill and the sense of direction to take on the demanding task of the first high representative and vice-president of the commission. i can assure you, from my own experience with her as a member of the commission, of her deep commitment to the european project. as i said yesterday, all the nominations for the commission have now been made. i am particularly happy that within one week it was possible to triple the nominations of women from three to nine. so the next commission will have nine female members, one more than the current commission, and once again i want to thank all of you who have supported me in this difficult task of getting at least a reasonable – not an ideal, but a reasonable – number of women for the next commission. i will now move on to the portfolio allocations. it is my privilege to assure this house that i will do so in the full respect of the priorities defined in the political guidelines that i presented to you and that through your vote were endorsed by parliament, and i will also respect all the commitments i made to parliament on that occasion. then parliament can hold substantive hearings and vote on the next college in january. next month, the european council gives us the first significant opportunity to show that we are now focused on policy substance, to show that it will make a difference. i would like to concentrate very briefly on three key dossiers which will be under the spotlight. first, climate change. a european council a week before the conclusion of the copenhagen summit is certainly well timed. the european union has shown itself the pioneer of action on climate change. we have been the first to show that cap and trade can work. we have been the first to put a binding, tough target for reduced emissions on the table. we have led the way in defining how the developing world can make a real contribution to financing the costs of climate change in developing countries. but, as the preparation of the copenhagen conference draws to its close, the pressure grows. we need to stay united and to keep focused on our goal of cutting global emissions and getting the necessary finance on the table; that is our task. we have to say clearly that it cannot only be a task for europe: we need others, namely the major economies, also to contribute to ambitious goals. what should the key messages from the european council be? first, that we want to see an ambitious and meaningful agreement in copenhagen that, first and foremost, enshrines the 2°c objective. this is essential. sometimes we see politicians and diplomats negotiating. they can negotiate – we can negotiate – with each other, but we cannot negotiate with science. we cannot negotiate against the science of nature. we cannot negotiate against the scientific advice, and this is the minimum: to reach an agreement compatible with the 2°c objective. so we must set real and effective emission reduction targets for developed countries, as well as substantive actions from developing countries, especially the fast-growing, emerging economies. it must also be comprehensive, covering the full range of issues in the bali road map. second, even if at copenhagen it will not unfortunately be possible to finalise a new treaty, it must bring an operational agreement based on real commitments on all sides, to which all the major players contribute and which is endorsed at the highest political level. we need a clear, simple political text that shows that we are moving from talking about tackling climate change to doing something about it. and it should be explicit that this will be turned into a fully fledged treaty as soon as possible. the agreement should be precise. that means specific individual numbers on reduction of emissions and a detailed finance package to help developing countries both to develop mitigation programmes and to adapt to climate change. in particular, fast start funding is going to be very important. finally, i feel the leaders’ involvement is going to be central as these are difficult decisions that need to be made at highest levels of government. i am pleased to hear that, following prime minister rasmussen’s invitation, already at least 65 or so heads of state or government are planning to attend copenhagen. i will attend myself. another key area is the stockholm programme in the area of justice, liberty and security. people want to live in a european union that is prosperous and peaceful, where their rights are respected and their security protected. they want to be able to travel freely and to move temporarily or permanently to another european country in order to study, to work, to found a family, to set up a business or to retire. we have come a long way over the last 10 years. the removal of controls at internal borders in the schengen area allows more than 400 million citizens of 25 countries to travel without border control from the iberian peninsula to the baltic states, from greece to finland. now the lisbon treaty gives us a new opportunity to move ahead. we all know that freedom, security and justice will see some of the most significant changes from the treaty. it brings this area of policy fully within the scope of our normal procedures. it clarifies what action can be taken and, in particular, it extends the democratic framework for these policies by the full involvement of your parliament. the stockholm programme, which is largely based on commission input and proposals, will be a key lever to make this happen. it should set the scene for a comprehensive, effective programme of action which brings real change, real benefit for our citizens. the programme as it emerges from the european council needs to lay out the guiding priorities for justice and home affairs in the years to come and to show how they will be put into practice. more effective respect for fundamental rights; better access to the courts; more determined action against organised crime, human trafficking and terrorism; effective management of migration – these are all areas where the stockholm programme should set out a series of concrete steps forward. they also require a strong approach with our third-country partners, which i am determined to pursue as we work together to maximise our global interests. finally, we must continue to keep the focus on tackling the economic crisis. european union action has made a major contribution over the last year. now we must keep the strength of purpose and sense of focus. we must keep a close watch on our recovery measures, especially with unemployment still rising. our top priority must remain keeping people in jobs and helping those who have lost their jobs to get back into work. we must also start to shape a post-crisis agenda to exploit new sources of growth and find new job opportunities. the agenda we have sketched out in the 2020 strategy, the consultation paper that the commission circulated yesterday. i very much look forward to hearing the thoughts of parliament and including your views in the final document. the european council will also face a test of ambition with progress on the financial supervision package. i know this goal is shared by this parliament, and i urge you to work with the council to allow final adoption by mid-2010, so that effective new authorities can be in place by the end of 2010. to conclude, climate change, freedom, security and justice, and the response to the economic and financial crisis – these are three areas which impact on citizens every day of their lives and three areas where the european council can show that the lisbon treaty has indeed opened a new chapter in the history of the european project. in order to obtain meaningful results we must work in partnership – in partnership between the commission and parliament, to which i am grateful for consistent support for the policy ambitions put forward by the commission in these areas; in partnership with the swedish presidency of the council, which i really congratulate for the hard work done; and in partnership with our danish friends preparing the copenhagen conference. let us make the most out of what lies ahead. let us work together for the common european good. the commission and i myself are ready to take up the challenge. i am sure this parliament, with reinforced powers under the new treaty, will also show its sense of responsibility and its commitment to the europe of citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we have had a lot of discussions in the last few days after this european council on persons and on posts. i would like to address this to you again today, mr president of the commission. it's important to discuss people and positions. our group had a clear priority in terms of posts. we have said that we, as the second largest group in this house, want the second post in the commission, that is the high commissioner, or the high commissioner, in the capacity of vice-president of the commission, to be held by our party, because we believe that the commission - which is not a neutrum, but a political body - should also reflect the real situation in this parliament. we have succeeded, we have fought hard for this. i know that you have also fought for this, and i would like to express my thanks for that, in spite of all the criticism i may otherwise make of you in this house. this is a good sign, because it signals that the demands we social democrats in this house are making are being taken seriously by you, because we still have a long way to go before the final vote on the commission. we also expect that the structure of the portfolios that you will be designing for the individual commissioners will reflect what i believe is much more important than the debate on posts and persons, namely the content, the challenges faced by those persons. of course we are glad that cathy ashton has now taken the position of high commissioner, and enough has been said about mr van rompuy, and i agree with that. but more importantly, we have to ask the question: what are the tasks that these people are actually doing? i do not think that the citizens of europe have much interest in the form in which mr van rompuy or mrs ashton have now been elected. but the question of whether we can cope with unemployment, which is rising in europe and not falling, is an important one. the question of whether climate change can really be contained, whether copenhagen will be a failure or a success, is what people are interested in. not enough, by the way! in my opinion, there is not enough discussion about climate change. there is also not enough discussion about the fact that, for example, in tackling climate change, investing in environmentally friendly technology in industry has enormous job potential, that green technology is a project of the future, that industrial policy and environmental protection do not have to be mutually exclusive, but combined. you have argued in the right direction in the ideas you have put forward so far here on the structure of the commission. this is a task which must be tackled in copenhagen, as must global health policy, the question of whether europe is in solidarity with a dying continent such as africa, the fight against aids, the question of the development of resources for the future. can europe's energy security problem be solved peacefully? or are we also facing increased conflicts on the borders of europe over the supply of gas, oil and other raw materials? this is a task which a high representative of the european union must tackle. the question of controlling the financial markets is a priority objective of european policy in particular, because the biggest scandal is that in the middle of the period in which the taxpayers in europe must continue to shoulder the consequences of the crisis, the casino has already reopened and the gamblers are again on the move worldwide. this does not require a debate on the allocation of posts, but clear rules for financial markets in the european union. this is more important! (applause from the centre) that is why i say: yes, herman van rompuy has been elected! cathy ashton is elected, let's get to work! and the commission must now be set up. i would therefore like to repeat, in conclusion, to mr barroso: we social democrats have discussed our ideas with you. one requirement was met to our satisfaction, namely the position of high commissioner. we expect the ecological, social and financial structure of your commission to be as we social democrats demand it, preferably under the leadership of social democratic commissioners, and then nothing can happen to you.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr president of the commission! you will understand that as the leader of a group in this house i am naturally also pleased that we women have succeeded in making the women at the head of the european union more visible overall. we are also concerned that women are not only counted in numbers. you can be sure that we will support you in placing these women in influential positions within the commission. we don't want just a pro forma consideration, we want to be seen as a pro forma consideration. there has been a lot of press on the personalities of the top jobs, herman van rompuy and lady ashton. lady ashton is better known to this house than herman van rompuy. we'll get to know her even better in the hearings now. i would recommend: i would like to ask you to propose to herman van rompuy that he should voluntarily join the groups in this house, that he should make himself known. the belgians are very proud of him, i hear it from everywhere. why not then have a voluntary debate with the political groups of this house, so that we can have a better dialogue at the beginning of his term of office? that was the look back at last week. the next summit is imminent. i do not think, martin schulz, that we discuss copenhagen too little. we are not drawing consistent conclusions from our discussions. this parliament will be voting this week on a resolution which says everything that would be right for copenhagen if one trusts the un or science. but over time, europeans have increasingly moved away from these recommendations. my analysis of the core problem behind this is that climate protection is seen as a burden and that the opportunities that lie in a consistent climate policy are not recognized. another item on the agenda for the next summit is the lisbon strategy. the lisbon strategy has actually long had the task of promoting sustainable development. but we didn't make it. the different pillars of this lisbon strategy have always been weighted differently. the environment, social justice, sustainability have always been pushed to the side, to the detriment of old, in my view outdated, industrial, economic and even research priorities. if you are now planning to decide at the next summit that we will adopt the revised lisbon strategy in the spring, we will not have time to analyse the weaknesses of a lisbon strategy which, in my view, has failed. why have we plunged into the deepest economic crisis? why do we have so many social problems, labour market problems in the european union? we do not think it is a good idea to prepare the lisbon strategy, to carry out the revision without careful reflection, without self-criticism, without a genuine consultation process, as is being called for by the trade unions and also by the social platform, because this lisbon strategy is very important for all of us, for the union's perspective. finally, the stockholm programme. it is a good thing that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but my group feels that the balance between freedom and security is being thrown off. we do not agree with this development, and we are currently making this clear in our dealings with swift. it was a big mistake not to put swift on that agenda. you, mr barroso, are trying to pass this interim swift agreement by parliament, ignoring data protection concerns. this is a testament to the fact that the balance between freedom and security is not right at the moment.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we also welcome the two candidates on behalf of the gue/ngl group. we particularly welcome the fact that a woman has been elected. we expect the two candidates for high office to face not only substantive challenges but also a cooperative style, particularly vis-à-vis parliament. we expect the council to take a closer look at the social issues of the crisis and to draw the right conclusions. so far, billions have been given to the bankers, but little help has been given to the poor. martin schulz is right: the casino is back in business, but at the same time poverty - especially child poverty - and unemployment are increasing. the crisis has cost europe four million jobs. the commission reports that this figure may rise to seven million next year. we know that such estimates are often still below the real figures, e.g. 1.5 million people in germany are in short-time work. you can't keep that from people. but rising unemployment and poverty are the harbingers of ever greater inequality of opportunity. this has a profound effect on educational opportunities. we need to talk about that, too. the question that arises is whether the leaders of the member states and governments will find a way out of the crisis that combines the idea of european integration with social progress that people will actually experience. instead of exiting the cyclical programmes and forcing fiscal consolidation, a change of policy is needed. three points to make: firstly, we expect the council to take a position on the plans for the 2020 strategy, the strategy which is to replace the failed lisbon strategy. innovation and knowledge, combating exclusion, green economic strategies, digital europe - as a buzzword catalogue, that does not sound bad. but concrete proposals for implementation must urgently follow. secondly, the council must finally commit itself to strict control systems for the financial markets. i have a number of legitimate questions about how he can bring this into line with the existing treaties, since in some cases all restrictions on the free movement of capital and payments are prohibited and are not particularly desirable. so how you do it is of interest to us. thirdly, i would like to stress once again that the council must send a clear signal to copenhagen for a binding agreement on climate change. non-binding commitments have never led to the desired result.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is done, the treaty of lisbon enters into force. i would like to thank cecilia malmström, the swedish presidency and the whole team who have worked very hard on this. that's a great accomplishment. i would like to make a brief comment on two points which have been the subject of debate here. the president of the council. president barroso, you have just said that you want to work in tandem with herman van rompuy. i agree with that. cooperate with the council. but i should also like to make one thing clear: the president of the council is not accountable to any parliament, neither to the european parliament nor to any national parliament. that is to say, the democratically legitimized institution, the democratically legitimized president of europe is you as president of the commission. so, yes, we'll do it in tandem, but then you'll sit in the front and steer this vehicle. secondly, the council representative has just said that cathy ashton will take up both posts as high representative and vice-president of the commission on 1 december 2009. firstly, it is only an office high representative, vice-president of the commission and secondly, she cannot take it up fully without parliament's consent. the commission is therefore in a legal no-man's land between the end of nice and the beginning of lisbon. cathy ashton will not take up her full post until this parliament approves her at the end of january 2010. a final word on the culture of debate here. we should just listen to mr farage. if he and his people were to take over the government in the united kingdom, the british would appreciate the freedom of establishment in the european union, because they would then come en masse to france, germany, spain, italy and also to portugal, mr barroso!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. where are we before this summit in europe? some of the comments made sounded as if everything would be fine if we had just enough social democratic or liberal - yes, mr schulz - commissioners. i think that is a mistake, but it will be good if we agree on the great tasks facing europe. twenty years ago, we broke the iron curtain in europe, and i want to emphasize that it was the people, the citizens, and not the military, the governments or the intelligence services, who did it. i believe that we can only build europe together with the citizens in the future. second, we have to overcome more walls, including those in our minds. for example, many still believe that we can play freedom and security against each other, even though we know that freedom only succeeds if we protect it, but that this protection must not come at the expense of our basic rights and must not lead to a surveillance state example swift and others. some people believe that europe and democracy can be played off against each other. the only way to achieve this is through a democratic europe. some people believe that ecology and economics are still opposites. the only way to ensure lasting prosperity is to have an ecological economy. i want to conclude by saying that we are on the verge of stockholm, and if we do not take advantage of what is possible there now, at any cost - some are willing to spend hundreds of billions to protect the banks, but to be picky about the climate - if we do not act very quickly and consistently, then humanity, like me, as a speaker, is running out of time at this moment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was also present at that debate this morning. i didn't get the impression that you were unfair in any way or abused your office in any way. on the contrary ... on the contrary, i would like to note that you have listened with patience and respect to the way in which the chairman of this so-called group has presented himself here as a professional slanderer. that was the reality of mr farage's speech and nothing else! (applause from the centre)
chairman of the envi committee. mr president, mrs hassi is right. we can proceed as she suggested.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the interpreters asked for article 20 and not article 22, and it is difficult to do what you are saying. so i hope the interpreters are now translating the polish numbers correctly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. parliament is represented in copenhagen by an official delegation. they're coming, and for the first time, we don't have to rent an office in the city, but we're officially in the eu pavilion. that is good, we thank you for that, and that is why article 61 can be dropped. but the lisbon treaty not only requires parliament to be consulted on international agreements, it also requires it to give its consent. we are entering a new era and that is why we are asking under article 60 to be allowed to attend the eu coordination meetings and not to stand outside the door. we must be informed by the commission on an equal footing with the council of how the treaties are negotiated, and we ask that this be done starting with the kyoto agreement. that is the demand we make of the commission. perhaps commissioner reding can say something about that. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner. it is not the case that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but that it has been consulted on the matter. i do not know whether it is because the figures were not read correctly or were not translated correctly. but it said 33, then 30, then 43, so it was very unclear.
in writing. the fdp members of the european parliament abstained on the copenhagen resolution for the following reasons: the resolution contains statements on the financing of climate action in third countries without defining precise criteria or financing purposes. we think that is unacceptable to the taxpayer. we also believe that it is wrong to criticise the international civil aviation organisation (icao) in general terms. the icao is the right place to deal with aviation matters at international level. both this criticism and the statement about an alleged failure of icao negotiations are incorrect and inappropriate. the call for concrete designs of co2 trading systems for aviation is contrary to existing eu legislation and overburdens the eu's negotiating position for an international climate agreement with unrealistic demands.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution because it prejudges the fact that the eu is providing large amounts of funding from the outset, without waiting for the other partners. i can't answer to my constituents for putting their money where it's going. climate protection is an important objective, but the panic before the copenhagen climate summit is an outrage and not scientifically serious.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the stockholm programme. it is important that this parliament, as the representative of the european citizens, should propose a road map for justice and home affairs. and we got a good result! the treaty of lisbon also gives us certainty: in future, the european parliament will no longer be merely consultative in these policy areas, but will also be involved in decision-making. we've found a good balance between security and civil rights. the need for security among our people is constantly increasing. the question that must be answered is whether and, if so, to what extent civil rights and civil liberties may be restricted in favour of security measures. i think we've struck a good middle ground. but in order to ensure that this intermediate stage is actually incorporated into justice and home affairs policy, we are calling for more control rights for ourselves and for the national parliaments in the eu in the implementation of the stockholm programme. unfortunately, my call for police access to eurodac to be extended was not supported by the plenary. it would have been another useful tool in the fight against terrorism and crime. but my motion was successful, calling on the commission to put forward proposals to combat the abuse of asylum throughout europe: any abuse of asylum cuts the possibility of granting asylum to those who have a legitimate claim.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! commissioner, this may be the last enlargement debate with you. thank you very much for the many good debates we have had with you since 2004. a few remarks: i believe it is time that the difficulties created by the outside world in relation to croatia are quickly overcome so that we can quickly reach a decision with croatia next year, so that negotiations can be concluded and ratified. i believe that these bilateral issues, which are being raised by a number of other countries - including those relating to fyrom and greece - but also by measures which are being taken against serbia, which i consider to be a country of great importance for stability in the region, should be resolved soon. it must be made clear that each country must be judged on its own merits and that the promise made in thessaloniki, for example on the western balkans, will be kept. but each one is to be judged according to his ability, and accordingly the pace must be adjusted individually. but it must also be made clear that they are valid. i regret that the social democrats, the greens and others in the committee have refused to mention the copenhagen criteria. i hope that will be revised in plenary. this would be as much a false message to the candidate countries as it would be to omit the need for the european union itself to be able to take in refugees. the european perspective must be present in order to set in motion the internal reform processes. but the necessary conditions must also be met to avoid false expectations. for this reason, in the case of turkey, we must also ensure that the political conditions relating to freedom of expression, democracy, the rule of law and freedom of religion are a precondition for accession and that this cannot be lost in a compromise.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president-in-office, you have made a good speech here, clear and concise. the european union as a geopolitical stabilizing factor and enlargement policy as an instrument are all right. but i think it is neither intellectually nor politically satisfactory to pretend that there is no such conflict of objectives between the ever-larger union and the ever-closer union - a question to which we have not given a definitive answer. more size brings more weight, that's true, but it also brings more complexity. this has implications for our ability to act. we must therefore have a new dialogue on enlargement, as mr severin of the social democrats has proposed, namely, graduated membership, new forms of thinking to reconcile these two objectives, both of which are legitimate. we need institutional reforms. i cannot say in germany, for example, that i am in favour of thessaloniki, but that the successor states of yugoslavia will one day have more commissioners than all the founding members of the european union put together. it doesn't fit. we need honesty in enlargement policy, because that is how we will get the support of the citizens for this important policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i and many of my colleagues in the group have always seen and supported enlargement as one of the most important projects of the eu. for all our justified criticism of various aspects of its design, it is one of the most successful chapters in the eu's external development, and it is a complex, long-term task facing both the candidate countries and the eu itself. this has already been discussed in the house today. we must ask ourselves: are we ready for the further processes of enlargement? it was right and important, particularly in view of south-eastern europe and its long history of state and empire decline, to give the people of these countries, in a region that has been sorely tried, the opportunity to become members of the european union. the fact that some political forces in the eu member states have in the meantime backed away from this promise, under the pretext that strengthening the eu's identity and institutions is a priority over further eu accession, has not only increased mistrust in the candidate countries, but is also having a chilling effect on democratic opinion-building and the reform processes in the region.
i have to say, madam president, mr president of the council! i'm not going to tell you. i am not going to go into detail. the enlargement to include the western balkans has been a matter of resolve since thessaloniki. the inclusion of these countries, if they have met the conditions, is not an act of grace, as some people think, but a simple necessity, given their geographical position in the heart of the european union. their stability is a condition for ours, as we learned the hard way in the 1990s. all countries must of course meet the conditions of the copenhagen criteria and, as they were enemies, they must also maintain regional cooperation. but this also applies to the countries neighbouring these candidate countries. i expect slovenia and greece to help the applicant countries to move quickly and efficiently along this path. unfortunately, the country of bosnia and herzegovina is in a very, very difficult situation, and i do not think i can deal with that in a minute and a half, even though i am the rapporteur for that region. i'll save that for later. i would just like to say, mr president-in-office of the council and mr commissioner, that the negotiations down there should be conducted in such a way that they are conducted close to the people and not too much dictated from the outside. all the countries in the region have different lengths to go, and we must help them to cope. mr lambsdorff, the argument that the candidate countries have more commissioners than the founding members is a pathetic one. because it's not an argument, it's an argument for manslaughter. because this is a problem that can be solved. but the people down there can't be left out because you don't want to solve the problem.
the council has already taken a decision on this. i would like to speak as the head of the delegation for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and concentrate on that country. i would like to begin by thanking our commissioner, olli rehn, for his courage, because with his report, with his green light for this country, he has taken a bold step and thus also created momentum. we have a new government in athens, and that is why we have a situation now, a window of opportunity, where we can do something. i would ask the commissioner to take the matter under advisement. because if we raise expectations too high now - on friday this week there will be a meeting between papandreou and prime minister gruevski - then we may increase the pressure so much that the boiler bursts. we don't want to risk that. we must encourage all sides to continue along this path of friendship that has now been set. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr zoran thaler, for describing this path of the europeans in such a precise way. i wish you, olli, the best for your future in the commission. (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i have to say, madam president, i have a question for my colleague, mr chatzimarkakis, if he will allow me. i think that mrs pack obviously did not hear me say that we are clear on thessaloniki. i want to repeat this again. i would like to ask mr chatzimarkis what he thinks are the most urgent steps that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia must take now to make progress on the name dispute and to make the negotiations that are about to begin as successful as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for asking. i think both sides need to jump over their shadows, and we see on both sides a willingness to take a step forward. we now expect that there will be a lasting solution. that is why it is quite clear that on friday, and certainly in a five-minute conversation, a solution to the name issue is to be expected. that's not the problem. but the use of the name, the so-called scope, that is the big question, and it seems to take time for both sides. i am asking for a lasting solution, because otherwise we would have a short-term solution which might lead to disaster. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on it.
i have to say, madam president, we must take croatia into the european union next year, or we must conclude the accession negotiations and start the ratification process. croatia has been on the road to european union and freedom for 20 years. the swedish presidency has helped to remove these artificial barriers. croatia has now ratified the agreement with slovenia by a two-thirds majority, and we must do everything we can to ensure that slovenia also respects its obligations towards the european union. this 2010 target date is also important because the credibility of the european union itself is at stake. as regards macedonia, i hope that the swedish presidency will succeed in setting the stage for accession negotiations to begin next year, so that the bilateral problem that exists here too will finally be resolved. i hope that we can make some changes here to the text of the report, which is a little bit one-sided in its treatment of the macedonians and far too little in its treatment of their neighbours. everyone must contribute, including those in the european union. i think it is crucial that we fully involve kosovo in the thessaloniki process, and these are important passages in the albertini report. this country also needs a european perspective, and i would like to appeal to all the member states which have not yet done so to finally recognise kosovo so that we finally do not have any legal or technical difficulties here, so that kosovo can fully participate in the integration process. (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i have to say, madam president, i just want to answer briefly. i would like to quote my esteemed colleague mr cohn-bendit of the verts/ale group, who once said in this house: 'macedonia is macedonia is macedonia'. i fully agree with that. harassing a neighboring country has never worked.
madam president, firstly my group, the greens, would prefer not to put any date in for the accession of croatia. we think that experience has shown that that has not been a good idea in the past, whether croatia should join as soon as the criteria are fulfilled. secondly, mr brok, the copenhagen criteria are, of course, valid. they are there; we do not need to mention them time and time again. we are sticking to the agreements that the european union made on accession and to the copenhagen criteria. the aim of accession progress is the accession itself. when we are discussing turkey we should not forget the amazing progress that has also been made in turkey in areas where, a few years ago, we thought would not ever have been possible. this is the clear success of the accession process, which we should not forget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. violence against women is a terrible human rights crime, no matter what form it takes, whether it's forced marriage, beating, rape. i find the word "honor killing" particularly bad, because it's not honor killing at all. honor killing is a heinous crime! we must do everything we can to combat this. the lisbon treaty is about to be signed, and the charter of human rights will have a special status as an annex. the european union is therefore particularly committed to doing everything possible to combat this violence. it has been mentioned that rape can be used as a weapon in war. it was also pointed out that in the congo, where this has been happening in the worst form for years, rapists do not stop even before small children and elderly women. we have many programs. commissioner ferrero-waldner pointed out that she had spoken to women in government around the world. it's not enough, apparently. it's not just a women's problem, it's a problem for all people in the world. we must do everything we can to improve things here from the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. minister! - i'm not sure. operation atalanta is a successful eu contribution to security in the horn of africa region and we should continue it. the eu's shared responsibility is broader. this includes not ignoring cases where, for example, illegal toxic waste exports or illegal fishing are harmful to somali interests, and for this reason these should be pursued with all the necessary consequences. the resolution we are voting on tomorrow is going down two wrong paths, and we do not agree with them: it is wrong to want to change the atalanta mandate now, neither in terms of the extension of the zone of operation nor in terms of the attempt by colleagues in this house to extend the mandate to fisheries. we want to continue the mandate as it is. secondly, it is highly questionable to set up now a poorly reasoned esdp training mission, whose possible contribution to state building in somalia has not been demonstrated at all. the principle should be: careful instead of hurrying!
i have to say, madam president, somalia is certainly a country in a permanent state of emergency, having been without a government for almost 20 years. we as the eu must help to change this situation. we therefore support the work of the commission, but are very sceptical about the new esdp mission and the plan to train 2 000 soldiers for the transitional government in somalia. what is the real purpose of this mission? what is the overall political approach to somalia? where is the added value to the current american and french training projects? we don't see how this mission can help build the state. what is the legitimacy of this transitional government? why do we support her and think the soldiers will help her? how do we prevent soldiers, once trained, from turning to warlords? we feel that there are far too many questions about this mission to begin to really plan for it now. first of all, i do not see the added value that the eu can bring and i believe that the funds are better spent on other projects that the commission is already running.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. i thank all those who have contributed to the resolution. secondhand smoke is a huge problem, especially for children. the president of the german pediatric association once said that smoking in the presence of children is deliberate bodily harm. i would not be so drastic, but we must act. i very much welcome the laws that are being implemented in ireland, italy and other countries. i find the law and practice in germany shameful from a health policy point of view. we have much to learn from other european countries. it is not, however, as easy as it is described in paragraphs 2, 10 and 13 of this resolution. we have limited competence at european level. it might be politically counterproductive to legislate here. we can only protect workers, which means that we cannot protect children in particular if we act at european level. but this is particularly necessary at the moment. i therefore ask you to support the epp amendments on this subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is now a good compromise in the council, and i therefore - subject to discussion in my group - personally strongly advocate that we leave paragraph 9 as it is. it is a good compromise and people would not understand it if we continued to pay such subsidies as we have been doing. we need this change and we should support it.
i have to say, madam president, we want clear and workable rules for non-smoking protection throughout europe. in my view, however, 'throughout europe' does not necessarily mean 'from europe'. many member states already have comprehensive laws to protect non-smokers, and others are in the process of introducing such laws. why do some colleagues now say: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the european union has no competence in health policy or whether we have to do it by way of occupational safety and health? i think that it is up to the member states to decide what regulations they adopt to protect non-smokers. it makes sense, because they are closer to the problems, to the questions on the ground, and i do not understand why the non-smoking protection in lapland and andalusia has to be uniformly prescribed in every detail from brussels. where is the cross-border link? we are also facing our own frontiers in brussels. i am particularly concerned about the protection of children and young people. we need a comprehensive protection in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of tobacco smoking, and it is not the commission's intention to take any action to combat it. i therefore ask for support for the epp's amendments nos 2 and 13.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this important debate. it is extremely positive that we are all so committed to achieving success in the area of smoke-free environments. i understand that we have many common positions. i regret once again that the european parliament has not had time to deliver its opinion, but the presidency will take account of the european parliament's resolution. on the issue of smoking in the workplace, the commission has launched a consultation of social partners at eu level. they have been asked for their views on the current regulatory framework and any future legislative initiatives in this area. the draft recommendation states that exposure to secondhand smoke is particularly dangerous for children and young people and may increase the risk of them starting to smoke themselves. the draft recommendation on smoke-free environments calls on the commission to report on the implementation, effectiveness and impact of the various measures on the basis of information provided by the member states. the commission report will also provide an appropriate opportunity to return to this issue. the issue of tobacco control will continue to occupy a prominent place on the agenda for the coming year. we shall then begin preparations for the fourth conference of the parties to the framework convention on tobacco control. the conference will be held in punta del este, uruguay, from 15 to 20 november 2010. i am sure that at that stage the council will be willing to discuss this matter with the european parliament again.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is often well-meaning ideas that have problematic effects. this will leave no room for doubt that non-smokers need to be protected in every way. the compromise resolution on a smoke-free environment, which is to be voted on thursday, goes far beyond the protection of non-smokers. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle which is not explicitly mentioned in the draft resolution. the proposal instead calls for strict and legally binding regulations at eu level. it is a good thing that the commission has taken the initiative in this area, and i hope that the commission will take the initiative in this area. we all want a europe that is closer to the people. the principle of subsidiarity is the key to this. member states or, as in germany, the länder, must themselves lead the discussion on non-smoking protection. only in this way can solutions be found which are in keeping with the traditions and culture of the country and which are so close to the people. for these reasons i ask you to vote against the motion for a resolution as it stands on thursday.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that in times of crisis, minimum standards worldwide protect workers from inhumane working conditions. the eu always calls for the core international standards of the ilo in its sunday speeches or vis-à-vis third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat discrimination. but unfortunately, in the european union, it remains with these sunday speeches. the eu member states and the eu itself ignore the ilo conventions; they do not ratify them, they do not implement them. you're avoiding your responsibilities. the right to strike, for example, was abolished by the court of justice of the european union and applauded by the commission. for example, the convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers: only 3 out of 27 member states have ratified it. this is a scandal! 90 years after the founding of the ilo, that has to change.
member of the commission. − madam president, the world food summit last week in rome is the latest in a series of high-level events organised this year where food security and agriculture have featured prominently: in january in madrid, in july in l’aquila, in september in new york and pittsburgh, as well as at the meeting of the committee on world food security last month. the underlying premise of all these events has been the realisation that we are failing in the fight against world hunger. over one billion people in the world presently do not meet their daily basic nutritional needs, and the situation is threatening to get worse in many developing countries, owing also to the effects of climate change, which is posing additional challenges to these countries’ capacity to become food secure. the world summit on food security represented an opportunity to sustain the political momentum that has been building up in past months. once more, world food security has been in the spotlight. however, the time for discussion is over; now it is time to deliver. for the european commission, the summit was a useful event for three reasons. first, there was the pledge to renew our efforts to achieve the first millennium development goal of halving hunger by 2015. in my view that target is still valid, and we should strive to reach it – particularly in those countries and regions where progress towards its achievement has been very limited, for example in africa. second, the promise to improve international coordination and the governance of food security through a reformed committee on world food security, which would become a central component of the global partnership for agriculture, food security and nutrition. the european commission has actively encouraged this reform and is assisting in providing core funding for it. this is, in my view, a very important step, which will pave the way for a global governance system of food security based on sound scientific advice but one also more open to key actors in the public and private sector and non-governmental organisations. these actors are crucial to making the new system more effective than the current one. third, the promise to reverse the downward trend in domestic and international funding for agriculture, food security and rural development. if we want to meet the first millennium development goal of halving hunger by 2015, the commitments taken to increase oda must be fulfilled – in particular by those countries which have committed themselves to reaching the target of 0.7% of gross national income. some have criticised the final declaration for not setting more precise official development assistance targets for agriculture and food security, but we must recall that significant financial pledges had already been made at the g8 summit in l’aquila. the priority now is to honour them. with strong support from the european parliament, the commission has successfully mobilised the eur 1 billion food facility, of which 85% is already committed for the period 2009-2011. however, we need more and sustained assistance over time. in order to be accountable for our pledges we need a global pecking system of commitments, but we also have to develop monitoring mechanisms, specific indicators and benchmarks which can be used to report on the outcomes and impacts of investments. however – and let me say this loud and clear – even the most substantial commitment by donors will be worthless if governments in developing countries fail to translate their own commitments into better agricultural policies, strategies and investments. in discussing food security, we should also be careful about terminology, and distinguish food security from food sovereignty and food self-sufficiency. efforts to achieve production around the world are not enough in their own right. what counts is that people should have sustained access to food, which is basically a poverty question. food trade – regional as well as global – plays an important part in enhancing access to food by providing farmers with an income and by allowing consumers access to cheaper food. self-sufficiency in food or autarchy could be a very costly strategy and will not be necessary when markets and trade work well. therefore, concluding the doha round with a balanced and comprehensive outcome would be a major step ahead. we should also not forget that global food security is a very complex and multifaceted problem which requires a holistic approach. in this area the european union has made enormous progress in the past decade and progress will continue to be ensured through the policy coherence for development (pcd) process. the various reforms of the eu common agricultural policy have strongly reduced export refunds and the vast majority of support for farmers in the eu is recognised as being ‘non-trade distorting’ by the wto. moreover with the everything but arms arrangement, market access to the eu is free for the least developed countries, and the provisions of the economic partnership agreements (epas) show an understanding of problems faced by many of the acp countries in guaranteeing food security to their citizens. we have therefore have come a very long way in the eu, in enhancing policy coherence for development and thereby creating improved food security conditions for developing countries. other countries and regions should do the same. to conclude, the fao summit has underscored that if we want to keep to our objective of halving hunger by 2015, then we should step up oda and increase oda and private investments in agriculture and we should improve global governance of the agricultural sector.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commissioner! it is important for us in the european parliament to address the issue of hunger in the world. we cannot accept without comment that the number of people suffering from hunger - many of them children - is increasing. i was first elected to parliament 20 years ago, and i remember very well that international organizations like the world bank, fao, un and even the wto made declarations of intent that in the next 20 years, hunger in the world would be halved. what happened? what happened? hunger has not been halved, hunger has increased. one billion people go hungry every day! the opposite of what is announced in declarations of intent has happened. the causes of this are very diverse. there are countries where incompetent governments - as in zimbabwe - have turned the grain storehouse of africa into a famine zone. a communist ruler has made it so that people in this rich country are starving, and we are silent about it. but we're all complicit. we debate for weeks, even for years, about the climate in a hundred years. the people who are hungry today and tomorrow don't care about the climate in a hundred years, they want to have something to eat tomorrow! we don't have the answers. without wanting to neglect the future, it is a matter of humanity that we take care of the people who are hungry today. and, commissioner, to say that we will halve hunger by 2050 is almost a mockery. we must succeed as a world community in reducing the number of people who suffer from hunger much faster. we're taking weapons to every corner of the world, and apparently we're not taking food. this is a failure of the world community, and i want to denounce it here, and we must find answers here that are different from the answers we are giving today.
madam president, article 208 of the lisbon treaty states that the main aim of european union development policy is poverty reduction and eradication. poverty is also the main reason for hunger. article 208 also states that the union shall take account of these objectives in other policies that might affect developing countries. however, with export subsidies the eu is destroying markets in developing countries, therefore causing poverty and hunger. if we want our development assistance to be effective, we need to make sure that it is not hampered by other policies. otherwise, we will not manage to meet the millennium development goals. we should keep that in mind when we review and reform policies such as the common agricultural policy and fisheries policies. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
madam president, of course the frozen chicken example that you all well know is already a bit old, but still now, for example, tomatoes that are highly subsidised in the european union make it to african markets, are cheaper than the local products and therefore destroy jobs and increase poverty. so that is still a common phenomenon and i think we have to work on that.
i have to say, madam president, adequate food is a human right, and hunger is a crime against humanity. i also think that if mankind has enough technical and scientific knowledge, no one in the world would have to suffer from hunger. of course, money is needed to combat world hunger. but it is not just about money, the following conditions must be met: firstly, the establishment of a stable democratic structure in the developing countries; secondly, the fight against corruption; thirdly, the establishment of an adapted agriculture in the developing countries; and then investment in agriculture. and it is precisely the first three points that are often not discussed enough, and very often a lot of money is lost in the countries, ends up in the wrong hands and ends up in corruption.
i have to say, madam president, - i'm not sure. i am grateful to mrs herranz garcía for bringing this matter to parliament today. what we are discussing here is a basic discussion in the food sector. i'm not here to put brazil or any other country on the spot. the basic question is: do we need these strict conditions for european agricultural production in the interests of consumer protection? if the answer to this question is yes, then consumer protection is indivisible. if restrictions are necessary, then the same rules must apply to imports as to our farmers. the commission cannot then allow imports from countries where these conditions are not met. then we must not allow cattle farmers in europe to be punished because there is not a single ear tag in the entire herd of cattle and allow imports from herds of cattle where there is not a single ear tag! we can't have that. if traceability is so important for consumer protection, then the traceability of production must also be ensured for imports. if that is not guaranteed, it is harassment to ask our farmers to do so. i have the impression that the commission's import officials are using two different standards here. i am not concerned, as i have already said, with the closure of europe, but with fair competition for our farmers in europe, so that we can continue to feed half a billion people in the future. and i can assure you, commissioner, that you will pass this on to your successor. parliament will continue to put its finger in that wound. we will not give up until we have created a level playing field and we have good arguments here which we will be making again and again to ensure that food security is guaranteed here in europe in the future.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. the agricultural experts in parliament have made a very simple demand, saying that they want nothing more and nothing less than equal conditions for production in the country - that is, in the european union - as for imports. i have followed with interest the commissioner's statement that it took her more than ten minutes to explain to us that this is not quite the case. your answer could have been shorter. you could have simply said: 'yes, parliament is right, and i will implement and take that into account in the future.' what my group is calling for - and this is now also what parliament is calling for - has nothing to do with trade restrictions, but quite the opposite: it is the crucial prerequisite for fair world trade and for the mutual exchange of goods. what we want is fair play in the market economy within the eu and abroad, no more, no less, and we will demand that from the commission today and in the future, you can count on that.
the next item is the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report.
president of the court of auditors. − mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to have the opportunity to take part in your debate today about the annual report of the european court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the 2008 financial year, which i have already presented to you, mr president, and to the committee on budgetary control on 10 november. we have four key messages in this year’s annual report. first, the court gives an unqualified opinion on the accounts for the second year running. it concludes that the accounts present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position, results and cash-flows of the european union at the year’s end. in other words, the final accounts for 2008 present a true and fair view, although due attention should be paid to addressing weaknesses in the systems of a number of directorates-general of the commission. as regards the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, the second key message is that there has been an overall decrease in the level of irregularity in recent years. but the level of irregularity remains too high in some areas. as in previous years, for 2008 the court gives an unqualified opinion on revenue and on commitments. the picture for payments however continues to be mixed. for administrative and other expenditure, the court gives an unqualified opinion as in previous years. the court also gives an unqualified opinion on education and citizenship, estimating that the error rate has fallen below 2%. this result is mainly due to a high proportion of advance payments in 2008, which have a lower risk of error than interim and final payments. systems in this area continue, however, to be assessed as only partially effective. for agriculture and natural resources, the court concludes that, except for rural development, payments were in all material respects legal and regular. this is the first time the court gives a qualified opinion and not an adverse one. the overall error rate for this policy group is under 2%, a decrease with respect to previous years. deficiencies in supervisory and control systems related to rural development contributed significantly to the court’s overall assessment of systems as only partially effective. the court also gives a qualified opinion to the policy group economic and financial affairs due to errors found in transactions relating to the sixth framework programme for research and technological development. for the policy groups cohesion, research, energy and transport and external aid, development and enlargement, the court continues to give adverse opinions concluding that they are affected by material error, although to different levels. cohesion remains the area must affected by error. the court estimates that at least 11% of the total of eur 24.8 billion reimbursed during 2008 in respect of the 2000-2006 programming period should not have been reimbursed. the commission has claimed that the correction and recovery mechanisms mitigate the effects of the errors. however, the court considers that member states do not provide sufficiently complete and reliable information on financial corrections to support this claim. and the court found cases of member states replacing ineligible expenditure rejected by the commission with new expenditure which was also ineligible. as regards the 2007-2013 programming period almost all payments are pre-financing, for which there are relatively few conditions. it is therefore too early to say whether changes to rules or systems have reduced the level of errors. however, delays in approving member states’ systems descriptions, compliance assessments and audit strategies have slowed budgetary implementation and may increase the risk that control systems do not prevent or detect errors in the start-up phase. although there continues to be a material level of error in research, energy and transport, remedial measures taken by the commission have helped to reduce it. nevertheless, legal requirements remain complex and control systems continue to be only partially effective. payments for external aid, development and enlargement also continue to be materially affected by errors, with weaknesses in systems for external aid and development assistance mainly at the level of the implementing bodies and delegations. overall, error rates appear to be decreasing but legal frameworks continue to be complex and problems remain in some control systems. reducing the level of irregular payments further will therefore require the continuing improvement of supervisory and control systems and, where appropriate, the simplification of rules and regulations. the third key message of the annual report is that the court’s recommendations from previous years on improving supervisory and control systems continue to be valid because the relevant measures are part of an ongoing process where it will take time before they can be deemed to be effective. the priority remains to address the specific weaknesses the court has found in the areas where the most problems have been detected, many of which i have just outlined. particular attention should also continue to be paid to improving the financial correction and recovery mechanisms in anticipation of the closure of the 2000-2006 programming period. in addition, the commission should continue to monitor the effectiveness of systems and identify where more could be achieved from existing expenditure controls, or where it would be appropriate to consider revising the programmes or schemes involved. in the context of such revisions, the legislative authorities and the commission should consider trying to set a level of residual risk of irregularity to be achieved by the system, that is the tolerable risk of error, rather than specifying the number of checks to be undertaken, as is the case now. but there is a limit to the reduction of the level of irregularity that can be achieved by improving the effectiveness of supervisory and control systems. this brings me to the fourth and last key message of this annual report. simplification remains a priority if further significant and sustainable reductions in the level of irregular payments are to be achieved. the areas where the court finds too high levels of errors are those where there are complicated and unclear legal requirements, such as eligibility rules. an example of where serious efforts have already been made to simplify the expenditure schemes is agriculture, the main area of improvement found by the court. the court also maintains the view that well-designed rules and regulations which are clear to interpret and simple to apply not only decrease the risk of error but can also reduce the costs of controls. however, simplification needs to be applied with caution in order to find the right balance between simplification and establishment of policy objectives, avoiding unintended side-effects such as less focused expenditure. in addition, as the court has also emphasised, simplification should be applied alongside the principles of clarity of objectives, realism, transparency and accountability when revising or reforming the arrangements for european union spending. the intended proposals for a revision of the financial regulation, a new financial framework and a reformed budget will provide opportunities for doing so during the mandate of the new commission. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty will also bring changes to the management of european union funds and the scrutiny of their use, strengthening the role of this parliament. these changes will have important implications for the court’s work and should serve to reinforce accountability and transparency, thereby contributing to building the confidence and trust of the citizens in the european union institutions. mr president, honourable members, this is an important moment of renewal for the european union, and the intended reforms provide a great opportunity for further improving the financial management of the european union. at times of renewal and reform it is also important, however, to remember the lessons of the past. i believe the court plays a vital role in such circumstances by providing reports and opinions that not only identify existing problems but also make recommendations for the future. the court therefore looks forward to continuing to work together with its partner institutions to make the most of the current opportunities for further improving the european union’s financial management.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the court’s annual report for 2008. i have already had the opportunity to thank the court for the very good cooperation enjoyed again this year. we have had a very fruitful dialogue and the report is very constructive. as you have just heard president caldeira state, the level of irregularity has decreased overall in recent years. things really started to improve five years ago, and, since 2004, the ‘red area’ where the court finds the most errors and for which it gives a ‘red card’ has been reduced by half. for 2008, the report shows a completely clean opinion on the accounts for the second year in a row, as a result of the major achievement of the thorough reform and transition to accrual accounting. secondly, for the first time, agriculture, taken as a whole, has now become ‘clean and green’. this can certainly be attributed to the substantial simplification efforts of recent years. thirdly, the policy group entitled ‘education and citizenship’ has also become green. for research in general, things are improving and the court points out that irregularities are essentially linked to sixth framework programme, which allows hope that the improved and simplified seventh framework programme rules will bring a better result. again, as last year, the court has found no red light for the management and control systems. moreover, all annual activity reports by commission services are deemed by the court to give reasonable assurance, with or without qualifications, that internal control systems ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. this said, the report also clearly charts the work that still needs to be done. the ‘red area’ is now about 30%, corresponding to cohesion spending, which is the one area the court has still not found significant progress in the level of irregularities. this was perhaps to be expected, given that in 2008 the court did not audit payments made under the improved systems set up for the new 2007-2013 programming period. in this regard, the commission notes that the court’s findings on cohesion largely coincide with our own general assessment. for the structural funds, the commission had reservations in 2008 because of deficiencies in the control systems for belgium, germany, italy, spain, bulgaria, the united kingdom, france, poland and luxembourg. the commission is not shy regarding transparency as to where the systemic problems lie. the names of these member states were published back in june in the commission’s synthesis report. the court also reminds us of the essential role of complete and reliable information from all member states on financial corrections. we need this to prove that multiannual control systems work and to mitigate the effects of the errors detected. the court further recommends that the commission should continue to strive to gain assurance from the annual summaries of all member states, as well as from voluntary initiatives by certain member states, in the form of national declarations, or by supreme audit institutions. the commission agrees that we obviously need to be able to count on quality inputs from member states. we see improvements, but we are also considering strengthening the legal base to accelerate the process. finally, the court emphasises the importance of clear objectives, transparent and easy-to-understand rules, and effective supervision. this reduces the risk of error and the costs of control. however, it is not something that can be achieved from one day to the next, and of course the upcoming reviews of the budget, the financial framework and the financial regulation present opportunities not to be missed. what we need to do now is to improve assurances obtained from member states for structural funds; strive for more simplification, which increasingly will require changes to the legislation governing the various programmes. the revision of the financial regulation is currently under consultation, and the commission will make proposals in spring 2010. we also need to define together an acceptable ratio between costs and risk – the so-called ‘tolerable risk of error’. the european parliament has in the past strongly supported the commission’s efforts to achieve a positive statement of assurance. now that our efforts are becoming measurable, i hope i can count on its continuing backing to move forward. the 2008 discharge procedure starts in the last days of this commission and is expected to conclude in the early months of the next commission. even though it concerns last year’s budget, let us make it a forward-looking procedure.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not mr president of the court of auditors! i'm not going to tell you. today is a day of success for the court, but also for the committee on budgetary control and for the commission, especially for you, mr commissioner kallas. you have an impressive record of success, and not every one of your colleagues can say that about themselves. we have seen a really significant improvement in budgetary and financial management in recent years, and this improvement is also due to the court's advisory capacity. i would therefore like to thank the court of auditors very much, also for the increasingly clear interpretation of its report. the traffic light system is a good thing because it sends out strong messages. the traffic light system has given rise to the ambition of all concerned. i would also like to thank the relevant commission departments, because they have all done a good job and have recognised that something has to be done about these things. the budget is still 31% in the red. we shall certainly be concentrating on this in the years to come. we have areas which are better placed according to the court of auditors' classification, such as external aid. but we also know that external aid is better off only because, for example, budgetary aid is completely uncontrollable and because the use of funds - through the united nations, for example - is worthy of complaints to the director-general responsible, but not even a reserve in his annual report. we will focus on the forthcoming discharge in 2008 for the structural funds and external aid. we have over 5 000 posts in the delegations in external aid and over 2 000 posts in dg relex and in the development aid area in brussels. that's a nice little bit of material for the discussion with the new foreign affairs commissioner. we have made good progress on the structural funds, on name and shame, but we are also sure that this journey is not yet over. we must address the problems where they are. you have mentioned some of our member states, and i believe that the commission must significantly step up its activities for our last two members, romania and bulgaria, otherwise we will have permanent problems there. the commission's lack of strategy for these two countries is a cause for concern. they need more support, otherwise the eu risks ceasing to exist as a community of law. i would like to congratulate you and tell you that you can count on the solidarity and very constructive cooperation of the epp group in the budget discharge procedure. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i see light and shadow in the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report on the management of the eu budget, and i would first like to thank the court for making the report clearer, bolder and more political and easier for us to understand. i see light in the overall budgetary management. this has improved in contrast to recent years. this is mainly due to the improved management of the agricultural and natural resources sector, the focus of concern in recent years. for the first time, mr caldeira, you do not express a negative opinion in your report, which is good news. the report highlights that wherever the eu itself controls and manages the funds, they are managed in a fair manner. whether it's efficient is another question. i would like to congratulate mr kallas on this. it is to your credit, and to your tenure, that there has been this really visible improvement. congratulations to you! the member states are now called upon to improve their control systems. if the eu's budgetary management is subject to criticism, it is not at eu level - as we have just seen - but at the level of the member states. and that's where the shadow is. the cohesion policy, for example, which is implemented by the member states and which accounts for about one third of the budget, is the big worry today. you say 11% is flawed, and the colleague from the non-attached said that's 4 billion. no, it's more than 2.5 billion euros, where you clearly say: it's tax money that should never have been spent. we must say this clearly and we must control this clearly. the result is that the european commission must continue to put pressure on the member states, and we will support you in this, mr kallas. we must do the naming and shaming, we must denounce the wasteful states, which still exist, and say so clearly. overall, you conclude that the rules need to be simplified. we want to support you in this, and we have one more thing to add: not only regularity but also efficiency must be given greater prominence if tax money is to be spent correctly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. i would refer to chapter 7 of the court of auditors' report, which deals with research, energy and transport. first of all, i am extremely grateful to the court of auditors for its thorough work. i must say in this chapter that the court of auditors cannot give a good grade in its annual report for this area. this is an area where more than 9 billion euros are spent. the court of auditors estimates the error rate at between 2% and 5%, which means that between eur 180 and 450 million has been wrongly spent according to this calculation. if the court of auditors then comes to the conclusion that it is 'partially effective', then for me, translated into school grades, that is at best a minus four. it seems strange to me that the commission does not feel it necessary to comment on this. i take that as an eloquent silence. in its recommendation, the court of auditors says that the commission should continue to simplify the financing rules. i agree with that. the committee responsible has discussed this in a similar way. what i do not agree with is that the commission's opinion on the court of auditors' recommendation is the exact opposite of that recommendation. the court of auditors recommends that this objective of simplification be combined with the objective of cost-effective control, sufficient to ensure that the money is spent properly. the commission, on the other hand, says that it wants to be cost-effective and suggests that there are tolerable risks of error, which are calculated in advance. this is not a sensible way to spend taxpayers' money! the commission should reconsider this and this parliament should support the court of auditors in its critical work.
mr president, mr kallas, mr caldeira, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank you, mr president caldeira, for your introduction and you and the members of the court of auditors for your report. parliament will examine these indications carefully and act on them in the coming months. i was pleased to see that the hitherto unacceptable error rate in the common agricultural policy had been reduced. however, after reading the court of auditors' report, i have the impression that a very large proportion of the remaining errors seem to be the responsibility of one member state, namely romania. it seems that the training of staff and the correct implementation of control systems will have to be given even more importance in the new member states in the future, preferably before accession. another cause for concern is the european structural funds, which many colleagues have mentioned. although the number of incorrect payments has decreased compared with the previous year, there are still major difficulties in the correct handling of the funds. to the europe-skeptic sections of the house: it is 11% of total reimbursement and not 11% of the budget, that is 2.7 billion and not 5 billion. that's still 2.7 billion too many, but for the sake of fairness, we should be exact. these errors are mainly due to over-refunds and misuse of funds. for example, when esf funds are used to pay an administrative staff's salary or when erdf funds are used to purchase land, there is a lack of information on the correct use of funds or on the willingness or ability of member states to manage these funds correctly. but maybe it's all true. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the member states are invited to intensify their monitoring of the application already at national level. it is clear that any waste and any mistake in the handling of taxpayers' money is too much. but if we are fair to the eu and to this report from the european court of auditors, we will find little cause for offense. but it offers many starting points for our work to make europe a little better and more efficient every day. we will therefore be making the discharge process for the european commission more consistent.
mr president, commissioner, president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to begin by thanking mr caldeira and his team. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also had a little déjà vu experience, because as far as i can see, the council is once again shining through its absence, just as it did last year. i am stressing this point with such criticism because the council, as one of our important community institutions, cannot and should not remain outside this debate. we rightly expect control and transparency from all the member states, but also from our own institutions, and the council is also partly responsible for what happens or does not happen in the member states. the council's budget is not, of course, as affected by irregularities as the agricultural sector, but we will still have problems with the law on procurement, with late payment or with the due date, with repeated over-estimates. we shall discuss all this with the council in the coming weeks. mistakes are not the same as fraud, that's right, and the recalls are a good tool. another good instrument is naming and shaming in agricultural policy, which has even proved successful in bavaria and germany. i think we should continue to use this, and it has been shown that the member states and the companies concerned are also responding. we expect a willingness to dialogue with the swedish presidency in the coming days and also ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. however, since the cohesion fund is always in the foreground - and rightly so, certainly, because of the size of its budget - i must draw attention to a sector which, although it spent only eur 2.7 billion in 2008, is still facing considerable problems. the european court of auditors - and i would like to thank it very much - has indeed achieved a half-masterpiece in that it has succeeded in bringing transparency into the fragmented administration of development aid - i do not want to say that it lacks a consistent principle and transparent structures - but it is having considerable problems in bringing transparency into it and in clearly identifying the problems which still exist. there are improvements, for example in the payment of projects, but there are still cases where some projects cannot even be audited because there is no documentation, let alone any documentation or any means of verification. the budgetary aid problem is particularly problematic because it is ultimately impossible to control and understand where the money is going and what it is being used for. i think that we should definitely reconsider whether we should not finally integrate the european development fund into the general budget for reasons of transparency and also for reasons of traceability and controllability, so that we can then link and coordinate it with the other areas of development aid, foreign policy, neighbourhood policy and other policies which fall within the same areas, in order to obtain a truly transparent and complete overview. this is my proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when i was in school, the teachers often said: "trust is good, control is better". (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to ask you if you also noticed that in this important debate, mr martin, who has been giving us all advice, entered the chamber at 10 a.m., spoke at 10.09 a.m. and left the chamber at 10.12 a.m.
i can think of two rules of thumb from my youth. i was once taught this: if someone speaks to you, let him finish. if you ask a question, at least wait for the answer. it would have been nice, therefore, if he had stayed in the house and followed the debate in parliament. that's my opinion. the court's audits and suggestions for improvement make a significant contribution to a better and more economical use of eu funds. as an agricultural politician, i am particularly pleased that the use of funds in the agricultural sector was positively assessed and that on average no significant errors were detected. but on average, and that's where the problem lies, in agriculture, there's a saying: on average, the lake was half a meter deep, and yet the cow drowned. this means that when the average is right, when the vast majority of countries are able to implement the administrative rules properly, then we have to deal with the outliers or the bad guys. we have to name the horse and rider. mr president, do not let this go unanswered and please be more specific. parliament will support you on this point. the battle for the error rate in rural areas is somewhat different. although slightly lower than in the previous year, it is still substantially higher than agricultural expenditure. but i have to say that a lot of the problems we see are due to misapplication and misunderstanding of the complex eu rules and do not necessarily mean that money has to be wasted. we are also jointly called upon to improve the rules, to change eu rules so that member states can apply them more easily.
deputy writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. the commissioner is right. i am not going to go into detail. you all know google, the search engine of the internet. you're probably also familiar with the new google book project, which has been the talk of the town for a few months now. the book project is google's way of scanning books from libraries and putting them online, so that readers can access as many books as possible quickly and easily. from the perspective of the readers and the internet users, it's actually a wonderful idea. but what does that mean for the writers, for the creatives, for the artists, for the publishers? how are they involved in the publication of their work on the net? these are questions which we shall have to deal with intensively over the next few months. you may know that publishers and authors in the united states have sued google for scanning and publishing it online. the dispute is now, to my knowledge, settled, as the plaintiffs have reached an out-of-court settlement with google. but the questions are still there, and it's not just the google situation, but there will be similar cases, so we just have to address the questions in time. does copyright need to be adapted in the digital age? do we need to change structures? i am thinking in particular of the role of collecting societies, which we have already discussed in this parliament on many occasions. are there new monopolies being created on the net? how do we respond to this? how does this change the structure of our rural areas, for example in relation to our regional bookstores? what interests are at odds, and how can a proper balance be found? writers and publishers want to be paid for their work. this is of course also true when they post their work on the internet. libraries want to put their archives online, and they want to do it without having to sign a license agreement with each individual rights holder. and the interests of consumers are clear. there is a great deal of interest in the ability to access content quickly and easily over the internet. we are not yet in a position to discuss any possible solutions, but we have to ask ourselves many questions, and that is the purpose of our written request from the legal affairs committee to the commission. in order to clarify copyright issues, do we need to differentiate between, for example, content and, if so, how could this be done? the commission is probably going in that direction by first looking at the situation of library holdings. is there going to be mass digitisation in the future, or is our existing licensing system sufficient to deal with the problem? how could rights clearing be simplified in the age of the internet? we must also ask ourselves again about copyright. you know that copyright is first and foremost national law: is it still relevant today? how should we deal with orphaned works in the future, that is, works whose copyright holders cannot be identified or traced? should we not also distinguish between literary works and scientific-academic works? a novelist, for example, must live by publishing his works, but when a scientist puts his work online, he is primarily interested in making a name for himself in research and is less dependent on remuneration. so there are a lot of questions that we have to ask ourselves, and i'm very happy to be able to have this discussion with you. i would like to make one last important point, which is again the subject of collecting societies. if you look at how easy it is to download music from the internet today, you go to the itunes platform and buy your music for 20, 30, 40, 50 cents. what does this mean for the collecting societies? do we even need them today? i would be glad if the commission would shed some light on the situation. we have been asking the commission for years to look into collecting societies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm interested in what the commission is planning, and the last point: if you look at a platform like google, which makes everything freely available, then a monopoly is created on the web. again, we need to think about how to deal with this so that we don't end up with just one provider deciding on the terms of access to content on the web. i look forward to debating with you in the coming weeks and months and to hearing the commission's response to our first request from the legal affairs committee.
madam president, i am responsible for the new report on europeana, and i am convinced that we have to find a very good balance to respect, on the one hand, intellectual property rights and, on the other hand, to give easy access to all our users. that means we need very clear definitions on how to reform copyright, and we therefore need the work done by the commission on which sort of european fair use we want and clear definitions on what are orphan works. i would like to find out from the commission whether, if we really do not want to fall behind the united states, we should finance the digitisation of european works of art and fund europeana to a greater extent from the new lisbon strategy. otherwise we will leave it to google, and that would not be the best solution to avoid the monopoly structure we already have.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, i am not going to go into detail. i also voted no because i believe that turkey must meet all the criteria before we can make such a positive statement here. i would like to point out first of all that the border dispute between cyprus and turkey, which has not been settled this year, and the illegal occupation of cyprus have not yet been brought to an end. but it was not a vote against the other candidates. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner for his excellent report.
- i'm not going to. the rules are that we work through one topic at a time. we were just on the subject of 'eliminating violence against women' and now we come to the subject of 'a political solution to piracy off the coast of somalia'. one by one!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to comment on two aspects of the smoke-free environment. i voted for the member states to be given responsibility for this because we have the idea of subsidiarity and we have no responsibility. as much as i am in favour of a smoke-free environment, i am in favour of playing by the rules in this case. the second aspect is that i find it annoying that the european union is subsidising tobacco farming. this will pass, and i voted for it too, because i cannot reconcile it with the other consideration of reducing smoking altogether. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. the csu group wants clear and workable non-smoking protection rules throughout europe. in my view, however, 'throughout europe' does not necessarily mean 'from europe'. many member states already have smoke-free protection schemes in place and many more are in the process of doing so. i do not agree - and i am glad to say that the majority of my colleagues in the european parliament do not agree - that we must regulate non-smoking protection from brussels and that we can regulate it better here. the european union has no competence in this area either. we are only responsible for the area of occupational safety and health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the fact that the safety of workers is not guaranteed by the rules of the treaty. the member states must therefore take action in this area. i voted for it and i am glad that this amendment has been adopted.
in writing. the resolution on the european commission's current enlargement strategy is very balanced: it recognises the progress made by the candidate countries, but also clearly identifies the problems. turkey in particular has made considerable progress. i therefore welcome the clear criticism of the massive threats and real restrictions on freedom of expression and the press. the completely disproportionate tax penalty against the opposition dogan media group is a targeted attack on anti-government voices. the discrimination against religious minorities and the refusal of turkey to implement the ankara protocol are therefore also rightly criticised. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the opening up to armenia and the kurds has so far been nothing more than a publicity stunt and has even been opposed by the turkish parliament and large sections of the population. the turkish prime minister's statements also cast doubt on turkey's hoped-for role as a mediator between east and west. the courtship of the iranian president, the invitation to a conference of the sudanese president, who is wanted for genocide, and the attitude towards israel are more indicative of a divergence from the west. our call on the turkish government to coordinate its foreign policy with the eu and to abandon its objections to cooperation between nato and the eu is therefore only consistent.
in writing. − health policy, and therefore non-smoking protection, is clearly a matter for the member states and should not be regulated centrally. the member states must be free to decide to what extent they want to regulate non-smoking protection. it must be made clear that the eu has no competence in this area. that is why i have agreed to the resolution of parliament for next week's summit of eu health ministers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to join in the spirit of the speakers who have spoken before me. i would also like to remind you that the colombian president is also trying to extend his term of office in violation of the law in force in colombia, and that would at least have to be addressed. but above all, i would like to remind you that the friedrich-naumann-stiftung, a foundation in the federal republic of germany which is close to the fdp, was involved in the coup in honduras. there has been at least some debate about this in germany. there, foundation fellows have distanced themselves from this policy in an open letter. mr van baalen, we must not forget, is president of the liberal international, and the friedrich-naumann-stiftung's website states that he has spoken to military men in nicaragua about the possibility of a coup. i think it is quite right that in such circumstances it has not been objected to a country like nicaragua taking the right to expel such a politician from the country. it wouldn't look any different in our house. that's what you have to say to be honest. what is happening here is nothing but a transparent attempt to discredit and denigrate the countries, states and governments of latin america which are trying to make a more social policy. i would simply like to make it quite clear once again on behalf of the gue/ngl group that we do not support this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there have been many things said here. one, that it was the wrong issue, because there are more pressing issues in the world, where more human rights violations are happening. that may be, but i think that we europeans, who are concerned that values such as human rights and freedoms - including, for example, freedom of the press - are respected everywhere, must defend this freedom in any case if we realise that it is in danger somewhere. it was also said that the friedrich naumann foundation, for example, was involved in the coup. as a member of the fdp, i would like to reject this unequivocally. these are rumors that have been put out into the world and that have no basis. thirdly, it was said that mr van baalen was accused of having discussed a coup d'état and that this was the reason why he had been expelled from the country. i wonder: if you can't discuss openly about various topics - that's part of our freedom of the press, freedom of speech, which we have and value - can that really be a reason to expel someone from the country just because - whatever topic is discussed? that this is happening in public is not something that can be said, so someone from the country must be expelled just because it is being discussed. that's the wrong approach.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the result of this somewhat difficult debate has been at least one. the german alde colleague has just confirmed indirectly that the question of a coup d'état was indeed the subject of these talks. she defended it with the argument: "you have to be able to talk about everything, even a coup d'état". that is a remarkable, clarifying result of this debate. i'm not ungrateful for that.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable colleagues, as you know the european union is engaged in a difficult dialogue with this country aimed at preserving democracy and restoring its citizens’ trust in the country’s democratic institutions. at the same time, the eu is trying to maintain a balance with our long-standing commitment to support the development and stability of this developing country and the central american region more generally. since the municipal elections held in november 2008, which were tainted with allegations of widespread fraud, international donors’ confidence in the current government has fallen to an all-time low. failure to respect fundamental democratic principles including free and fair elections led the donor community to systematically review their cooperation portfolios and in certain instances reorient or suspend cooperation activities until conditions improved. commissioner ferrero-waldner took the decision to suspend all budgetary support payments to nicaragua as of 1 january 2009. this decision had been preceded by a discussion with member states in the council. following numerous contacts with the nicaraguan authorities which gave credible commitments that corrective steps would be taken, the commission proceeded at the beginning of october with a single payment of eur 10 million of our budget support programme to the education sector. this represents a small part of the funds that have been suspended, which amount to an additional eur 46 million. there was criticism last week in the development council that there were no previous discussions on this with the member states. without going into the details of this, i think it is very important that, when we take that kind of decision, we have a kind of a procedure whereby we at least try to make sure that the european commission and the member states are taking the same line with respect to individual states. if in the end it is not possible, then of course everybody is allowed to do what he or she thinks to be necessary. the government of nicaragua has announced that the next regional elections in 2010 and the general election in 2011 will have national and international observation teams. the government has already officially invited the eu to carry out an observation mission. the government has also committed, inter alia, to improving its civil registry and electoral role with the support of an ec project and to appoint credible and professional electoral authorities next year. on the other hand, recent developments, such as the ruling by the constitutional chamber, certainly cast a shadow on the seriousness of the nicaraguan government to live up to its commitments. the eu has on a number of occasions, most recently by means of a local troika démarche on monday 21 november, expressed concern on this development. at the end of the day implementation of these commitments will be crucial for the progressive resumption of our budgetary support programmes. we continue to work in close cooperation with the member sates as well as with the european parliament, as this debate shows. whether it is timely or not is of course a matter that should be looked at by parliament itself.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the human rights situation in vietnam is worrying. religious persecution, especially of christians and buddhists, is common. those who stand up for freedom and human rights are intimidated and systematically monitored. in late september, hundreds of monks at bat nha monastery were attacked, the entire complex was severely damaged, and the police stood by. those who sought refuge in the nearby phuoc hue temple were treated with mistreatment that is not tolerable. it is outrageous that the numerous calls from the european union and other parts of the world to improve the human rights situation have been consistently ignored. there are hundreds of reasons to finally make a change, especially as vietnam is due to take over the chairmanship of the asean group of countries next year. the situation in laos is not much better. in early november, more than 300 peaceful protesters calling for more pluralism and democracy were brutally beaten by the secret police. all efforts to establish political dialogue in this country are being destroyed by the unity party. the situation of the 5 000 hmong refugees who are currently living in camps in northern thailand and are a persecuted minority is also distressing. they will not be granted refugee status. the organization 'doctors without borders', which was here in parliament this week, has said that it is unable to provide humanitarian aid in the camps because people are being arrested and forced to return to laos, often arbitrarily, and that this is voluntary. we in this parliament ask the commission and the council to give us a precise picture of the state of observance of the agreements reached with both countries in the field of human rights and democracy. which have been consistently prevented? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (applause from the centre)
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. china has made enormous progress in the economic field in recent years. living conditions have improved for many there. unfortunately, there is no such progress in the protection and respect of human rights in one's own country for all its citizens, regardless of their religious or ethnic group. on the contrary, the harassment of the uyghurs and tibetans has increased. as for the death penalty, it is positive that the chinese supreme court is now reviewing all the sentences since 2007, and we can assume that individual death sentences will be reversed. yet china is the sad champion of executions. in 2008 alone, at least 1,718 people were executed. the dark figure is many times higher. with this minimum number, china is responsible for over 70% of all executions worldwide. in addition, china has expanded the list of crimes for which the death penalty is imposed, meaning that chinese men and women can now be executed for over 68 crimes. we therefore call on china to suspend the scheduled executions and to immediately join a moratorium on executions. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it was said that this was a speech on behalf of our group. our group, after careful deliberation last week in the conference of presidents, has asked for this item to be put on the agenda. so we want to have it treated, and we want to vote it. that is the personal opinion of the honourable member and not the opinion of the group!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have already said it here: the world uyghur congress, the centre of the free uyghurs, is in munich for the same reason that there used to be many czechs and many others in munich: because the free europe and liberty freedom channels were there. that spirit of freedom still animates us today. at the same time, franz-josef strauss, who has always defended the freedom channel against the demand for closure, has ensured that we had relations with china very early on. the two are not mutually exclusive but complementary: good contacts with china, but clear commitment to religious freedom and human rights. when several apartments were raided by the police in munich this week, arresting chinese agents who do nothing but terrorize and spy on uyghurs, it shows the methods china is using. we cannot accept these methods. they are increasing from the terror in munich to the death sentences in urumqi. that is why we must speak a clear language.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i take it for granted that the european parliament will speak when it is possible to save people from the death penalty, and that is why i support the call for a moratorium on executions. but the defence of human rights must not be misused to try to lecture china from above, to question china's integrity or to draw an absurd caricature of chinese reality. we are not helping the people in china who are fighting for human rights, freedom and social harmony by doing something like this. our aim must be to help these people and not to cultivate european self-righteousness. i also disagree with the fact that a positive reference to the memorandum on genuine autonomy for the tibetan people is now being inserted into an emergency resolution. this is neither current nor directly related to human rights nor is it a generally accepted position. and i would like to see in the future, before an eu-china summit, a broad discussion on china-eu relations so that we can cover all the issues.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to add my voice to what mr reinhard bütikofer said. my group had asked that we discuss the threat of execution of the uighurs in china and the death sentence for those who took part in the protests against the fraudulent elections in iran, because these are the two countries where people are in imminent danger of execution, so there should be an urgent debate. that the chinese have a record of executions, that this is an unjust regime that tramples on human rights and that holds the record - as you said - of executions, that's true. i want to say here that this is an intolerable condition. but we asked the conference of presidents to keep two things separate: the urgencies we are discussing now, namely the threatened executions, and the question of the european union's relations with china in the economic, cultural, political and military fields - wherever. we wanted to discuss this in a debate on the eu-china summit as a whole and to put it into a resolution. that is why the mess that has now emerged has nothing to do with urgency. that is why our group insists that we vote on the urgency we have requested and not on this collective problem which you have put forward.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are very clear against the death penalty wherever it is carried out in the world. and we are also against the oppression of ethnic and religious minorities. both are unfortunately happening in china. many hoped that the olympics would cause china to pay more attention to human rights and, because the chinese know the world's attention is on them, to commit fewer human rights violations. unfortunately, that did not happen. there are still executions, and that is why it is very important to talk about it today, when in november nine uighurs - about whom many people in the world do not know - and two tibetans were executed before. the eu-china summit is imminent and china is an important trading partner, as has been pointed out on several occasions. that is why it is so unpleasant to talk about these human rights violations all the time, but that is why it is important to talk about them today, in the run-up to this summit. we do not want the death penalty anywhere. it is good that parliament has already introduced a moratorium on the death penalty in 2007, and we must do everything we can to keep this issue alive as long as the death penalty is in place.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry, but there is an error in paragraph 3 of the german version, and i ask that it be corrected there and, if necessary, in all other language versions. it reads: 'condemns the execution of the two tibetans and nine other uighurs'. of course, that's not true. uighurs are not more tibetans, and tibetans are not more uighurs. so please correct that in all language versions.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to be here today to explain the current economic situation within the agricultural sector. the financial and economic crisis has also had an impact on the agricultural sector. we have seen slowdown in demand, evolution of exchange rates, difficult access to credits – all of these have had an impact on the prices for agricultural products and also on farm income. official estimates of agricultural income will only be available at the end of this week, but we can already expect that the income will show a significant drop in 2009 compared to the previous year, given the relative development in the cost of production and the agricultural market prices. after the initial fall that we saw in autumn 2008, this renewed drop in agricultural income can be expected to more than write off the exceptional income increases generated by the hikes that we saw in agricultural products starting in summer 2007 and then one year later. mr president, if you would allow me, i shall just go through some of the different sectors. first of all, cereals. we saw in 2008 a significant drop in prices, mainly because of a good harvest. however, we have seen that prices over recent months have increased specifically for wheat and corn or maize. in the light of these developments, it would not be appropriate at this moment to take exceptional measures, such as opening an intervention tender for maize, nor to intervene with export refunds. the situation is slightly different for feed barley, with reduced exports and low domestic prices, but intervention – as you know – has just been opened, and this should help the feed-grain markets. in the pigmeat sector the situation is still fragile. the economic crisis hit it at a time when it had not fully recovered from the difficulties experienced back in 2007. prices this year are lower than last year, but at the same time – and sometimes we have to look at it from the positive side – we can see that feed prices are much more stable than back in 2007 and 2008. though exports are below the 2008 level, we expect them still to be much higher than in 2007. all in all, i do not see sufficient justification for introducing an additional market instrument at the moment, but i can assure you that we are monitoring this situation very carefully. as regards fruit and vegetables, the economic crisis has led to lower domestic consumption, and also we have seen a certain decrease in some export markets. this has affected the fruit and vegetable prices that producers obtained. however, given the characteristics of the sector, we decided in the last reform on fruit and vegetables that the way to tackle the challenges faced by the sector is to make producer organisations more attractive and also make them responsible for crisis management. producer organisations account today for 40% of the total output of fruit and vegetables. they can associate into economically stronger units also on a transitional basis, which is significant, as today’s crises do not recognise national borders. in the 2007 reform we provided incentives for producer organisations to do this. we also equipped them with new crisis management tools, like green harvesting or non-harvesting, which complement the traditional withdrawals. we have also created a legal framework enabling fruit and vegetable producers to influence and stabilise the market, but there is a need for more bottom-up action, for which the commission cannot take the responsibility. i therefore encourage the creation of producer organisations, and i think that member states and farmers should take a look at the number of producer organisations you have in different member states. it is not very wise if you have producer organisations competing against each other instead of competing against the retail sector. olive oil prices reached a record level four years ago due to unfavourable climate conditions. since then, three consecutive satisfactory harvests and the economic crisis have led gradually to very low prices. for this reason the commission reactivated private storage aid earlier this year. we saw that the market reacted immediately and prices recovered steadily. despite the good harvest forecasts – the fourth in a row now – stocks at the beginning of the harvest stood at a low level. as far as we can see, consumption will recover. to summarise, i see some timid signs of recovery. i agree that close monitoring of the situation is needed and that this will allow action where necessary. this is a quick run-through of the short-term measures, but let me assure you that we are also looking into the medium- and long-term issues, in particular at matters like the distribution of the value added in the food chain, and also how to deal with price volatility. i am sure we will come back to these important issues as well.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. last year and this year, dairy farmers have also protested very loudly in brussels in support of their cause. the public has the impression that only dairy farmers are in a difficult situation. the fact is that other branches of the economy are also affected. unlike our dairy farmers, pig farmers, pig farmers, poultry farmers, fruit and vegetable farmers, wine growers and grain farmers are used to good years and bad years, and that is why these groups do not speak out so loudly. i think it is good that we are now also looking at the situation of these farms. commissioner, you said that the economic and financial crisis had affected the whole of agriculture and that we should consider how we could respond. i have heard from farmers in the area who are affected that we are generally coping with the markets, except in situations where it is extremely difficult, as was the case last year and this year with the dairy farmers and others. but what the farmers don't understand is that we are burdening them with more and more bureaucracy from europe. they say, 'we want to work in our fields and fields every day, to feed and tend our animals, and not to keep books and records all day long about what we do.' for centuries, our farmers have been producing food without much record keeping. the yields on the land have increased, the performance of the animals has increased, and today we overburden our farmers with bureaucracy. and now i read that the agriculture ministers are discussing cutting red tape. our farmers don't want to believe that any more. i hope that we can finally move forward here and let our farmers do what they can, which is produce food, healthy food for half a billion people. we should support them and ensure that they can do this in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. commissioner, you gave a very brief answer on the subject of crises and i have not heard any suggestions for solutions from you. we have not only the milk crisis, that is true, we also have a crisis in cereals, we have another concentration in the vegetable sector, and we have lost 50% of all pig producers in the last ten years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they should now say that liberalization has failed, that the solution for agriculture is not to turn to world markets. the next few years will be crucial for where our agriculture is going. we are therefore grateful that the 22 agriculture ministers in paris have given a clear indication of where to go. we can sign a lot of these. we need planning certainty in agriculture, and agricultural policy must be sustainable. we are also very committed to this. prices fall for farmers, but not for consumers. this shows that agricultural policy is really only geared to the interests of a few large corporations. you have rightly said, madam commissioner, that we must strengthen the role of the farmers in the game, but you still refuse to answer the question of how to do it. we're trying to answer that. this is indeed a very crucial matter in the coming years. farmers must not only become producers of raw materials, but they must also have active market power. and we must support the producers. agriculture which is constantly under pressure to raise prices will lead to a lack of quality. agriculture that continues to industrialize will lead to further loss of biodiversity, and with industrialized agriculture we also increase the burden of co2 and methane. it cannot be the solution that we address climate change but go further into industrialization! that is why we as a parliament must take our task very seriously in the years ahead. we hope to work well with the new commission.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i am very grateful that we are discussing this item of the agenda today, because it almost seems to the public that there has been only one crisis in the dairy sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the economic crisis has hit farmers hard. the last financial year was one of the worst of this decade. the situation for many farmers is very difficult, as profits have fallen sharply in many farms. economic crises reveal deficits, deficits that are man-made. crises only become catastrophes if nothing is done about them. and precisely because economic crises reveal human error, we can also address those errors. in every crisis there is also an opportunity, and it is precisely these opportunities that must be exploited. the commission must respond more quickly and more consistently to disturbances of the economic balance. secondly, we must create the necessary political framework for farmers to regulate the market themselves. thirdly, the legal capacity of producer groups must be strengthened. fourthly, we must make a decisive improvement and simplification in the use of agricultural raw materials for the production of renewable energy in the sense of market regulation. fifthly, let us not just talk about cutting red tape, but let us tackle this problem at last! i therefore repeat my appeal: let us learn from the crisis, let us take advantage of the opportunity which the crisis offers, we owe it to ourselves and above all to our farmers! in this context, i expect a catalogue of measures from the commission in early 2010 which we can then discuss in detail in the committee responsible.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. two weeks ago the seventh ministerial conference of the world trade organization met in geneva. i had the opportunity to be present as a representative of the alde delegation and now also to contribute as a co-author to this joint motion for a resolution. four lessons can and must be drawn from these experiences. the economic and financial crisis has also severely affected world trade. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. a revival of fair and free world trade - this is what doha can do, this is what doha must do! the european union has been very accommodating to its partners, particularly in the developing countries. we have, for example, put forward the prospect of abolishing all export subsidies for agricultural products. the point now is to reach a conclusion in the negotiations. we need a signal of political will. we in the alde group are determined that the conclusion of doha must come! - what? the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the european union must and can take a leading role in this. we should also act as a bridge to bring together, for example, the united states of america and the emerging and developing countries, as we also call for in the text of our joint resolution. besides, the public's attention must now be drawn. we need a broader citizen support. we should highlight the benefits of global trade, because free and fair global trade is good for all of us. i see no alternative to doha. the alternative would be a race for bilateral agreements. this is where access for the vulnerable, the inclusion of human rights and environmental objectives are at risk. this can't happen. that is why we need to conclude the doha round now!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. for eight years now, the doha round has been dragging on, and the vast majority of developing countries have never really wanted this doha round. in the beginning, it was the united states and europe that wanted to use the term "development" to get the developing countries to agree. but in the meantime, the negotiations have failed twice. only the big agricultural exporters, brazil and argentina, and maybe india, are really interested in seeing something happen. the eu has also de facto fallen into the second row, if we look at the routine requirements of the eu in recent years and also at what is now being proposed for the next few years. but we really must take a sober look at what has happened in recent years, apart from a twenty-year policy of liberalization. this policy of liberalization is partly responsible for the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing. we can't pretend we can keep doing this. i don't want to talk about the fact that if we continue as we have been doing, there will of course be consequences for the global climate if we don't get reasonable rules. now we had a conference in geneva where everyone, in the midst of the crisis, vowed that this was the way it had to go and that we could just wait until the crisis was over and then pick up where we left off. it is often said that the doha round will give a fresh boost to the economic recovery. but all the numbers prove it: it will not be, especially since the implementation times and periods will be far too long. it is often said that the developing countries could then share in the recovery. but if you really take a sober look at the balance sheet, you have to say that this is not going to bring about a boom for the mass of developing countries, but quite the opposite: the net effect is rather negative for most developing countries. that is why we cannot recommend that many developing countries should participate in the midst of the crisis. even if no wto member and none of the major political groups in the european parliament dares to say it, we greens say it: we demand that the doha round, which has been deadlocked for years and has become totally untimely, be finally terminated. we believe that the wto must be reformed and that in its current form it cannot contribute to solving global crises. we need fair trade in the future, not just free trade based on principles. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter. it has led to a huge pressure to rationalize in the industrialized countries. the process has been industrialized, and for the developing countries, basically, nothing has come of it but destabilized markets. the principle of absolute free trade has been given absolute priority rather than the principle of food sovereignty being given its due weight in the debate. the green group therefore calls for no further political capital to be invested in the dead doha round. we demand that the trial be restarted!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the questions raised by the chairman of the committee in this debate reflect global contexts. the balance sheet of our world economic order is devastating. two billion people live in extreme poverty. climate change has already forced more than 40 million people to flee, and the growth of global financial trade has led to the worst economic crisis in 80 years. mr zahradie, we have a historic task here, to set in motion a completely new regulation of the world economy, guided by the objectives of sustainability, environmental protection, social justice and food security. looking back at geneva, i can only say that the wto conference has failed in this task. the opportunity that could have been offered by a meeting of the states has been lost, despite all the efforts made. the doha negotiators are apparently still operating within a completely outdated - and i think we should put it frankly - failed negotiating mandate. the gue/ngl group believes that this must be changed urgently because the failure of geneva and rome and the complicated negotiations in copenhagen are now directly linked. i therefore call for the commission, with the direct involvement of the european parliament, to be given a newly defined negotiating mandate for the further development and change of the wto. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new community rules on the protection of the environment.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. in fact, we are discussing again today a proposal to use the european globalisation adjustment fund. the time intervals between such reports are getting shorter and shorter. this time it is sweden and austria which are concerned with redundancies in the automobile industry and the netherlands with redundancies in the construction industry. i would remind you again that this fund, with a maximum allocation of eur 500 million per year, is intended exclusively to help workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade structure and to provide them with support exclusively through further training, training and the chance to get back into a suitable job. it is important for us to stress once again, in this context, that in future we should have individual proposals or reports and not packages for mobilising the globalisation fund, as in this case, hopefully, was the last time. we reiterate that the support from the globalisation adjustment fund should not replace measures which are the responsibility of companies under national law or collective agreements, or measures for the restructuring of companies or sectors. the fact that payment appropriations from the european union social fund are apparently being systematically transferred remains a critical point for us - and the committee on employment and social affairs will probably not be silent on this - because the european globalisation adjustment fund is, after all, a separate special instrument with its own objectives and deadlines. the three applications we are discussing today and which we are going to be dealing with this week, together amount to a total of eur 15.9 million. the swedish and dutch requests are based on article 2a of the legal basis, which is at least 500 redundancies in one company in one member state within a period of four months. the austrian request is based on article 2b, at least 500 redundancies over a period of nine months, in particular in small and mediumsized enterprises. as i have said, the swedish request concerns a total of 4 687 redundancies at the car manufacturer volvo and at 23 suppliers and downstream manufacturers. sweden has requested 9.8 million from the fund. the austrian request concerns 744 redundancies in nine companies, with 400 of the redundant workers to be supported by the european globalisation adjustment fund. austria has requested eur 5.7 million for this purpose. the present dutch application concerns 570 redundancies in a single company heijmans , with the aim of providing 435 redundant workers with support totalling approximately eur 386 000. the commission's assessments, which we can endorse after careful examination, show that the applications meet the criteria for funding. without wishing to prejudge colleagues in the employment committee, i would point out that the employment committee, as agreed in the procedure, gives an opinion before the budget committee takes a decision and goes into the details very carefully. it has, for example, made it clear in the swedish case that of the 4 687 mentioned, only 1500 are to be included in the aid. in the case of heijmans, for example, it is noted that there were another 400 redundancies, mainly of workers on fixed-term contracts, which were not taken into account in the application. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, i think that the debate has also made it clear that the european globalisation adjustment fund is working, and we can say that we have already had several dozen uses of it, and it has always been with considerable benefits for the people who have used this fund. as commissioner, i have always tried to get to know the results on the ground, of course it is not a study, just a firsthand experience, and i was very pleased with how well the fund has been evaluated in the areas in which it has worked. the debate has raised a number of serious questions that need to be answered, and to which a clear and realistic view must be given. firstly, the idea arose that the fund was only useful for large enterprises. fortunately, experience shows that our original intention to make the fund useful to anyone, whether it is a large or a small country, a large or a small business, is working. the newly amended rules clearly provide for the possibility of using the fund also for employees of smes located in regions or sectors affected by crises. the fund therefore operates without any discrimination, favouring no one. i would also like to emphasize the fundamental character of this fund: it helps people, it does not help businesses, and in this respect it cannot be interpreted as a tool to keep businesses alive that have no realistic economic prospect of functioning, but the opposite. the fund helps people who have lost their jobs to find them more quickly in areas where there are jobs. it is therefore a fund that acts in principle and facilitates restructuring. there was a certain concern about gender inequality in one of the speeches, i think it was in the speech of mrs harkin. this disparity, which does exist at the level of the reports, is only a sign that this crisis, especially in its first phase, has hit the male-dominated sectors hard. we still have the automotive industry and the construction industry, two male-dominated industries. overall, therefore, it is men who have been helped the most by the fund. this crisis is changing the structure of the labor market in a very specific way, and i noted a statement by president obama that by the end of this year, the majority of the labor force actively engaged in the labor market in the united states will be women. so in the united states, the crisis has had a much more pronounced impact in male-dominated industries. so much for the gender imbalance in the fund's conception and structure. of course, there was a lot of thinking in the debate about how the fund could be changed and improved. i must say that the commission does not, of course, consider the fund to be something that emerged like the pallas athena from the head of dio and is unchangeable. it is a human institution that can always be improved by experience and debate. so i think there are no major obstacles here. another question that has been raised is the question of a certain method of financing, i.e. the incorporation of the fund in the budget as a separate budget line. it is certainly a question that will be discussed at political level, but in the context of this financial perspective, it was not possible to achieve the result that way, and i think that the fact that we have mobilized resources in a different but effective way has its value. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that it is undoubtedly true that the changed rules and the pressure of the crisis will lead to more individual cases, but as i said, the commission accepts the weight of the arguments in favour of applying the case-by-case approach and therefore we will proceed in this way. in conclusion, i would like to thank the members of the committee on budgets and all the members who have dealt with this problem, because it was clear from the debate that all the issues involved in any such complex decision-making were taken into account. and i think that what was clear from the debate, and what was clear from the commission's proposal, is that all these cases are cases that fall within the framework of the globalisation adjustment fund. i am therefore very pleased that your debate has confirmed this view of the commission, and i assume that the vote will also go in this direction, or so i hope.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i do not need to add anything to what the commissioner has said. i support what he said, especially when he finally raised the question of the future development of the globalisation fund in relation to the other programmes - in particular the esf - on which we will have an intensive debate together. it is quite clear that this globalisation fund cannot absorb the consequences of structural change, nor can it accept and meet the challenges of globalisation. that's not his job. but it can help individuals who find themselves in a difficult occupational situation after being laid off and give them the chance to find a new perspective and a job through qualification. this is something that should be supported and welcomed, despite the debate on subsidiarity, which of course also plays a role in this context, as a complementary fund to all the esf measures that we have. i would simply like to say again that there are certainly programmes in the national and european budgets where the usefulness of expenditure has to be questioned more than in the case of a fund like this which directly helps people who are in a difficult starting position.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday.
the next item is the report by mrs kinga göncz, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a european microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion (progress microfinance facility) (com (2009) 0333 - c7-0053/2009 - 2009/0096 (cod)) (a7-0050/2009).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. microcredit and small loans can help people who are not creditworthy under the usual market mechanisms. they can also - as has already been said - start businesses and create jobs with their ideas. such loans can be used by those who are able to get out of a crisis. micro-credit is also an important instrument for supporting the social economy. this, in its various forms and traditions, has been a recognised instrument of local employment policy in the eu since 2000. and because of that, in its wisdom, this parliament decided in 2006 that the european social fund could also be disbursed as a microcredit or a soft loan, as provided for in article 11 of the esf regulation. but the european social fund has 76 billion euros, and with co-financing it is 118 billion euros! even a tenth of that would be 11 billion which the member states could use. but they don't use it for microcredit! this is why the commission has created a test phase for microcredit with a jasmine instrument, partly financed by european structural funds. and because it was so successful, a new instrument is to follow. but not from the structural funds, where we are talking about billions, but from the smallest programme of the european union, the progress poverty programme, which has a total of only 743 million euros for seven years. it is intended that ngos should establish networks in the member states to lobby the poorest of the poor. the european roma affairs office alone is 50% funded by progress. it is setting up national and regional information and advice offices and giving a voice to the roma minority, particularly in the eastern european countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. it is not possible that such pickpocketing tricks on the one hand take the money of the poor and on the other hand spill it ... (the president deprives the speaker of the floor.)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. a microfinance facility for the unemployed, those threatened with unemployment and, above all, for people who do not have access to normal credit markets is a good idea and is supported by our group on principle. however, what the commission and the council have done so far in this procedure is simply inadequate, partly wrong and cannot be supported by our group. the first criticism is the question of the financial allocation. the financial resources on the table are not financial resources for a programme to combat unemployment, they cannot be called micro-financing programmes, they are at most nano-financing! secondly, we are fundamentally opposed to such tricks of the hand, which have no effect whatsoever, are at the expense of other programmes and thus endlessly blow. thirdly, we believe that the sustainability and success of such a programme requires mentoring and coaching. many new startups, especially in the microfinance sector, fail, so this needs to be addressed within the programme. fourthly, it must be ensured that social security benefits are not abolished in the member states for the benefit of this programme, otherwise it will become ineffective. this is not a sustainable way of combating unemployment. we shall reject it in this form.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we can certainly see that the stabilisation of the economy and the financial markets is a very promising sign for 2010, and i would also point out that this was only possible because it was coordinated at european level. but of course we see that the number of unemployed is increasing, and you just have to assume that it will increase next year. i therefore welcome this new instrument for financing people who want to become selfemployed. it is well known that small and mediumsized enterprises create jobs. we have been discussing the financial support for these companies for many years, but we have to find out year after year that the funds do not really go where they belong. i was able to follow the end of a pilot project last week and therefore could not bring the experience gained there into this report. that's why i want to do this. the commission has also set up a pilot scheme to accompany selfemployed people or those who want to become selfemployed on their way to independence for a year. it was so successful that i would urge that this be included in this project, not just to finance people who are going into self-employment, but to finance people who are accompanying these people. this is necessary because the banks, which do not lend, see a certain risk. i think that's a risk that can be offset. the second point which was discussed there again and again was that credit should not be limited to the bottom. so far, you can only get loans from 5,000 euros. sometimes people don't need that. we should take this into account in this programme.
i have to say, madam president, this is the third or fourth speaker from the social democrats who has said: 'we do not want to take money from progress'. but the amendments say that the instrument should be called progress, and mrs pervenche berès also said that 60 million will come from progress. that's two thirds! i would like to know what the position of the social democrats is. should the instrument be financed by progress? yes or no?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. last month, the commission presented its new eu 2020 strategy, which builds on the lisbon objectives and calls for a more social europe, among other things. if we are to achieve sustainable employment for the citizens of europe, we must ensure that people can put their own good ideas into practice and generate their own income, especially now, in a difficult economic situation. the eu microfinance facility for employment aims to provide opportunities for a new start and pave the way for entrepreneurship. the path to self-employment often takes stages. it is better to shoulder small investments than to accumulate large debts. a more manageable risk for starting up a business, especially for women, who often seek start-up finance to secure the start and then expand when business is good. women want to grow their businesses. that is why the minimum amount of credit must be offered to citizens. i am referring to amounts well below the eur 25 000 normally allocated to a micro-credit. it is particularly in times of economic crisis that the necessary liquidity must reach the population at large. if there were help here to keep the often very high interest and processing fees on small loans low, then we would have a chance to give the economy a new boost. i welcome the idea of the commission's proposal. the committees in the european parliament are fighting over funding. the question of the competence of european politics is quite permissible in this area. the member states have the primary responsibility. i think that the community's programme for employment and solidarity (progress) is a way of enabling self-employment in this proposal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the commission statement on the safety of toys.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we always discuss toys before christmas. this is fitting, for this is the time when people are most interested in toys. i am very grateful that we are doing this again this year, because toy safety is a matter for parliament, the council and the commission to pursue together and where we jointly set the highest standards. the debate this evening was triggered by media reports in one member state alone - germany. they're from the federal institute for risk assessment and the technical surveillance association. the commission was not contacted directly by either institution. the german government has not yet approached the commission in this matter either. we do not know more than what these two institutions have said in their press statements and what has been published in the german media. but nevertheless, it is a subject that must be taken so seriously that even if one can rely only on press reports, it is necessary to deal with it. the analysis of the reports before us shows that we have to deal with four different issues. the first question is a very easy one to answer. according to the german technical surveillance association, a significant proportion of toys tested on the german market do not comply with the legal provisions in force in the european union. here, ladies and gentlemen, the rules are perfectly clear. if a member state makes such a finding, it is obliged to inform all other member states and the european commission immediately and to take the necessary measures. they can go so far as to immediately withdraw these products from the market, throughout europe, and also to ban imports if these products have been manufactured outside the european union. i hope that the german authorities will make the appropriate communications to the other member states and the commission very quickly via rapex. if import bans are necessary, i hereby give you my assurance that the commission will approve such import bans immediately and without any delay. but as i said, we have not yet received any information from the german authorities. market surveillance - i must say this very clearly here - is the exclusive competence of the member states. the european commission, parliament and the council have no market surveillance instruments. the member states alone have the power to do so. but they are obliged by law, including under the current toy directive, to carry out this market surveillance. and when i read from germany that it is doubtful that german market surveillance can meet the requirements of the new toy directive, then i can only say one thing: in that case, the german government is obliged to ensure that the german market surveillance authorities can do so. so i think this question is relatively straightforward to answer. the second question is also simple. it is an old subject which parliament has debated intensely in connection with the adoption of the toy directive and which has been decided by a clear and unequivocal majority in this parliament in a contested vote, in a roll-call vote. the question was whether toys should be certified by a third party. this proposal was made by germany. in the background were the technical surveillance societies. the proposal was rightly rejected because third party certification does not create any additional safety for normally technically inadequate toys, because what is being certified here is the prototype. the problem with toys is not the prototype, but as we know from experience, the problem with toys is whether the very high standards we have throughout the manufacturing process are actually met by all the suppliers and all the players in the value chain. and as everywhere, so in the case of toys we adhere to the principle that the manufacturer must take full responsibility for ensuring that a product complies with the law. we cannot let manufacturers, wherever they are in the world, off the hook. if there are reliability problems in a particular country, then it is necessary to talk to that country about improving production conditions there. and that is what the european commission is doing. i'm talking about china. we are in close and intensive contact with china on how we can actually ensure that the production conditions in this country, which is by far the largest toy manufacturer in the world, meet our requirements. progress has been made in this area too, but further efforts are certainly needed. the third complex concerns chemicals and heavy metals in toys. this is an extremely difficult and sensitive subject. the political instruction i gave my staff when the toy directive was being drawn up was to provide for the strictest possible rules, the strictest possible rules! this view has been shared by the council and parliament. this means that the limits we have in the new toy directive, which will be phased in from 2011, were in line with the state of the art at the time of adoption. however, knowing that this is an evolutionary process - science is always progressing, there are always new research results, new findings - we have deliberately designed the directive together in such a way that new scientific findings showing that there are risks that we have not seen before and that limit values are set too high can be quickly incorporated into a comitology procedure with the involvement of parliament. the existing legal framework adopted by the european parliament requires the involvement of the competent scientific committee for the evaluation of the risks of products. there have been two indications this year that there may be new insights. firstly, a letter from the german federal minister for agriculture and consumer protection to me from the spring of this year. the letter was about cadmium. i have therefore immediately arranged for this question to be referred to the scientific committee, and not only with regard to cadmium but also with regard to other heavy metals. we expect the outcome of this review in the first half of 2010, at the latest by the end of the first half of the year. and if it turns out that there are indeed new findings here, we will immediately make a proposal to tighten the directive, which has not even entered into force yet, at this point so that it will enter into force with the tightened limits in 2011. the second case is a bit complicated and difficult to explain. it refers to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, known as pahs, which we are all surrounded by in our daily lives - you have no idea what we are dealing with. here again, we have received indications that the limit values for these polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons may be set too high. the scientific committee is working on it. the result will also be in time for us to make corrections. let me say at this point that we are dealing with a problem which we as politicians can hardly solve. these are technical questions of enormous complexity. i must confess to you quite frankly that i do not always understand the extremely complicated scientific considerations that are put on my table. i cannot imagine that there are many members in this parliament, even if they were all here tonight, who could claim that. we can't do that. we're not trained for that. so we have to rely on our experts to some extent. that's the problem. because we all know that the history of science is full of examples where a generally accepted doctrine has been shown to be wrong. the history of science is full of examples of so-called minority opinions that have turned out to be correct. how can we, as politicians, decide a dispute between scientists? we can't do that. this is a risk that is part of our profession as politicians and that we cannot avoid. the rule we have here in the european institutions is that we follow the recommendations of the relevant scientific committees. and that's what we did in this case. but i'll be very frank, i take this question so seriously that any hint, even a slight one, that there might be new knowledge, and even if we only learn about it from a newspaper report, is taken so seriously by the commission that it is put to the scientists. the last point is an annoying point. i must say that i would have expected an institution belonging to the government of a member state to observe the minimum standards of scientific decency. the claim made by the federal institute for risk assessment, which has been widely reported in the german media, that we have a limit for tyres on polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons which is a hundred times stricter than the limit for children's toys, is an insult. it's a real disgrace, and the scientists there know it. the truth is that the rules governing tyre manufacturing, and in particular the oils used in it, predate reach and the toy safety directive, and that one of these substances is used as a reference value. but this fabric represents a group of about a hundred others. so you have to take the reference value times 100. you are getting very close to the threshold that applies to other products in the european union. in other words, since the threshold for the use of certain oils in the manufacture of tyres is the least directed towards the measurable content of these substances in the product, the same applies to toys. the percentage is defined by the smallest measurable percentage. i can only ask this federal institution to withdraw this unsustainable and confusing statement. it's really unbearable having to deal with something like this. in conclusion, as far as the toy directive is concerned, we have created a work which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, corresponds to what was possible at the time of its adoption. and we've done it in a way that new insights can be incorporated at any time, so that our safety requirements for toys are always up to date with the latest science and research.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank you very much, commissioner, for the clarity and credibility of your statements with regard to the limits in question. i would therefore like to make it clear on behalf of the epp group - we also put forward the rapporteur for the toy directive with marianne thyssen at the time - that we too want to achieve and maintain complete protection for all dangerous substances. we know that we have a special responsibility here for the health of our children and therefore for our future. just before christmas, you said, mr commissioner, that parents and grandparents must be able to be sure what toys are safe for their children or grandchildren, what toys they can buy for their children or grandchildren. i therefore join you in appealing to the market surveillance authorities in the member states, and in particular in germany, to fulfil their obligations and to withdraw dangerous toys from the market. i believe that we made the right decision not to use third party certification as a general evaluation criterion for toys. as regards the limit values, a similar call was made a year ago. i wrote to you at the time and asked you to call the commission's scientific committee. i'm very grateful to you for that. i then took care to obtain further scientific opinions from germany, which i now have. i quote from a study by the stuttgart chemical and veterinary research office: the higher migration limits of the new directive and their comparison with the fifteen-year-old values of din en 713 are ultimately technically difficult to assess.i think this also makes it clear that this is not a cheap relegation station to science under the motto we do not want to examine this further because we do not want to understand it, but actually a difficult dispute between specialists, which is apparently carried out by an institute in germany very fiercely. i would like to ask you, commissioner, to do everything possible to bring the scientific institutes involved together so that we can reach a consensus on a scientifically sound opinion.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the statement made in the opinion of the federal institute for risk assessment that the alara principle, i.e. the principle 'as low as reasonably achievable', should be applied to the assessment of carcinogenic substances is supported by the alde group. secondly, it requires the commission to verify whether the limit values laid down in the toy directive also meet this principle. thirdly, should this not be the case, we call on the commission to ensure that, by the time the member states transpose the toy directive by 2011, the limit values in the toy directive are set in such a way as to exclude any risk to children's health from plasticizers contained in toys. fourthly, the principle enshrined in the toys directive that chemicals which are potentially carcinogenic, cause genetic mutations or harm reproduction are not allowed must be enforced with regard to accessible parts of toys. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. fifthly, this requires in particular better and more efficient market surveillance, since the excesses of eu limits are usually toys imported into the eu. efficient market surveillance also makes it possible to verify that toys manufactured in the eu comply with the limit values. sixthly, it is absolutely unacceptable, if true, that imports into the eu should be subject to lower standards than, say, the us. however, the threat of the german federal minister for consumer affairs, ilse aigner, to ban so-called toxic toys altogether, if necessary, is in my view the completely wrong way and totally counterproductive way of building confidence in the european internal market. national populism not only destroys trust in european institutions, it also harms the federal government for agreeing to the toy directive.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. we have really asked for this debate so that we can correct and clarify what is true about the allegations and what is cheap populism. that was the background. we had expected the commission to go to the press sooner, but if it can be made clear by the debate today, we are also very pleased. i welcome the announcement that you will be conducting the heavy metal and plasticizer review. i think that is also urgently needed. i would like to point out that the number of new cancer cases in children under 15 years of age has increased by over 50% between 1980 - the beginning of the data collection - and 2006. malignant tumours are the second most common cause of death in children. we must therefore act, we must check whether these figures are correct and we must react accordingly. and if this latest study by the german federal institute for risk assessment shows that the revised toy directive does not sufficiently protect against carcinogenic plasticizers, then we must act. it is not possible that children can absorb many times the carcinogens contained in the smoke of 40 cigarettes in just one hour of skin contact. these substances are preventable, it is technically possible, this study also shows. 70% of toys sold fall below these thresholds. it is therefore always possible to require others to respect these limits. it is probably a question of price, but this cannot be settled by the market alone when the safety of children is at stake. then policy must act and adjust and raise the thresholds accordingly. of course, the member states are responsible for market surveillance, not europe, parliament or the commission. and we have also repeatedly called on germany to take its market surveillance responsibilities seriously and to act accordingly. but that does not mean that we should not act if there is any doubt that our thresholds are not up to date with the scientific evidence, and that is why i hope and wish that the new commission will come to parliament with proposals as soon as possible and that we can then adjust the relevant thresholds by comitology.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too would like to thank you very much for your clear words. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. we all came with the determination to create the strictest legislation in the world. but now many parents and grandparents are worried because there are studies by the bfr, the german federal institute for risk assessment, as you mentioned. we must now ask ourselves: is the institute right in its statements and in its opinion or not? in any case, we must examine the facts carefully. it's about protecting our children. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you very much for agreeing to do this. but i think it would have to go faster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have to go faster! it's about protecting our children. i cannot understand why the federal institute has come forward so late with these statements. i would like to say the same here.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the rapporteur. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we already knew this when we debated this year's budget last december, and as rapporteur-general for the 2009 budget i said it in the debate: we would be faced with the effects of the financial crisis and its consequences for the real economy in all our member states. that's exactly what happened! in april 2009, parliament and the council agreed to finance the first part of the economic stimulus proposed by the commission. in order to approve the 2.6 billion euro, we needed what is known as a small revision of the financial perspective. how else could we have found the funds with our tightly constricted financial corset? the remaining 2.4 billion euros, missing from the total of 5 billion euros, should be found this autumn. there we are. we are in autumn and, thanks to a proper mediation between parliament and the council on the 2010 budget, we have a solution. the 2009 budget makes a significant contribution to this solution. with the supplementary and amending budget for 2010, we are cutting payment appropriations by more than eur 3.4 billion. as a result, margins are reduced by the unused parts in the various headings, almost eur 1.5 billion. all this in the 2009 budget, which was not exactly a lavish one, with eur 133.8 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 116.1 billion in payment appropriations. if we look at the budget lines on which the commission has found the necessary money, we get the impression that the commission simply does not take the decisions of the budgetary authority seriously. i would remind you that in 2008, when we adopted the 2009 budget, our priorities were also european union competitiveness, growth and employment. that is why we have spent more money than the commission has allocated on budget lines which were intended to promote the social dimension in the sense of creating more and better jobs and supporting small and mediumsized enterprises. but it is precisely these budget lines that are being plundered when it comes to transfers or corrective budgets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's draft budget is neither exactly calculated nor well appreciated! in 2009, we had over 50 transfers and 10 supplementary and amending budgets. can we still speak of budgetary truth and budgetary clarity? it's got to get better! our colleagues in the specialised committees must pay more attention to the implementation reports during the financial year, and the commission must finally live up to its still good reputation as a good european administration. i hope we all work on it!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. so, after the agreement on the 2010 budget, we are talking about eur 141.4 billion in commitments and eur 122.9 billion in payments. i would like to begin by expressly thanking both rapporteurs for their commitment and to say that mrs haug is absolutely right in what she has just said about the 2009 budget. if we look at these figures, we still find that 11.2 billion euros are still below the ceilings for payments under the multiannual financial framework. the multiannual financial framework therefore leaves us a margin of manoeuvre within the agreed ceilings, if necessary and politically desirable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these instruments are provided for, but they are definitely reaching the end of their capabilities now with what we did in 2010. this is also true for heading ii, where the air will be much thinner after 2010 with the margins available so far and is unlikely to be available. now we have integrated the second tranche of the so-called economic recovery package of 2.4 billion euros into these agreements, and it was right to finance the second half with 2.4 billion in 2010 and not to partially postpone it to 2011. it was not a stimulus package, of course, but it was the right policy priorities, complementary to each other, in terms of energy and broadband in rural areas. we have used the flexibility instrument to finance an additional 120 million for energy projects and 75 million for the kosloduy nuclear power plant. the commission has already made a very strange procedure of dealing with this, and i must make it clear that this is not the end of the matter. we have a total of 300 million to look forward to. and we expect you to take these funds still to be financed for the decommissioning of this nuclear power station into the mid-term review of the budget and not to finance them by means of further cuts in category 1b, and that is to be clearly and clearly stated here. we also carried out a review of unused 2009 appropriations to bring the total to 1.9 billion for energy and an additional 420 million for broadband internet in category ii. i would like to say that this decision was right on the whole, but it is also part of the reason why we are making it clear today that we now see the budgetary implementation of the lisbon treaty as our next task. or do we want to wait until 2014, when we will have to deal with the other political priorities of the european union in the context of globalisation and new tasks? the resolution scheduled for thursday clearly states that the new commission is invited to publish as soon as possible a report on the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement as provided for in the agreements, and at the same time - and i stress the triple - to provide for an adjustment, review and amendment of the current multiannual financial framework for 2007-2013 and to submit its extension until 2015-2016, and also to launch the procedure to be carried out for the next multiannual financial framework in order to launch a proper public and open debate on the subsequent financial framework. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we have an exciting time ahead of us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the greens also believe that the budget for 2010, which we have negotiated and agreed, is a reasonable compromise. we had a number of open questions and gaps at the beginning of this budgetary consultation which were not financed. we've found some sort of regulation now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to begin, however, with the problems of how this european budget is structured and how rigid it is. we have already heard the political symptom here. if we had 50 transfers of funds and 10 supplementary and amending budgets in the 2009 budget, it must be clear to everyone that the objectives we have set for this budget with its corset and rigid structure are clearly out of date and that we are jointly called upon to change this if we want to do better in the future. so let us now turn to the questions of the forthcoming review. the budget we are now adopting - that was the motto of my colleague lászló surján - is a budget for a time of crisis. and crisis means financial crisis and economic crisis. but i would like to add, while the copenhagen conference is still in progress: we are, of course, dealing with a much more existential crisis, namely whether we, globally, will be able to save our planet and limit global warming to 2 degrees celsius. we would have to act together in terms of our households, in terms of our management of resources and in terms of our way of doing business and living. we have to switch to renewable energy. we need to reduce our co2 levels dramatically. we need to move to a low-carbon economy. we must therefore also spend more on research, research into sustainability, new materials, new products. that's the only way we're going to create jobs. we must do so in a way that benefits the european single market, but also that the european union has new opportunities in the world market of green technologies, of ecological products. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this also means that we - the member states and the european union - must invest more in education together. this is the resource we have in the european union and we need to promote it in a different way so that our young people in europe, but also worldwide, have opportunities. i would add that we must also make a dramatic change in our agricultural policy and agricultural export subsidies and keep an eye on the structural funds. these too must undergo a significant change in terms of renovation of old buildings, transport policy and sustainable transport policy. so what am i saying? the 2010 budget is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough! we greens coined the term 'green new deal' because we are convinced that only by making a joint effort in a european spirit with the member states, the commission and the european parliament will we have the political strength and conviction to achieve real change, to transform our economy and thus create new jobs. only if we bring this political force together to bring about real change will we change the european budget in this way, change the national budgets and now, with a view to copenhagen, hopefully be able to provide funds in the next few years to enable the poor countries - especially those in sub-saharan africa - to come up with new growth models, not to copy our mistakes, but to come together - the industrialized nations, the emerging countries and the developing countries - to come up with a new model of coexistence and economy. only then will we be successful on a european and a world scale.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to take up mr garriga's call for realistic budgets. where are the costs of the lisbon treaty? this is a very pressing problem now. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the structural funds are our sacred cow. we already have budget surpluses of two and a half years which are not being used up, and we have to put at least another 30 billion into these budget surpluses. we have a problem in the balkans, where the countries are preparing to join the european union, and yet we have little interest in learning what is really happening in the balkans, thanks to the negative decisions of the socialists and liberals. how do the various eu institutions, of which there are now many, for example in kosovo, cooperate with each other? these were all important amendments which this house rejected and which i think we should all take up because we have a job to do. where's the progress in the progress reports? we have agreed to the audit report in which we called for a traffic light system, and yet the committee on budgets subsequently refused to give this traffic light a second chance with a corresponding reserve. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to urge realism on kosloduj. kosloduj was not included in the commission's special report on the use of eu funds in bulgaria until this summer, although it received funds from phare. by the end of 2009, there was at least 602 million euros for kosloduj. i've been trying to find out what happened to the money, and i've found that nothing has been rebuilt, but that plans have been made for decommissioning management. kosloduj has shown me how little the commission knows about what is happening with our money, and it has also shown that the numerous subsidiary budgets that have become available make control difficult and lead to a loss of control even in the commission itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have succeeded in these negotiations as the european parliament. i would like to thank all my colleagues in parliament who have negotiated and who have also shown a clear attitude towards the commission and the council. it is now important to take full account of all the concerns of the lisbon treaty. this is also true of the budgetary area as a whole. and it has been shown that parliament is to be taken seriously, and it makes sense to take parliament seriously. the budgetary negotiations have made this very clear. many colleagues have already said that we have achieved our main objectives. as rapporteur for the agricultural budget in the committee on agriculture and rural development, i can say that our budget - the agricultural part - has been squeezed like a lemon, but we are within the margin. we've withdrawn. we have achieved this ourselves in our committee. i value that! the commission has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the council will be very active in this area. but other branches of agricultural production are also having a very hard time at the moment. it's not just agriculture, it's not just farmers - many jobs downstream are affected. that is what makes the present situation even more difficult. we still need the fixed budget line for the milk fund, and we want to achieve that in the future. we have committed more funds in the 2010 budget than in 2009. we know that this is due to the current situation. we will act accordingly and do everything we can to make our agricultural policy sustainable and innovative.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i think it's been an exciting debate. we've had our differences, and that's the way it should be. some people want to cut back on their budgets. however, many do not seem to be fully satisfied until the entire national budgets are transferred to the eu. but fortunately our electorate does not want to hand over all power to the european parliament. i have received a direct question from göran färm. at göran färm it sounds as if we have no employment policy in europe if we do not have microcredit. of course it's not like that. the various member states are investing enormous sums to support the economy and employment. europe is doing this, for example through the €5 billion recovery plan, with strong increases in the rest of the budget. finally, we also have the very expansionary policy of central banks. so there is a very strong policy for employment and growth. if göran färm believes that microcredit is a priority, something else must actually be less of a priority. it's just a matter of choosing. but simply wanting more and sending the bill to the various member states is of course not an acceptable solution.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would also like to thank all my colleagues. we have managed to reach a common position with the council. i would also like to thank the council, the presidency, very warmly. anyone who knows me knows that i'm always very frugal with praise and thanks. but i would like to thank the swedish presidency for its work, for its presence whenever we discussed budgetary matters, and above all in its personal form, mr lindblad. this is a welcome departure from other council presidencies i have had in my long career as a member of parliament. thank you very much. this morning a great many colleagues have already taken part in the debate, many more than usual, or so i thought. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. ladies and gentlemen, let us be confident that the 2010 budget will be the last of its kind, the last with this structure which makes us believe that we can finance the necessary policies of the european union and the new challenges and tasks. we expect the future commission to deliver the mid-term evaluation quickly and swiftly, which, according to the agreements of 2006, should have been submitted by 2009 at the latest, that is, by the end of this year. to put it bluntly: we also expect a proposal for the revision of the current financial perspective. we cannot wait until 2014 to reform. we need sustainable instruments now so that we as the european union can face the challenges of the near future, democratically legitimized, as our president, alain lamassoure, has just called for once again on behalf of us all.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. after the european council has just approved 23.5 million euros in a very unilateral procedure, we will certainly also have to make the necessary adjustments to the parliament's budget very quickly in order to maintain the balance of the institutions and to take sufficient account of the parliament's capacity to act, also in view of the challenges of lisbon, in order to be able to take sufficient account of the capacity of the political groups, the committees and, in particular, the individual members to act in view of the tasks ahead. in addition, we shall have to discuss adjustment, review and revision in general over the next few months. it is a question of adapting, renewing and supplementing the interinstitutional agreement, it is a question of transferring parts of the interinstitutional agreement to a multiannual financial framework which will be decided differently on the basis of lisbon, it is a question of co-decision procedures in the budgetary regulation, and it is also a question, for example, of the large package for the establishment of the external service both with a view to guaranteeing parliament's budgetary rights and with a view to the possible necessary adjustments to the legal bases for the external multiannual programmes. i would therefore like to say again that without adjustment, review and revision, this cannot be done and we cannot postpone the necessary phasing-in of the budgetary challenges of the lisbon treaty to st nimmerlein day. i expect the new commission to move very quickly and to make proposals which guarantee parliament's rights in all respects and which do not seek to change one or the other through the back door, which might then be to the detriment of parliament. we'll know how to prevent that!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i would like to ask you today about the structure of the next commission. we think the cut you have presented is a very presidential one. we believe that you are personally organising yourself in this structure as president of the commission with a great deal of power. we are surprised that you want to abolish the commissioners' working groups. we believe that these have done well in the last parliamentary term. we are also surprised that in some areas there is an incomprehensible fragmentation of responsibilities. the division between mrs reding and mrs malmström and how you want to deal with it remains your secret. it seems to us that a kind of homeland security office is to be created at mrs. malmström. and i'm sure i wouldn't mind doing a little extra weather. but if you appoint a climate commissioner, you also have to show that behind that climate commissioner there is real power and that she has access to areas like energy, industry, transport, environment or agriculture. we don't see that at all.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i would like to ask again: how can the commissioner for climate change be strong, how can she assert herself if this is not reflected in the structures, according to the second option? secondly, there is another detail which seems to us to be totally unreasonable, namely that the green genetic technology which you, mr barroso, are in favour of is now in the health sector and is no longer in the environment sector or in the agricultural sector. you'd have to explain that, too.
president of the commission. − i think the meeting we had with ukraine was successful. to be frank with you, our ukrainian friends have to do more if they want us to help them more. i have been spending more time working on ukrainian issues than on most of the member states of the european union, which shows the attention we give to ukrainian concerns. this is a country that is very close to us and a country we want to be closer to. that is why we have offered them a comprehensive and innovative european union-ukraine association agreement. this is the most advanced status we can give to a country, barring accession, which is not possible under the current situation. there were some discussions, but if you look at the final conclusions it is clearly reaffirmed that ukraine is a european country, ukraine is bound by the same european values and we want to be closer to ukraine. we want to help them to be closer to us. i believe that it was a productive meeting, but we cannot honestly expect to create a new status for ukraine every time there is a summit. the last summit before this was in paris. we granted ukraine this association possibility, but we cannot move to a new status every time there is a summit, and we had a very honest, open and friendly discussion about this with president yushchenko and the other interlocutors.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i have a question for you about the tobin tax. the tobin tax is a worthy proposal, but no one has introduced it yet, and everyone always says that if everyone does not introduce it at the same time, it will never be introduced. i am afraid that now that the european summit has decided this - which i welcome - it will be put off again because not everyone will start at the same time. my question is: what is your position on this and what do you see as the chances of introducing the tobin tax?
president of the commission. − the deadline is the deadline for the consultation based on this document, but there will also be other opportunities to consult. in fact there have been consultations on the future of the lisbon strategy at least since 2008. the committee of the regions has prepared a very interesting report, as has the economic and social committee, and i would like to take this opportunity to say that i am prepared, if the european parliament so wishes, to hold a debate on this matter – not just this question hour with one-minute replies, but a special debate on this matter alone – whenever you want, because i really believe it is extremely important. (applause)it is extremely important for this parliament to have ownership, and also to associate national parliaments in this process, because this is to be the centrepiece of the strategy for the future. i would like to underline that point. regarding the issue of the mechanisms of governance, that is exactly what we are now preparing. there are several ideas. one current idea is precisely to have ways of measuring progress and to monitor progress in certain areas on the basis of indicators. this is what we are preparing, and for this we need the support of parliament and, hopefully, also the agreement of our member states.
i would like to address the issue of the 2020 climate strategy again, in addition to the question already raised. mr president, is it true that the provisional emissions trading system allows europe's largest steel company to emit 90 million tonnes of co2, whereas last year it had 68 million tonnes and this year 43 million tonnes? could it be that europe's largest steel company will be earning a billion pounds by 2012 from the emissions it has lobbied too much for, including at the commission?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. welcome to mrs. ashton in her new position. i would like to thank the presidency for the resolution and for the recognition that without a solution to the settlement problem, the two-state solution will not be achieved in the long term. the report by the heads of mission has been mentioned several times. we like him a lot too. so, based on that, i have two questions: what is the current status of this report, where is it published? secondly, what will you, the commission and the council, do to implement the recommendations contained in it? i would now like to quote three recommendations from it. the first is:prevent, discourage financial transactions from eu member states actors supporting settlement activity in east jerusalem by adopting appropriate eu legislation; second, ensure that products manufactured in settlements in east jerusalem are not exported to the eu under the eu-israel association agreement; and, third, provide guidance on origin labelling for settlement products to major eu retailers. these are very concrete and precise proposals which are made in this report. what are your next steps to implement them?
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am a member of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council, the palestinian parliament. last week our delegation was denied entry to gaza by israel. the situation in gaza is worrying, especially now in winter. only 10% of the population can still support themselves with smuggling activities through the tunnels, which is exactly why they are tolerated everywhere. before operation cast lead, it was the other way around, and 90 percent of the population in gaza was self-sufficient. in fact, israel would have to provide the population in all the occupied territories as an occupying power. israel is evading this international legal obligation, so the international community, especially the eu, must step in. but if we are providing for the livelihood of 90% of the population in gaza, then we have a right to see where the money of the european taxpayer is going, whether it is being used wisely and whether it is reaching the people concerned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i'm delighted that baroness ashton has taken her seat on the commission side. i hope that will be the case in the future. i have two questions for the presidency: the foreign ministers' council conclusions do not mention the middle east quartet. is there a disagreement in the council on the role of the quartet in the peace process, or what is the reason for this? secondly, the same applies to hamas. this grouping, which is unfortunately politically relevant, is also not mentioned in the conclusions. what is the background?
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? the swedish presidency has devoted a lot of time to putting the treaty of lisbon into place. we are extremely proud that it has now come into force. it contains substantial improvements which will be good for the european union and its citizens. one of the most important changes introduced by the lisbon treaty is the introduction of the european parliament's co-decision in the area of justice, security and freedom. the european parliament is involved in many areas. it's good, and it strengthens the quality of the laws we're going to make together. it also strengthens legal certainty and this is very important because it concerns sensitive and difficult areas. i would also like to thank you for your support in the introduction of sanctions against terrorists, individuals or regimes that oppress and deny human rights. sanctions and respect for human rights and the rule of law are not mutually exclusive on the contrary. sanctions can be very effective and legitimate if they are also legally sound. i assure you that the european parliament will be involved in the formulation of new rules, including those relating to terrorism, with co-decision under article 75 when it comes to sanctions within the european union. but when it comes to external measures, i.e. sanctions against third countries adopted by the un, the european parliament does not have a vote. that is how both we and the commission read the treaty very clearly. however, we will pay very close attention to your resolution on this issue and will always keep the human rights aspect in mind when we use the sanctions instrument, in the eu and in the un. we're constantly trying to improve the procedure. we note your requests for consultation and exchange of information on proposals for sanctions systems. i believe that we can work together effectively and i have no doubt that we will find appropriate forms of cooperation, while respecting the current institutional framework.
vice-president designate of the commission. − mr president, i will be brief. i think there are three particular points that i would like to refer to. firstly, honourable members have quite rightly talked about the importance of fundamental rights, and i think we would all agree that there of course is a significant role in this for the european court of justice who, amongst other things, will make sure that rights are respected in terms of what the council or the commission does. but i take the point very well. the second point i wanted to make was this issue of good cooperation. the previous president called upon both me and mrs wallström to be very clear about the importance that they attach to our role and approach in dealing with parliament. i was asked specifically what information. at this stage i do not know. i think one of the things that i have to do as i set out in this new role is work with parliament, which i will do, to look at what it is. how we cooperate effectively and what information is included, bearing in mind indeed what was said about what can we put in the public domain or not. i will be extremely mindful of that for all the reasons that members of parliament would expect me to be. the third and final thing i would say is about legal certainty. i spent many hours taking the lisbon treaty through a parliament so at one time i knew the treaty extremely well. the interpretation of article 75 of course is how you refer back to article 67 and the relevance of that within the context and so the legal advice we have got is to try and seek to clarify where indeed this now fits. the advice we have is clear. members of parliament of course are at liberty to contest that, but i think it is very important that wherever we arrive in this, there is legal certainty. it is extremely important as the lisbon treaty comes into effect. it is extremely important to me as i work out how to do the role that i have been honoured to be given. it is extremely important that we reach a conclusion on this. for my part, i think we have the answer in terms of certainty. i do understand parliament’s concern; i do understand the need to nevertheless cooperate fully.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? as you know, greater openness is a very important issue for the swedish presidency. we have come quite a long way in our eu institutions in terms of openness. but transparency is not just about laws and rules. it is about attitudes and how laws and regulations are applied in practice. this morning i had the great pleasure of meeting with commission vice-president margot wallström and vice-president diana wallis of the interinstitutional committee on access to documents. the meeting was held on the initiative of the swedish presidency. the committee hadn't met in two years. we had very good and concrete discussions on how to improve in practice the access of citizens to the documents of the institutions. we should have more meetings and that was also one of our common conclusions. i am glad that the lisbon treaty places great emphasis on openness, transparency and democracy. we welcome that. as regards the revision of regulation 1049, which we call the transparency regulation, the presidency would like to focus first and foremost on the new legal basis for the regulation. it is contained in article 15 (3) of the treaty of lisbon. the main change in the new legal basis is the extension of the institutional scope. this means, quite simply, that whereas the previous article only applied to acts of parliament, the council and the commission, the new article aims to increase and extend the right of public access to documents. it covers all the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union. there are some limitations to documents held by the court of justice of the european union, the ecb and the european investment bank, but it is a much larger area than before. the commission has announced that it will submit a proposal to the european parliament and the council to adapt the current transparency regulation to the new treaty provisions. in the meantime, the council's work on the review of the transparency regulation will continue to build on the proposal presented to the european parliament by the commission in may 2008. since may 2008, the council working party on information has reviewed the proposal twice. the second technical round was completed in june and july this year and covers a number of the amendments adopted by parliament at its plenary session in march 2009. in may, parliament decided not to complete its formal examination of the commission's proposal before the european parliament. i would remind parliament that at the beginning of the swedish presidency, on 2 september 2009, my colleague, minister for justice beatrice ask, told the libe committee that she was ready to open interinstitutional discussions. she asked in particular whether the newly elected parliament intended to continue to work on the basis of the 92 amendments adopted by parliament in march 2009. the background to her question was that we as the presidency needed to know parliament's position, although not necessarily in the form of a first completed reading. i understand that the new parliament has not yet had the opportunity to discuss the commission's proposal, but has rather focused on the possible impact of the lisbon treaty on the ongoing review. in the council we are awaiting the commission's notified proposals on the effects of the lisbon treaty on the treaty on transparency. we are of course still open to discussing the present proposal with you and it goes without saying that in such discussions we should of course take account of the new effects of the treaty. in my view, article 15 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union is the most relevant legal basis for the proposal under the new treaty. other articles relating to transparency in general, better communication between the institutions and citizens and good governance are of particular relevance to the work of the institutions, in order to strengthen democracy, efficiency and legitimacy. we also need to discuss how to achieve these types of objectives. but i am not convinced that they fall within the scope of the transparency regulation. in the interests of clarity, it should contain clear rules on public access to documents and not so much else.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, if i may first turn to mr cashman. i think this is the last possibility or opportunity that i will have to say thank you to you. you are indeed the face of the fight for this particular regulation and for openness and transparency in parliament. you have become the face, the symbol and the advocate of it. i also think that we have a great deal of credibility, being swedish, both cecilia malmström and myself and i do not think that people will doubt that we will continue to fight for openness and transparency. at the same time, we have had our rows because we also play different roles and sometimes we have to be very realistic about what we can achieve and we have to fight our corners in each institution. that is not always easy. i think the whole political climate has also changed and the political balance has changed and that has affected our discussions on these issues. but our starting point, i would say, is absolutely the same and we also state that this particular regulation on access to documents has served us very well. over the years this has been an excellent tool that we also want to be used by more than the lobbyists and those who are paid for looking at all the documents. we want the general public and journalists to be able to use it and have full access to documents. that is my starting point. i know that i share this view, as you could hear, with the minister. i think also the swedish presidency was a golden opportunity to move this issue forward. now i really want to thank parliament for the opportunity to have this debate on transparency and the new lisbon treaty because it places more emphasis on openness and what is called participatory democracy. we all agree that this is a most welcome development. the concrete question on the table today is: what measures will the commission take with regards to the revision of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001? as you know, with the lisbon treaty, the public right of access to documents has been extended, as we heard the minister saying, to documents of all institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union. although there are some restrictions for the court of justice, the european central bank and the european investment bank for natural reasons. concerning the review of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, i want to point out that the new legal base, article 15(3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, is very similar to the former article 255 and the main difference is the extension of the institutional scope. this issue was addressed by the commission in our communication on 2 december this year. this was aimed at aligning pending proposals for secondary legislation to the new treaty. (some of you here may know it under the eu jargon as the ‘omnibus act’ – let’s forget that the minute i have said it!) it means that either of the legislators can now introduce an amendment extending the scope of the regulation to the other bodies and institutions. this is also to let the council know that this has been presented by the commission and adopted by the commission. further progress in the legislative process leading to the adoption of an amended regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 is in the hands of the legislators: parliament and council. we are still in the stage of the first reading. we do not have a legislative resolution and we do not have the position of the new parliament. of course the commission will go on to contribute to reaching an agreement – as in other legislative processes.the lisbon treaty lays down a legal framework for participatory democracy. from the commission’s side we have already taken a number of initiatives aimed at improving public consultation and participation on proposed new policies. for example, we will assess the commission’s consultation guidelines against the new provisions of the treaty and decide whether adjustments are necessary to further improve them, and we have already started the work on the citizens’ initiative by launching a public consultation, to listen to the citizens and the stakeholders before presenting a proposal. the great importance of the citizens’ initiative was also recognised by the european council last week. and the incoming spanish presidency, i have understood, has put this very high on the agenda. they want rapid delivery. this morning, as we have already heard, the interinstitutional committee on public access to documents met at the invitation of the swedish presidency. the task of this group is to examine best practice, address possible conflicts and discuss further developments on public access to documents. so we decided together that we will have an ‘openness’ web portal, we will have complementarity of our institutions’ public registers; we will have our respective it services sit down and coordinate their access efforts and we will now consider the impact on access to documents when our institutions create or change electronic storage systems. i know that this is the time of year when you write wish lists. but i think when it comes to openness and transparency, you should not rely on santa claus. i think it is really up to us to deliver now: parliament, council and commission. real concrete and direct delivery. i think we have already started and we have to continue on this track so i am looking forward to our debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not we had agreed with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups to submit an oral question on the state of play and the next steps. the council and the commission have responded to our request and we have decided to discuss the next steps. we have just received this answer in principle. i do not know why the rapporteur, contrary to our agreement between the groups, has suddenly tabled a resolution in which he has actually anticipated his own position. what does he want the commission and the council to say? the whole thing, with all due respect, mr cashman, was done in secret, quietly, totally opaque. so much for your topic. i'm fighting for transparency. they tried to work around us. i would also like to point out that the admissibility of this resolution under the rules of procedure is still very controversial. in any case, it is of course a repetition of your existing report from the last parliamentary term and therefore completely unnecessary. i know that you have tried to negotiate with the shadow rapporteurs to bring forward a joint resolution, but i am fundamentally against this resolution. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, in my view, did not change the legal basis of the dossier to the extent that it would have changed our role as the european parliament. the report was and is a dossier in the codecision procedure. that explains my group's reservations about the admissibility of a resolution under our rules of procedure. i don't want to go into the content. you are mixing up a lot of things: quotations from the treaty on european union, the treaty of lisbon, the charter of fundamental rights - all taken out of context - to give your motion for a resolution legitimacy. in this absolute sense, it is certainly not legally tenable. you are not committed to a certain necessary confidentiality, which is required by third parties, for example, in the context of international agreements, as a conditio sine qua non. just think of the agreement with the us on swift. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. that's not on your side. and other legal rights, such as data protection or the right to privacy, are being ignored. we should not adopt this resolution. we have received a good response from the commission and the council and we should continue to work on this basis - this is the answer to our oral question. i ask you, mr cashman, to withdraw your motion for a resolution.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the commission very much for the communication on the experience gained in applying the hygiene regulations. this is very important and the content of the communication is very convincing. i'd like to support you in that. it is a reflection of what has been happening in practice over the last three years. we must recognize that we have made a paradigm shift in the hygiene regulations. we have strengthened the internal market, we have improved the safety of food and we have strengthened the responsibility of food business operators. this is a major change and we must therefore of course also note some problems which have arisen, particularly in the case of the admission of small and mediumsized enterprises. there are already some butchers who have ceased their activity. we should also point out that this is because the flexibility provided for in the regulations has not been applied very often and that - what i particularly criticise - the exchange of experience between the various inspection bodies and the european veterinary office has not been carried out. if the commission now finds that it does not want to make changes, i will have to object. i think it is necessary, even if it is only cosmetic corrections, to deal with the following in particular: we should remember that the information within the food chain is too narrow. we should change something here. we should consider other methods of meat testing. in particular, we should not continue to maintain the accreditation of trichinella laboratories provided for in regulation 882. we need planning certainty for the application areas. i therefore object in particular to this provision. on the whole, we should propose changes in a concise and concise way so that we do not approve transitional legislation again until 2013.
member of the commission. − madam president, commissioner vassiliou has asked me to pass on her apologies for being unable to be present to speak on this oral question relating to the commission report on experience gained from application of the food hygiene regulations. on behalf of the commission, i would like to underline that the report is based on information received from relevant stakeholders, from both the public and private sectors, and the outcome of these consultations has been positive. no major difficulties were identified, but in some areas there is still room for improvement. turning to specific issues, firstly, i am aware of the problem of the reapproval of small-capacity establishments. solutions to such problems can be found through the flexibility provisions in the regulations to be adopted at national level. where this approach has not been followed, difficulties have arisen in certain member states. the food and veterinary office is currently carrying out specific missions to identify best practice of such flexibility for small-capacity slaughterhouses, with a view to their wider dissemination. due to the fact that member states have until the end of this year to decide whether to grant or refuse approvals, i cannot say at this stage how many small and medium-sized enterprises were refused approval. secondly, the flexibility provisions aim more generally to protect food diversity and help small-scale producers. the adoption of national measures to apply flexibility and the notification to the commission provide legal certainty for small-scale producers and acknowledges the specificities of smaller-scale establishments. at the same time, food diversity, such as traditional production methods for sausages or cheese, is ensured without compromising food safety. in order to encourage the correct use of flexibility provisions, the commission has published several guidance documents. this should further contribute to ensuring transparency and legal certainty. it is also important to recall that the commission, in an effort to contribute towards a reduction of administrative burdens, notably for very small enterprises, has already suggested amending the regulation accordingly. however, this suggestion is still pending, as you know. thirdly, food-chain information includes a written communication from the farmer to the slaughterhouse and its official veterinarian. this information provides essential data to ensure a risk-based inspection. the competent authorities have recently been allowed a derogation from the provision that the information must be delivered to the slaughterhouse at least 24 hours in advance. additionally, i am pleased to announce that next april the next commission will organise a round table with all parties concerned on a possible revision of meat inspections in order to consider its effectiveness, taking into account recent trends of hazards. finally, i would stress that laboratories involved in official controls must be accredited to ensure high quality and uniformity of analytical results so as not to jeopardise the safety of food. this is essential for the smooth day-to-day running of intra-eu trade and for facilitating trade with third countries. however, the commission has recently agreed to an extension of a transitional period for trichinella testing until the end of 2013 to allow more time for laboratories to become accredited.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank mr horst schnellhardt for the question he asked. we have therefore an opportunity to contribute good and less good experiences in the implementation of the regulation. the hygiene ordinance lays down hygiene rules for meat production. the commission's consultation shows that good progress is being made and that the implementation of the guidelines is working well overall. the fear that small and craft enterprises would be ruined by too strict regulations has not been borne out in most cases, thanks to the exceptions for small enterprises. however, the consultation also clearly shows that in many cases there are still application problems. this is confirmed by the information i receive from the farms and the inspection offices in my home region. the fact that local authorities are given a wide margin of discretion in their decisions allows them to respond to the needs of small and artisanal butchers on a case-by-case basis. this is certainly good and important, because only in this way will the small butchers' variety of products, with the challenges of freshness and quality, not be crushed by the overwhelming bureaucracy. this flexibility is, however, limited if it leads to different interpretations of the exceptions and the rules, depending on the will and the imagination of the supervising authority. this creates serious distortions of competition, not only between member states but also within them. we therefore need to improve the hygiene regulation so that it gives the inspectors more legal certainty and more legal control. they must be given adequate legal measures, for example in the form of fines. there is still a great deal of legal uncertainty, mr commissioner, which must be resolved, and we await the commission's proposal.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking you for having this debate. mr lopez has just pointed out that as a lawyer he says we are not competent. i am not speaking as a lawyer, but as a politician. millions of people in europe are affected by this judgment of the strasbourg judges. that's why it's good that we're having this discussion. the relationship between church and state has always been a contentious issue in europe, leading to bloody conflicts. it is good and right that the european union has fought its way to the separation of state and religion. that's good and right. but we have different models in europe. in france we have a clear secularism, in britain the situation is such that the head of state, the queen, is the supreme representative of the church. we have different models of how the relationship between church and state has developed. that is why i think it is good that we are calling for subsidiarity here, that each country should be allowed to go its own way. i'd like to take this a step further. i do not want to talk about subsidiarity, but about the fundamental question that in my view the european values of solidarity, subsidiarity and freedom are unthinkable without a foundation in christianity, in the judeo-christian religious understanding. why do they have these values in china, but not in the arab world? because they are rooted in our culture and our religions. this may be pointed out without forcing anyone to accept the same belief. we are proud of our religious freedom. there is religious freedom in the sense that i choose to be an atheist. yes, that's all right, that's legitimate, that's what we fought for. but there is also the right to have a belief. in my home region of over a million people, over 80% are catholics. just as the atheist demands that people be tolerant of him, the catholics - over 80% - demand that non-believers be tolerant of their faith, that people be allowed to live their faith in public, to represent it, and that christian symbols be accepted by those who are in the minority in such a majority society. this too is legitimate on the basis of religious freedom. those who demand tolerance should also practice it toward those who profess the christian faith.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what does religious freedom mean? the answer is simple: it is the freedom to practice religion. religious freedom is not freedom from religion but freedom to religion. freedom of religion does not create a religion-free society but gives people the right to practice their religion in public. a cross in the classroom doesn't force anyone to believe what they believe. so it's not a violation of religious freedom. i've also never heard of a right not to be confronted with religious symbols. otherwise, all crosses on cemeteries and church towers would have to be banned. the crucifix judgment of the european court of human rights is therefore not only an attack on the principle of subsidiarity but also a violation of the human right to freedom of religion. we cannot and must not accept this judgment as the european parliament. the european court of human rights must be a court of law and must not be a pawn in the hands of ideological and christophobean political interests. otherwise we must seriously consider what the court of justice is still for.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i agree that it's difficult to clarify. i do not think that this is impossible, but i would like to say from the point of view of my group that we considered it intolerable for observers, whatever their status, to remain members of the national parliaments at the same time. we believe that those who come here as observers will then have to give up their national mandates.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the term 'transition' has been used many times today, and i believe that this is the correct term for the swedish presidency. it was a presidency of transition from a treaty, the treaty of nice, which has proved to be totally impractical, to the treaty of lisbon, which is overburdened with expectations, and which i believe will not be able to meet all of them. the treaty of lisbon cannot be the end of the institutional development of europe. we must be careful not to place all our hopes for all the solutions to all the world's problems on the lisbon treaty. we have just seen how difficult it is to deal with the treaty of lisbon in the rules of procedure. i should like to begin with the institutional problems which this treaty has created. we have the swedish prime minister here today. who will be the next president of the council? mr van rompuy, the rotating president of the council, then the president of the commission, then mrs ashton - when they all speak, at least for the first time in the first four speeches we do not have this permanent ppe congress, but then lady ashton is there and thus a decent socialist who is stirring up the pot. that's one advantage. (interruption of the debate) i do not know whether mr van rompuy will be coming or mr zapatero. but thank you, mr langen. if you know mr. zapatero is coming, you've done a good job. thank you very much. the swedish presidency was a transitional presidency, but it was also a presidency which saw once again that the ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, merkel and sarkozy, held their cards to the last, and the public said to the president-in-office of the council: 'yes, he knows nothing, he does not know how to make ends meet' and paid the price for their tactical game. this was the fate of fredrik reinfeldt in the last few months. thank god it's over now. this is the progress of the lisbon treaty: a little more transparency in the institutional structure. and one more thing: the increased power of the european parliament. the growing power of the european parliament means that the other institutions will also have to deal with it. this means that the president of the council must vote with parliament on the decisions he wants to prepare in the council, at least the legislative decisions. it is wise to see the president of the european parliament not as a guest at council meetings but as the representative of an institution which has become more powerful. that is what i expect from mr van rompuy, for example. the council is well advised, but so is the commission, in trying to find a majority in parliament on the basis of this new treaty which also meets the social, environmental and financial challenges which they themselves formulate in their programmes. for legislation, they ultimately need a qualified majority in this parliament if they are to get their initiatives through. the commission is therefore well advised to seek a majority across the whole breadth of parliament, which may not be accompanied by members of the commission being vice-presidents of european parties, thus documenting the one-sidedness of certain political tendencies. i would like to ask you, mr president of the commission, to give this matter serious consideration. the swedish presidency has made a great effort. i would like to make that very clear. but in the end - and this is not your fault, mr reinfeldt, but the fault of the structure - it has had no influence on the major decisions, including those now to be taken in copenhagen, because a single rotating presidency cannot have much influence, but can only coordinate. and there's a difference between coordinating and influencing. influencing the control of financial markets, influencing climate change, influencing economic policy efforts to revitalise the economy - this can only be done by europe as a whole and through the interaction of its institutions. that is why i believe that the treaty of lisbon is a step forward. the fact that the swedish presidency finally got it through seems to me to have been the great success of this transitional presidency.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: after four days in copenhagen, it is extremely difficult for me to hear the word 'leadership of the european union' at all. leadership -- and i learned this in kindergarten -- is first and foremost about setting a good example. i would now like to ask you, mr reinfeldt, mr barroso, whether you really believe that a strategy based on lies, self-deception and large-scale international fraud can lead the way in such an international process in copenhagen. you should know, mr reinfeldt and mr barroso certainly knows this, because he has been around long enough , that the two-degree target is a mission impossible if the europeans stick to their current proposals. the reduction target is not sufficient. at the same time, europeans have opened all the back doors to avoid reduction policies at home. the offsetting is no longer limited, and hot air has become an issue not only for poland but also for sweden. the forestry accounting, which you and your government have just been promoting, mr reinfeldt, is another contribution by the europeans to sneaking out of the active policy of reduction. it has been assessed by many experts in copenhagen that what you have been offering so far, even in the best of circumstances, will lead to emissions in europe not decreasing but increasing by 2020. so please, mr reinfeldt, make it clear how we are going to achieve the two-degree target if we stick to what is currently being offered. to make matters worse, a german newspaper, the financial times, published today that you are going to abandon the 30% target for 2020 and bid for 2025. i urge you very strongly: if you really want to continue this process, then withdraw what is in the newspaper today as the line of the europeans. one last thing: thousands of official observers will be outside the doors of the bella centre in the coming days, even though they have been accredited for the conference. these are people who have been working really hard for years, in some cases for decades, on climate policy. make sure that these people don't end up in cages or sit on the frozen ground for hours with their hands tied because they can't participate anymore! there's a lot of leadership to lose in copenhagen. but the way the european rule of law is presented there - i have nothing left for rioters, nothing at all - and the disproportionate treatment of peaceful protesters - cecilia malmström is an expert in law - you should also have something to say about that in copenhagen.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the swedish presidency of the council will be discussed by my colleague eva-britt svensson. i would like to draw attention to two points from the conclusions of the first summit after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. firstly, i regret that the european council has not conveyed a clear message on the future strategy of the eu. on the contrary! he is in line with the old commission, which wants to stick to the basic principles of the failed lisbon strategy. even if it was recognised that a new policy approach was needed, where is it? i haven't found him. the new commission, the new parliament and the new president of the council would give us the opportunity to start a new process of discussion. yes, even with the new treaty and the possibility of the citizens' initiative, which is still to be implemented. our starting point is clear: the social and environmental interests of the people must be preserved above all else, above all the profit interests of a few. this must become the new fundamental principle of european union policies and legislation. only then will citizens continue to see the eu as progress. secondly, the left welcomes the fact that the council is finally taking up the demand for a capital transfer tax. we are pleased that commissioner barroso promised in yesterday's debate that the new commission under his leadership would put forward proposals in due course. we will keep on looking at this and we will continue to do so, and the european union can and must take the first step when in doubt. waiting for someone else to take it from us on a global scale is not acceptable.
mr president, transparency towards parliament is very often highlighted now that the lisbon treaty is in place. is there a new proposal of the european council for copenhagen with a 30% target – a greater offsetting than the 20% target – for 2025? there is a leaked document circulating in copenhagen and i want clarification now, based on contacts with the commission, whether this is the true strategy of the council. please tell us the truth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. your presidency of the quiet hand was a success. you had to solve difficult political issues, and you did all of them well. the personalities you have chosen for the new key eu offices can now influence them without any prior pressure, they are not yet known to most eu citizens. if i may be so bold as to make a side note, your best decision is sitting right next to you. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is mainly due to two reasons: firstly, you have stepped up the process of developing the european council into a kind of eu supergovernment. the commission's powers are increasingly broad, from environmental to financial policy. at the same time, you are closing the doors more tightly, and transparent debates by representatives of the people look different. the second reason is that your decision to block swift just hours before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty by the council is a clear disregard for the european parliament and a lack of respect for the citizens. thanks for the last six months, though.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to say thank you first. the swedish presidency has done an excellent job despite the many problems. sweden is a medium-sized country in the european union, and this must be appreciated in every respect. i thank you and your whole government, mr prime minister. they've had some really tough issues with climate, the financial crisis, the lisbon treaty and the new commission. i would like to highlight two issues. first , the financial crisis . the fact that sweden has remained firm with the commission on the consolidation efforts of individual member states is absolutely positive. i can only expressly support the fact that you did not say: 'we will now release greece from its responsibilities in the euro area'. the second area is climate policy. we have heard criticism from the communists and the greens. they are not in actual charge anywhere in europe. we can make climate policy like china and the united states, making big proclamations but not getting results. europe has results. i am opposed to greenpeace becoming the benchmark for european climate policy. we must be realistic. the swedish presidency has also achieved surprisingly good results in this area, in cooperation with the commission. i would also like to express my gratitude. the commission has already made a number of proposals. he said the commission would meet with the vice-presidents of the european political parties. i am surprised that the chairman of a political group wants to discuss the political commitment of individual members of the commission. what the hell is this? i can only dismiss that. i would like to end by encouraging you - as you did when you took office - to finally join the euro. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i have to say, madam president, now, eight years later, we all know it. the previous strategy in afghanistan, which relied on the military, has failed. the mismatch between military operations on the one hand and insufficient resources for civilian purposes on the other hand is a real obstacle to improving living conditions in afghanistan. that is why our most important message as gue/ngl is that a radical change in strategy is needed. we need a radical change of strategy, away from the military and above all towards the people. it says that 40 percent of afghans are unemployed, more than half of them live in really dire poverty, have no access to adequate health care or education. the social question must be given priority, and we expect this from the council, from the commission, from all those involved. this, of course, includes strengthening responsible government action, strengthening agriculture, integrating former taliban fighters. but i'll tell you this, if you go halfway through and go back to military adventures, you're gonna miss your chance. it's five minutes to midnight!
i have to say, madam president, if there is one thing we cannot do in the bitter reality of afghanistan, it is to make up stories. i'm saying this in your direction, lady ashton. you have spoken of the member states' commitment, their sincere commitment to the police training mission eupol. oh, really, are they? and yet we can't even get the 400 cops together? it's a mixture of double-talk and ridicule. are we serious about what we're saying? two years ago, the european security review found that the low number of police trainers was actually undermining europe's commitment. why don't we fund the trained police to stop them defecting to warlords or the taliban? it would be cheap and very efficient. i have the impression, lady ashton, that europe speaks very loudly, but it is shameful how small and inappropriate europe's actions are!
i have to say, madam president, the title chosen here is correct: new action plan for afghanistan and pakistan. but what was presented here seemed to me to be two separate action plans presented one after the other. i support in principle what has been said about both countries. in afghanistan, hopefully we have learned from the mistakes of the past and adjust policies and structures. as for pakistan, i'm glad that the new policy is being seen as a follow-up to my election observation report. i think it is right that in the countries where election observation missions have been carried out, the recommendations should be incorporated into the concrete policies towards the countries. i would like the council and commission to clarify once again in their subsequent replies what the common strategy is for both countries. because what we have to realize is that we have, for example, a border there that is thousands of kilometres long that cannot really be controlled by either side, but that the policies that we pursue on one side of that border or the other have direct effects across the border. so what structures are we really trying to build? how do we want to establish dialogue between the afghan and pakistani governments? how do we get the people on the ground to accept the policies that we have there? these are questions that we still need answers to, and i hope we will get answers to.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. an afghan friend once told me, it's good that the west invaded afghanistan, but remember that in afghan history, anyone who stayed longer than a year became an occupier, even if they came first as liberators. that was 2001. now we're in 2009, and that's exactly what happened. the taliban are de facto in control of 80% of the country, and the us military leadership, as well as european defence ministers, say that this cannot be won militarily. what's the goal? a country that cannot be controlled cannot be centrally directed towards democracy and so on, if such a country has never been centrally governed. i mean, doesn't it make sense to focus on al qaeda and terrorism and then get out? these are questions that must be answered. the questions correctly raised by mrs van orden concerning the link between this action plan and the overall strategic objective, the london conference, the obama plan, etc., also need to be answered. does that make sense? it is therefore necessary and right to combine afghanistan and pakistan here, and also what was said in the end about india. first of all, we must see how internal development is progressing. i have never seen that when foreign military pressure comes out and you train soldiers and police who have no purpose of their own, the ideological part of the civil war that has a purpose loses. he always wins! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up. we really should think about what the plan can be to get the soldiers out in a sensible way and at the same time to end terrorism.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of nations. he praised the work and policies of president lukashenka and appreciated the high turnout as an expression of the high admiration and love of the people for their president. he has forgotten to visit the opposition, as is customary. and the reaction was not that steps of liberalization were noted in belarus, but rather the course towards the opposition has been tightened. there were repressions, there were beatings and fights and things like that. that is why we have tabled this resolution today, to make clear which forces we are supporting, which approaches of civil society we are supporting and that we can only talk about a partnership which has been on hold until the human rights dialogue with belarus is fully restored. that means freedom of speech, freedom of opinion, free opposition work, the registration of opposition parties and so on. that's important to us, that's what the partnership has to be about. we hope that the european union will find a common position on this and that the future foreign minister will also defend it with all her might.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not no other country in the world has so far been involved in more european security and defence policy operations than the democratic republic of congo. as always, the question is whose security is being defended. the congolese civilians, the women and children? the un mission monuc also failed to prevent thousands of people from being killed, tortured, raped and hundreds of thousands displaced atrocities committed by eu-backed government forces. but what is being defended in the congo? the humanity? or is it a regime that has signed 61 contracts with international mining companies between 2003 and 2006, for example, and none of which has been judged by international ngos to be acceptable to the congolese people? president kabila temporarily changed course to reduce the number of contracts awarded to western companies. this change has been put on hold with the renewed escalation of war. i ask why the ringleaders of the biggest murderous group in eastern congo - the fdlr - are suspected in germany? i refer to the resolution i tabled on behalf of the gue/ngl group.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? as this debate has shown, there are very good reasons for continuing our involvement in the democratic republic of congo. the eu is already deeply committed to the long-term stability, security and development of the country. commissioner karel de gucht gave a long account of the eu's efforts. the eu as a whole, both the member states and the commission, is one of the largest donors in the region, and therefore we have the ability to influence. however, the stability of the drc and the region depends on the improvement of the living standards of the congolese people, the protection of human rights and the fight against corruption in order to establish a society based on the rule of law. the horrific sexual violence witnessed by many members here and which unfortunately is fed into too many reports is of course totally unacceptable. the perpetrators must not go free. they must be brought to justice. here the congolese government has a great responsibility to ensure that this happens and that president kabila's zero-tolerance policy does not just become words but actually leads to action. as regards the council, the mandate of the two esdp missions was revised following the fact-finding mission in the democratic republic of congo in early 2009 to contribute to the fight against sexual violence. as a consequence, eupol in the drc will deploy two multidisciplinary teams with different types of expertise, such as criminal investigation and combating sexual violence, to the provinces of north kivu and south kivu with a mandate to cover the whole country. recruitment for these posts is currently underway. it's a small contribution, of course. that's modest in a very vast country. but it is important, and this new specialized staff will be able to support the implementation of proper sexual violence investigations, not least when the perpetrator is wearing a uniform. we shall be entering question time shortly, but this is my last debate as the representative of the swedish presidency in the house. i would like to thank you for the many good debates, the many happy moments and the very good cooperation with the members of the european parliament and with you, mr president!
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the members who have contributed to this debate. i am not going to revert back to my initial statement. let me just focus on three things. first, the european commission is doing a lot with respect to humanitarian aid and programmes for re-establishing the rule of law. we are speaking about tens of millions and even more than eur 100 million initially. but the problem is, of course, how effective is all this in the end, if you do not have a proper counterpart in the political arena? secondly, i would like to comment on the mandate of monuc because, although monuc may be criticised and has to be criticised for what recently happened, i think it would be the ultimate mistake to ask that they leave the drc. this would be the worst thing one could imagine. let me just read to you some sections of the mandate adopted by the un security council at the beginning of last year. it states that ‘the council also decided that monuc shall, from the adoption of this resolution, have the mandate, in this order of priority, working in close cooperation with the government of the drc in order to ensure, firstly, the protection of civilians, humanitarian personnel and united nations personnel and facilities; to ensure the protection of civilians, including humanitarian personnel, under imminent threat of physical violence, in particular violence emanating from any of the parties engaged in the conflict’. another very relevant paragraph is paragraph g regarding the coordinated operations. it states ‘coordinate operations with the fardc – the army – integrated brigades deployed in the eastern part of the democratic republic of congo and support operations led by and jointly planned with these brigades in accordance with international humanitarian, human rights and refugee law with a view to’, etc. so the mandate is, in fact, very clear and what should be discussed are the rules of engagement. in fact, what monuc should do is look at its own rules of engagement, because it is up to them to decide how they will proceed. lastly, there is a lot of criticism also of international criminal justice. people are questioning whether this is compatible with politics. can you have international criminal justice, on the one hand, and proper political management of a crisis, on the other? that is a very interesting question. in the congo you see one of the answers. we have allowed bosco ntaganda to take over the leadership of the cndp from laurent nkunda, although there is a warrant against bosco ntaganda, and you see what happens. there is no such thing as a free lunch. you cannot choose between, on the one hand, management of a political crisis and, on the other hand, putting international criminal justice into practice. i think that, as the european parliament and as the european commission, the pre-eminence should go to the due application of international criminal justice.
acting president of the council. - thank you for your question. at the meeting of the general council on 7 and 8 december this year we adopted conclusions on enlargement and the stabilisation and association process. in its conclusions, the council welcomed serbia's commitment to eu integration and the work of implementing important reforms in line with european standards. the council also stressed the need to maintain the reform agenda. we noted the commission communication of 14 october, which states that the overall legal and institutional framework for respect for human rights is in place in serbia and that progress has been made in improving compliance with international human rights law. the new ministry of human rights and minority rights in serbia plays an important role in this work. however, further efforts are needed to increase understanding of international standards. the council also noted that serbia had ratified all the major human rights instruments. as regards the particular situation in southern serbia, to which the member refers, there were indeed some violent incidents in july. the gendarmerie on the spot was attacked. several arrests were made and since then no further incidents have occurred. the mood within the so-called 'coordination body for southern serbia' has improved in the meantime. it is fragile, but the main ethnic albanian political parties from the region participate in its activities. there are also hopeful developments in the sensitive field of education. i would like to mention in particular the opening of a university branch in medvedja, where teaching will be in serbian and albanian. a national council of the albanian minority in serbia will be set up in the near future. this gives the population greater influence in education, culture and other matters. the weak economic and social development of the region is a barrier for the ethnic minorities in southern serbia. the international community, in particular the osce, continues to monitor the situation in southern serbia and plays an active role in promoting peace and stability in the region in close cooperation with the serbian government and local leaders.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you for the very good answer. the three regions are two border regions - vojvodina and the southern serbian region of preschevo, the tri-countryside. i would also ask you, in your future role as commissioner, to ensure that these countries are further developed in the framework of the crossborder support programmes. the serbian interior, especially the sand dune around nowy pazar, is of course completely cut off. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. but especially in southern serbia there is a lot of violence. i ask the council to continue to deal with this explosive situation.
president-in-office of the council. − let me underline that it is not a lack of political will. we do understand the importance of this directive and we have been working really really hard to get it into place. but, as i have said, i cannot change the fact that we need unanimity, and the unanimity is not there. the swedish presidency and presidencies before us have worked to try to propose different compromises, different ways forward. there are lots of working groups meeting and working all the time; and they still are meeting. we will work on the issue until the end of our presidency. but, unfortunately, we do not have the unanimity yet. it would be unfortunate to separate the different parts of the directive because the whole purpose – and this was very much also encouraged by parliament – was to have a comprehensive directive on discrimination. if we start to pick up pieces, i think that thought would be lost and i think it would be deplorable. so let us try a little bit more to get the whole directive into place because that would be very valuable in the fight against discrimination, for disabled people but also for other discriminated people all around europe.
we must prevent discrimination, this is a social problem. we are all called upon to prevent discrimination of any kind. do you agree with me that there are no clear criteria against which to assess such discrimination, for example, when a landlord rents an apartment and an applicant complains that he has been discriminated against because he did not get that apartment? do you agree that a european directive can only address requests to the member states, who then have to transpose them into their national laws? europe is having a hard time getting a european law in place.
president-in-office of the council. − it is indeed a very important question. i would say that access to documents and transparency has increased considerably over the last ten years. this is due to regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, which is a very important regulation and i am proud to have been able to take part in the birth of this regulation. it is also how we implement it and it is about attitudes. they have improved during the last 10 years. lots of people in our european institutions have realised that transparency and openness is not dangerous. it is good. it is efficient. it is good for legitimacy and it also decreases the possibilities of wrongdoings and corruption. we still have work to do. the lisbon treaty presents us with new possibilities. i hope all incoming presidencies will use those possibilities in the best possible way. the commission said yesterday that they will come back with proposals arising from the lisbon treaty as to how we can move forward with transparency. there is still a lot to do, but we have come quite a long way. as the honourable member says, it is a constant fight, and i look forward to going along that fighting path together.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for raising these important questions. before responding to the individual questions, let me start with an overview. the objective of the professional qualifications directive is to facilitate the free movement of our citizens in the internal market. two years after the end of the transposition period, transposition is complete in 22 member states, and four member states will hopefully deliver by the end of the year. at this stage i am, however, concerned about greece, from which we have not received any transposition measure yet. let me now turn to the first question. the transposition has constituted a challenge for member states mainly because it affects more than 800 different professions. these professions have often even been regulated in federal or regional laws. however, this cannot be an excuse for any delays, and the court of justice has not accepted such delays in six judgments so far. concerning the second question, the main problems relate to the health professions and architects, where a higher degree of harmonisation of training requirements at european level is in place. problems also occur in professions with higher levels of cross-border mobility of workers such as teachers or tourist guides. on the third question, the priority of the commission is to ensure correct and consistent implementation of the directive. to this end, we have developed a code of conduct on administrative practices and a user guide addressed to citizens, which will also promote more consistency. as to the obstacles which solvit identified, we are fully aware of problems on the ground, such as delays occurring in the recognition procedure, lack of response from the national competent authorities, unsubstantiated decisions, lost files etc. sometimes erroneous information is even given to migrants and they are invited to follow wrong procedures. however, the solvit network has proven to be effective in solving many of these problems. but there is not only solvit. national contact points are now in place in all member states to inform and assist citizens, and the commission expects them to be even more active in the future. moreover, the internal market information system has also provided a medium for supporting more than 1 200 information exchanges for many of the regulated professions this year. this has brought about enhancements in day-to-day administrative cooperation between member states. finally, on the last question, the commission is not in a position to assess whether there is a need for reform at the moment. this will be done during an ex post evaluation exercise foreseen by the directive. our intention is certainly to respect the timetable set in the directive. it will be up to the next commission to decide how take this forward.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in 2005, after several years of work and debate in parliament, we had adopted this directive, and it came into force. in 2007, it was implemented. it is now 2009 and it is hard to accept that it has not been implemented everywhere, especially since the directive was not something completely new, but there were already templates. i can only encourage the commission to continue to put pressure on the member states. i would have thought the problems were more in practical handling. this is the main subject of the next period of research, where there are actually very concrete problems on the ground, what is happening in practice. it has already been pointed out that 20% of complaints in solvit deal with this issue, and this is very serious. mr harbour has rightly pointed out - i do not want to repeat this - the importance of this problem in economic terms for the internal market. but apart from the economy, it is also a basic right of freedom for citizens to be able to exercise and fulfil their profession in another country - for example, if they marry or move to another country for other reasons. this is a real, real citizen problem. now, of course, this is not without conflict. the matter is complex, it takes time, there are different cultures and traditions, especially in the professions and in the ideas about the quality and qualification of professions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. what i and we are concerned about is not so much tackling the individual cases of hardship that exist, but rather investigating - and this is where solvit is particularly helpful - whether there are flaws in the structures, in the system, and whether and how improvements can be made. i want to point out that this issue will never be closed. this is a real long-term challenge, because of course there are always new jobs and new job profiles. it is therefore a constant task for the commission and parliament. but i would also like to appeal to the goodwill of the member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would first like to say that it is incredibly impolite that no commissioner is here, because this is a question to the european commission. this is a disregard for parliament which is simply outrageous and which we cannot accept! (interruption of the debate) yes, please? yeah, he didn't get up. well, i'm sorry about that. i can't accept that. now to the point. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. it is a question of citizenship of the union, of people having the right to move freely within the european union and to pursue their professions where they live and reside and where they really want to work. that is why we have made these laws, to make this easier, so that the recognition of professional qualifications can be really advanced. i find it simply outrageous that in many cases the member states have not taken the necessary steps to actually implement this law and thus ensure that citizens can really enjoy this freedom of movement. the european commission has a lot of work to do. i would also like to draw attention to a point which is very important to me and which we have repeatedly raised in this parliament, namely that we must ensure that a point which we have proposed, namely that the european professional cards be developed so that citizens also have something at hand with which they can really move around europe, is actually put into practice. there are organizations that are trying to do this. but it would also be an important question for the european commission to ask whether it would not also like to take action to promote this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. i think we're all in agreement on the goal. we all want, of course, that citizens in europe should be able to move freely and to pursue their professions. the question is, of course, why this directive is still not being properly implemented after four years, and soon it will be five years. i think it makes sense that we as a committee not only participate in the preparation of the laws and in the legislation, but that we also analyse the reasons behind the delay in their implementation. the recognition of professional qualifications directive is not the only one that is causing problems. that is why it is a wake-up call for us when there are so many ecj cases, when there are so many appeal procedures, when solvit is too much concerned with this issue. then we need to look more closely at what's causing it. there are various causes. firstly, it is always very easy to say that the member states are hesitant. there are certainly reasons for protectionism. different cultures and legal systems certainly play a role too. and what effect does european legislation have on these different legal systems? we have to deal with that, too. we must also consider whether the directive has achieved exactly what it was intended to achieve or whether it has failed to achieve certain things from the point of view of the system. we must deal with this again, and i think this is very important. this ex ante analysis will be one of the main issues that this committee will be dealing with and where it needs to evolve. i have some questions for the commission. firstly, i wonder why this guide has been out for over four years. he could have come a lot sooner. he is welcome. i've read it through and i'm sure it's very helpful. but it would have been useful a long time ago. i would like to add my voice to mrs gebhardt's question about what will really become of these european professional certificates. because that would be the important second step.
the commission has already done so. first of all, i should like to thank the commission for presenting its views. i would like to point out, however, that under the interinstitutional agreement between the commission and parliament - i looked at this at the time in the services directive which we discussed in brussels months ago - we as a parliament have a right to have the commissioner responsible deal with difficult questions. i think that we cannot clarify this for the commission now and that it is pointless. i would like to make this point as an appeal by parliament to the commission representatives here that we consider this part of the interinstitutional agreement to be of the utmost importance. why would you do that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is of paramount importance, but it is often associated with a sense of helplessness for many people when they feel that their employer is using disagreements in the crossborder mutual recognition of professional qualifications solely to reduce earning opportunities. and these people feel - i have myself followed this in a number of cases here in the border area between germany and france, but of course this is not the only problem area - a bit left out and helpless. it is true that we cannot solve all the problems overnight and that this process will continue to be a continuing task in the future, as our rapporteur, mr kurt lechner, has pointed out. nevertheless, it is still our duty to take these citizens' concerns seriously, and i believe that this means that the commission must also attach the same importance to this. i hope that we will make progress together with the new commission on this point, and i would simply ask you to put this to the attention of the directorate-general responsible.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, my apologies for not standing up during my first intervention. it is because of lack of experience and the early morning hour. in general, i would like to refer to a couple of selected questions. first of all, we should underline that the commission has been supporting member states in preparing the transposition of the directive. where the transposition period has lapsed, we have also been vigorous in enforcing transposition. in 2007, we published a transposition guide. then we developed the internal market information system, which is now used quite intensively by all member states, and we also published a code of conduct on administrative practices in june this year. a year ago, the commission brought non-compliant member states to the european court of justice, and the court of justice issued six favourable judgments condemning the lack of transposition by the member states concerned. very recently, we published a scoreboard illustrating the state of transposition in the member states, as well as a user guide for citizens and the business community. to conclude, i would like to thank you for all the questions and comments, and especially the chair, malcolm harbour, for his valuable input. we believe that it is up to the member states to deliver now. the commission is looking forward to developing a special relationship with parliament also as regards this file. in particular, we are ready to actively discuss how the directive works in practice, and how to take best account of a swiftly changing environment in the coming years.
in writing. a stated objective of this directive is to fully implement the existing legislation on the free movement of professionals within the eu. the free movement of skilled workers was already decided in directive 2005/36/ec. but problems do arise, especially in the border regions. many people from my home region work in luxembourg, belgium or france. i have received numerous requests from citizens who are moving to the neighbouring country as part of their professional activities. the recognition of professional qualifications is very often one of these. this has to change. in some professions, the chambers have reached an agreement, but this does not help in all cases, and too often citizens have to fight for the recognition of their qualifications. the problem is particularly acute when certain occupations are not or are not run in the same way in the country in question. the first is the doctor of business administration. there is a shortage of skilled workers in many areas. the nurse or the toolmaker must have better opportunities in our labour markets in the future, and above all the internal market must be fully exploited in the field of labour. the recognition procedures must be transparent, simple and clear.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i wish i had given a more exciting introduction to the subject, because i believe that european cohesion policy will indeed have to change after 2013. we simply have different challenges than we did ten or fifteen years ago. the first is that we cannot negotiate solidarity between the regions. this means, on the one hand, that all regions must have the opportunity to participate in the cohesion policy of the european union in an appropriate way, and on the other hand, it also means that any attempt to renationalize cohesion policy must be rejected. this is a european approach and we need it. it is also an approach for citizens to identify with this european union. but for us, there is no question that we must change. the focus over the next few years will be on a discussion of the priorities that european cohesion policy must promote. we cannot continue to support everything and everyone with european funds. we must focus on the development of infrastructure, particularly in the new member states, on the development of research and innovation, and we must of course bear in mind that we will have to respond to challenges such as climate change, demographic change and globalisation with european cohesion policy in the future. it must be a task to focus on urban development. it is not because i do not want to deal with rural areas, but because we know that 80% of our citizens live in cities and urban areas and that, unfortunately, rural development is still separated from cohesion policy and is dealt with in the framework of agricultural policy. our approach is to add a stronger network here. i don't know if it's gonna work. but we should claim it. last but not least - and i regret that the commissioner's answer is a bit evasive - the support of the people is of course part of cohesion policy. and that means, for us, first and foremost, education, training, qualification, really from infancy to old age. lifelong learning is a keyword. but this also means, of course, that the european social fund must remain integrated into the field of cohesion policy and that no ideas should be pursued to separate the european social fund from this cohesion policy. crossborder cooperation is important to us. we want to have a strengthening here, just as we want to achieve a simplification of bureaucracy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commissioner has not said much about the importance of european cohesion policy in europe. it is the heart of the european union, because it is the policy that holds the eu together at its core. it is a symbol of solidarity and the overcoming of national egoism. it is an instrument for all regions. that is why there is great concern here in the european parliament that this solidarity mechanism will simply be cancelled out of hand. because it is not good governance if the commission secretly launches strategic papers instead of having a public debate on how we can continue the solidarity mechanism in the face of the great challenges, namely the challenge of climate change, demographic change, and all this with tight budgetary funds. we need reform. but reform must be different. it must ensure that there is sustainable development in the regions. it must support the regions in their projects and not make a top-down policy there, as this earmarking mechanism is now, but it must develop a button-up process in close partnership with all the actors in the regions. we know the process. we have the leader method of rural development. this is a great way to promote sustainable development and to involve everyone in order to achieve a very large local acceptance. however, we need the courage of a commission that says yes to the solidarity mechanism, that says yes to the fact that the regions are the ones who determine what development they take, and that this does not just go through the national governments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. let us imagine the european regions for a moment without a european regional policy. many cities and rural regions would lose key impetus for structural change. we would leave the border regions alone with the problems of border commuters and cross-border infrastructure. social policy could no longer benefit from european contributions to education and employment policy. we would deny smes the opportunity to successfully integrate into international networks. europe without regional policy would mean that the community would lose face in the regions. we are therefore more than irritated by the commission's signals, which suggest social programmes without the structural funds. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european social fund is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. whether these commission documents are public or not, the european parliament will not support the path of regional policy without the regions indicated in them. that does not mean that we are not open to reform. we must and can integrate these new challenges in the environment, energy policy or demographic change into the established support structures. i am also in favour of making the european contribution more measurable in the regions. and we must punish more severely those member states which repeatedly fail to demonstrate that they are properly managing their resources. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security is a very good one. but we will resist all attempts to destroy regional policy. reforms yes, but not renationalisation!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. regional and structural aid are part of practical economic policy and make europe visible on the ground. in the municipalities, in the cities and communities, in the regions, there are actors who work very closely together. we should therefore also keep this integrated approach for the whole of the european union. i would ask the commission to pay much more attention to small and mediumsized enterprises in future cohesion policy and to involve the local authorities, the cities and the municipalities in the future cohesion policy. we will certainly need to invest in infrastructure in the future, but above all we should also make it possible to ensure that innovation and technology transfer are guaranteed for small and mediumsized enterprises. and we should also make it possible to promote jobs in the future. this is what is now at stake in the reorientation of the european union's structural and cohesion policies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the present debate is a key debate on the nature of the european union. the question is, market or social policy? the commission's present thinking on the future of cohesion policy is unacceptable. the structural funds must be strengthened and not reduced. europe must do more, not less, to overcome the differences in economic and social development. i 'll be honest with you . renationalisation of parts of the current cohesion policy would have serious repercussions for disadvantaged regions, including in germany, for example in eastern germany. the last round of enlargement of the european union has indeed led to a widening of the disparities between the regions of the union. i also think it is important that special socioeconomic conditions be recognised in regions which are just above the 75% threshold of gdp per inhabitant. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following companies: of course, the strengthening of the european union's support for specific urban areas is also extremely important, since there is great potential for the economy and for finance, since the crisis has also hit them particularly hard. a final word on the border regions. as a member of the east german parliament, i say to you that we must invest a great deal, do a great deal. i am very worried that the commission is failing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. regional structural assistance is an essential instrument of european integration, and in particular objective 2 assistance has been perceived by the people in the past as a motor for local structural and economic development in many regions. it is an important element in coping with structural change in the regions and also in the municipalities. here, europe is really experienced by the citizens on the ground, because it also acts on the ground. but we need simpler, clearer and more transparent structures for the cohesion funds and better controls to ensure that the funds are used sustainably and efficiently. cohesion, that is to say convergence in social and economic development, is a major objective in the eu, and that is why we must not weaken this instrument in the future, but strengthen it. the cohesion policy in europe needs more clarity, more transparency, more efficiency and also the self-responsibility of the individual member states. and that is why it is important to stick to the system of additive subsidies. we do not want to see the structural funds renationalized. i would therefore ask the commission to make the 2013 eligibility criteria meet these requirements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i have two motions for a resolution. i ask that they be placed in order. first, i have a request for the entire house. it concerns an emergency which we are discussing this afternoon. the case is aminatou haidar. we have an emergency on the agenda this afternoon. i ask the honourable members to give me their confidence in the following approach: some of my colleagues who are working very closely on this case know - and i cannot go into more detail on this now - but i am one of those who know that it is imminent that we will have a solution to this case here today. prominent eu government officials are working on a positive solution. it would therefore make sense for us to remove this urgency from the agenda this afternoon, because any further debate would only hinder the work being done by some diplomatic channels there. that is why i would ask the house to agree that we should take this urgency off the agenda as an exception, because it would help us to solve the case more than if we were discussing it. that would be my first request, mr president. the second request will be made immediately afterwards.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have been responsible for the human rights debates in this house for many years in my group. i'm treating this case with great care. i should like to say that i had a very long conversation with the moroccan foreign minister on this matter last sunday. i have the impression that today we have the opportunity to end mrs haidar's hunger strike and find a solution for her. if i felt that i could make a public statement that would help solve this case, i would make that public statement. but because i believe that in such complicated diplomatic cases, discretion is the solution to the problem, i ask my colleagues to contribute with the necessary discretion to save this woman. that's my only wish.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm very sorry to have to use the house's patience once again. we have on the voting list today the vote on the principles of subsidiarity. i would ask, on the basis of rule 177 (4), that we postpone the vote on this item until the next part-session and consider the admissibility of the decision on this item. i believe that there is a great deal of agreement in this house that the principles of subsidiarity and fundamental rights are guaranteed. but there is no point in taking it to the level of the european union. i would also like to expressly say on behalf of my italian colleagues that the debate taking place in italy is an italian debate and not a european one, and that my colleagues, like us, are defending diversity and plurality. but there's no point in doing that in such a resolution. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) mr president, it is astonishing that the groups which are running democracy in their own name do not even know the democratic principle of letting a speaker finish. i ask, pursuant to rule 177 (4), that the vote be postponed until the next part-session and that the admissibility of the resolution and the vote be reviewed. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i ask that, after the urgency has been dropped - we had a hard time yesterday on the urgency - the speaking time for the western sahara item be distributed between the other two urgencies. that was my practical suggestion for this afternoon. i'm asking you to take it, because we have an hour of urgency.
i have to say, madam president, i repeat my request: i'm glad i'm always helping my colleagues out of their slumber. it's for circulation. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position on the matter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first, the plea in law is in the chamber. i would point out that we have just voted on a report, the cashman report, where we are preparing a report as a parliament on an ongoing legislative procedure. our own legal service has said it is inadmissible, and yet the socialists have insisted on doing it. i would point out that when we were talking about media freedom in italy and the commissioner responsible said that the european union had no competence, the socialists nevertheless insisted on taking action against berlusconi. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's why we shouldn't give in to it. the second argument is, however, one that deserves serious discussion: are we competent to deal with the question of the convention on human rights? i would like to point out to my colleagues that the new treaty of lisbon will see the european union accede to the convention on human rights. i would like to say that, if it is legitimate for the italian parliament to discuss this because the italian republic is a member of the convention on human rights, then it is also legitimate for the european parliament, as a member of the convention on human rights, to discuss this in the future. the third and final argument is that we are not lawyers here, we are politicians. millions of people are moved by this verdict, and that is why we should vote on it today. (applause from the centre)
in writing. − transparency is important and is becoming more important in times of globalisation. i therefore support the efforts to increase transparency, particularly at eu level. but it has to be balanced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this motion for a resolution fails to strike the right balance between the need for transparency and the need for sound administration or parliamentary activity at eu level. the current version would no longer guarantee the confidentiality of the word, the privacy of citizens in their inquiries, would call into question data protection, would not foresee the consequences for our security and the monetary policy of the ecb and would create a bureaucracy for the administration and members that is out of proportion to the objective.
thank you very much, madam. i cannot give you an answer to that because i do not know any more than the chairman of the political group did this afternoon.
i'm sorry, but i have to go. it was a request under rule 140 of the rules of procedure, which allows for amendments to the agenda. i am very sorry that i can only accept motions for resolutions. we will not be returning to this debate. i would point out that i shall withdraw the floor from everyone immediately if the debate is resumed.
is there any further word on the rules of procedure?
mr president, that was a very short question. but it was not a point of order.
i would like to answer that question, since the questions relate to that point. the rules of procedure provide that the agenda may be amended under certain conditions, including 'on a proposal from the president'. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is in accordance with the rules of procedure.
mr tannock, mr schulz's motion is the more advanced one. therefore, your request was superfluous.
i have explained to you my view of the rules of procedure. that is why the procedure is in accordance with the rules of procedure. i cannot see that there are more and new motions for a resolution. i beg your indulgence. we have two other important points. i am not going to go into the details of the procedure. but i would point out that i shall withdraw my speech if that is not the case.
mr salafranca, i am extremely sorry to hear that. but we shall not be able to examine the motives of the members of this house this afternoon. the question of what information has been received this afternoon can no longer be on the agenda. i shall therefore now move on to the agenda. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that rule 140 does not apply to the urgency procedure and i ask you to have it considered by the rules committee because it is a dangerous precedent.
i'm happy to take that suggestion. but that was not a point of order either.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on uganda on the draft law banning homosexuality.
madam president, you had 12 seconds left. if you had read a little slower, more colleagues would have enjoyed an even better translation. i would advise those of you who are reading speeches anyway to perhaps make their speeches available to interpreters beforehand. this also contributes to the quality of the interpretation.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is deeply concerned over the draft anti-homosexuality bill introduced recently in the ugandan parliament. the bill, if adopted, raises serious human rights issues which are of great importance to the commission. the commission considers that the penalisation of homosexuality, as foreseen in the bill, would go against the un human rights conventions. uganda has ratified these conventions. thereby it has the legal obligation to respect them, without distinction or discrimination. domestic legislation must be consistent with international human rights obligations. the bill would also go against the eu-supported un declaration on sexual orientation and gender identity of 18 december 2008 regarding the decriminalisation of homosexuality. commissioner de gucht personally raised these concerns in a letter to president museveni last november. he emphasised that respect for human rights is of the greatest importance to the commission and to the european parliament. however, he expressed his confidence to the president that, under his guidance, such retrogressive legislation will not be allowed. the presidency and the heads of mission in uganda also raised this issue with the ugandan government on several occasions, during meetings with the prime minister and the minister of justice, in article 8 meetings, and with the uganda human rights commission. in its latest démarche on 3 december, the eu presidency and the local troika met the acting foreign minister, to whom they again expressed these serious concerns, confirmed their support for fundamental freedoms and reminded uganda of its international obligations. the minister, while mentioning traditional values and cultural traditions that take time to change and alleging evidence of orchestrated campaigns to take advantage of poor people and recruit them into homosexuality, took note of the eu positions and committed himself to reporting them personally to the cabinet and to parliament in order to enable them to take an informed decision. the commission hopes that, in the vein and in the spirit of the ongoing eu-uganda partnership, these démarches, together with those of others, will lead to a review of the proposed legislation to make it compatible with international principles of non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on freedom of expression in azerbaijan.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have had the honour, after the first european elections in 1979, of helping otto von habsburg, who is gravely ill, to build up this human rights tradition of the european parliament, including these urgent debates on thursday afternoons. in 1994 i was elected to the european parliament and had the honour of developing this human rights tradition, which we are rightly proud of, with mr schulz and a number of others. that is why i was shocked when mr provera, referring to mr schulz, who did not deserve this, said that this case should not be taken up and that the azerbaijani regime had threatened the azerbaijani civil rights activists and said that they would suffer. the human rights prize was mentioned earlier today. i remember very well when we were campaigning for andrei sakharov or vytautas landsbergis or other civil rights activists, that they also said: 'please, don't interfere, we'll do this diplomatically, you'll only do harm! we now know that it was crucial for these people that parliament should have spoken out clearly. so please, mr schulz and colleagues, let us continue to cherish this independence of thursday afternoons. i say to the group chairmen: let us not get in the way. this has nothing to do with party politics. in the last meeting, a colleague said that we have a meeting with china soon, we cannot talk about china. today it was a different subject, western sahara. in some cases it may even be justified. but i am seriously concerned about our human rights work and, ladies and gentlemen, azerbaijan is proving the importance of a differentiated approach. the country was a soviet colony. they built monocultures, they destroyed it, and they handed it over to a brutal regime. today, it is beginning to democratize with difficulty. as a member of the council of europe, it has committed itself to human rights and we must help it to continue along this path! (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. − mr president, azerbaijan is important to the european union as an energy producer and transit country, and also as a contributor to regional stability in the southern caucasus. azerbaijan is one of the six partner countries under the eastern partnership, and we attach great importance to respect for the common values underpinning this relationship. a partnership and cooperation agreement has been in place for 10 years. however, azerbaijan has expressed its interest in building closer relations with the european union by concluding an association agreement to replace it. following the decision of the eu foreign affairs ministers in september to start preparations for concluding such agreements with the southern caucasus countries, discussions on the negotiation directives, including for azerbaijan, are now ongoing. in line with the council’s decision, the start of negotiations for all the southern caucasus countries will be conditional on sufficient progress in meeting the necessary political conditions, namely the rule of law and respect for human rights, the principles of the market economy, as well as sustainable development and good governance. each year we draw an in-depth and balanced assessment setting out progress made by each partner country to implement their action plans under the european neighbourhood policy. we have just started the preparatory work for the 2009 report. i do not want to pre-empt our report but would like to make a few remarks, particularly on the situation regarding fundamental freedoms and human rights. in our 2008 report we stated that ‘azerbaijan has made good progress in economic development, but continues to show a poor record of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law’. since then we have unfortunately seen some negative developments, including changes to the constitution, the abolition of limits on the mandate of the head of state, as well as the detention and subsequent condemnation of two bloggers. negative developments also include the continued persecution of human rights defenders, opposition activists and journalists, in addition to further deterioration of media freedom. the european union has, in its various contacts, taken up these issues at all levels with the authorities and will continue to do so. at the same time, the commission is mobilising a wide range of tools to assist azerbaijan to meet the challenges of a new agreement. we are using assistance under the enpi instrument. we provide targeted support under the comprehensive institution-building programme. this will have important elements related to the rule of law and independence of the judiciary. azerbaijan will also benefit from assistance under the european initiative for democracy and human rights. lastly, under the existing partnership and cooperation agreement, we are proposing to set up a subcommittee dedicated to justice, freedom and security, and human rights and democracy. this will constitute an important and additional forum for communicating our messages.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the voting time.
ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of the last session of the year. i am pleased that the new colleagues have been very well integrated into the work during this six-month period. i wish you a blessed christmas and a good start to 2010, and i wish you all to be able to say at the end of this year 2010 that it was a good year. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.10 p.m.)
