for the pse group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. when the commission proposal was published, it provoked a headline in a major danish newspaper. the front page of the newspaper said: "the eu threatens danish groundwater". in denmark we are very proud of the fact that we have a lot of clean groundwater that we can drink completely untreated. so the water that comes out of the tap is groundwater, and we can drink it contaminated. if the commission's proposal as originally put forward had been implemented, it would have meant that we in denmark would have had to approximately double the number of pesticides on the market. it would also very likely have meant that many of them would have been swept underground. pesticides which we have today rejected because they would seep into the groundwater and lead to us not being able to drink the polluted water. of course, that would have been a disaster! it is not just denmark that it would have been a disaster if the commission's original proposal had been adopted. just as we have groundwater, which we want to take care of in my country, and which i am using as an example here, there are of course other countries which have various other things that we want to protect in terms of the environment and health, and it must never be the eu which forces a country to have a lower level of protection. that is why i am very, very glad that it has been successful. not because of the commission, not because of the council, but because of parliament! to ensure flexibility so that individual countries, when there are particular considerations to be taken into account, can of course say no to pesticides which they do not want. another very positive thing that i am extremely glad we have got through is that we are now getting banned, getting phased out some of the most dangerous substances that are contained in pesticides. it is about things that we have already banned in other applications in the regulation we made a few years ago called reach. these are substances which are so dangerous that we will not allow them in clothing, we will not allow them in electronics, we will not allow them in toys and all sorts of other uses, but which are still allowed in pesticides that end up in our food! this is of course completely unacceptable, and it is therefore a great pleasure that we are now getting rid of these dangerous substances in pesticides. the third point i would like to mention, which i think is extremely positive and which we can welcome, is that we are now getting reduction targets in the individual countries. we shall put in place action plans through which the individual countries will achieve a reduction in the use of pesticides, both qualitatively and quantitatively. qualitatively, it is clear that some substances are more dangerous than others, and we must of course be particularly careful with them, but it is also a good idea to reduce the use quantitatively, that is to say the total use of pesticides, because this will of course also lead to a reduction in the use of these substances, which end up in our nature and in our food. i must also say in conclusion that there are things that could have been done much better. for example, the neurotoxic drugs. so these are drugs that damage the developing brains of children. i think that we are not phasing them out, and that is unambitious, and i think it is sad. i also think it is sad that there are possibilities for exceptions to these dangerous substances if industry can show that there is a need for it. i think we should have been more ambitious. but at the end of the day, i'm happy and content. it's a victory for health and the environment.
in writing. - anne e. jensen and niels busk have voted in favour of the mcguiness own-initiative report on the common agricultural policy and global food security, as the majority of the report is excellent and it is only possible to vote for or against. however, we cannot support paragraphs 63 and 64 which cast doubt on free trade in agricultural products. we are strong supporters of free trade and believe that it is absolutely right to work towards the establishment of free market principles in trade in agricultural products.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of pesticides, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of pesticides. we believe that a balanced approach to the global food supply is necessary, but that neither the maintenance nor the extension of eu agricultural aid will contribute to this.
mr president, it is to complete the text of this amendment. after the text which reads ‘12 december 2006’, we simply wish to add: ‘and on 4 and 17 december 2008’. this is because there were decisions by the court on these later dates, and it would not be correct to mention the decision in 2006 without mentioning the latest findings of the court in december 2008.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i just want to say two things. the first is that i would remind you that our resolution expressly states and has repeatedly stated that we have postponed our support for upgrading, and i very much hope that it will not be the words of the presidency that will decide that we will simply continue as if nothing had happened. the second is that israel has never delivered what it has promised in the negotiations. there was no ceasefire because israel did not lift its blockade at all during that period, and it should also be said here that after annapolis, where israel had promised to stop the settlements, what happened? they simply increased the rate of settlement. no settlement has been built so fast since annapolis. and i think that as long as there is no progress on the ground, we will never get hamas to behave in accordance with the rules we want, and that is why we must ensure that israel does its part of it.
the alde group is not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i must say that i am a little disappointed that after four years we have not yet seen a proposal from the commission on how to tighten up the legislation on animal transport. there has been good intentions and positive cooperation between mr kyprianou and now mrs vassiliou and parliament. but when do we get a play? i'd like to know. it is also important that we get proper enforcement of the law. it is important that we ensure that we limit the transport time of animals for slaughter to the eight hours. but we have to move on. we are not just talking about a time limit. research shows that an hour may be too long if the animal is not strong enough to be transported, and longer transports may be ok if the animal is strong and quick and transported under good conditions. we will probably continue to transport breeding animals over long distances, and parliament has proposed a pilot project for resting stations where the animals will rest after 24 hours. i'd like to hear how this project for resting stations is going. the idea is to bring together operators of inspection stations, veterinary authorities, scientists and animal welfare organisations to define what is good practice here. it is difficult to get such a project off the ground, but it is worth the effort, because it is important that our knowledge and research on animal welfare during transport is also reflected in legislation and in practical reality.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i voted for the laperrouze report, but i also voted for a number of amendments, all of which called into question the a-power as the energy source of the future. they fell! in voting for the whole report, i support its many good elements, but i also recognise that a majority see a-power as part of europe's carbon-free energy mix. i still do not think that this is the solution for the future. the solution of the future is a massive investment and development of renewable energy.
i have to say, madam president, the report also stresses that the prevention of climate change must be part of our whole thinking when we work with relevant areas of law such as agriculture, fisheries, construction, development and foreign policy. climate policy cannot stand alone; it must be integrated into all our legislation. eu leaders decided almost two years ago that the eu should take the lead in securing a global climate agreement in copenhagen. it won't be long. we have now adopted our climate package here in the european parliament. it could have been more ambitious, but it is there and we must now support the european negotiators so that they can achieve an ambitious goal in copenhagen. the package takes us to 2020, but with this report we are stressing the need to plan for what is to come after 2020. the eu governments must take note of this. we need to think long-term. the financial crisis does not make it any easier, but we must see the financial crisis as a dynamic challenge. let us use the crisis as an opportunity to kick-start the much-needed development of renewable energy and energy-saving technologies. let us create new jobs in the green industries of the future rather than protecting jobs in the industries of yesterday. finally, i am pleased that the need to ratify the lisbon treaty is underlined, since the fight against climate change at international level must be a specific objective of the eu under the lisbon treaty.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. we are of course in favour of member states consulting each other on possible impacts on public security throughout the eu if member states wish to receive prisoners.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i should like to begin by expressing my great satisfaction with the motion for a resolution and my thanks to mr lagendijk for his great efforts. the result is a well-balanced and well-pointered text, which manages to address all the main issues. with this resolution, the european parliament is sending a signal first of all to the people of kosovo and to the people of the other countries of the western balkans: 'you are not forgotten, you are part of europe'. it is not just a declaration of intent without any real content. the eulex mission, the largest mission to date under the common european security and defence policy, has already been launched. it is gratifying that the mission is supported by the un and that it covers the whole country. we in the european parliament support this mission in our resolution on kosovo. we also identify areas where eu countries can assist kosovo. this applies in particular to support for the construction of public administration, training projects and the strengthening of civil society. when we point out areas where kosovo's leaders need to improve, for example in the protection of minorities, it is because we mean it when we say that we will support kosovo in its efforts to create a democratic society. a democratic society with respect for minorities and in peaceful coexistence with its neighbours. this is not just about the future of kosovo, but the future of the whole of the balkans and europe. the road ahead is long and it will be difficult. there is only one road, and that road is towards the eu and towards full and complete integration of kosovo, as well as the rest of the western balkans, into european cooperation.
mr president, we found that it would not be fair to mention just one of the parties, so we would like to take out the reference to the kosovo authorities. the amendment would then read: ‘underlines the importance of full regional economic cooperation and the obligation to comply with and fully implement the provisions of the cefta agreement’.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament - poul nyrup rasmussen, britta thomsen, christel schaldemose, dan jørgensen and ole christensen - abstained from voting on the van den burg report on reduced vat. the delegation is of the opinion that a reduced vat in denmark would have a very modest employment effect combined with a problematic loss of revenue for the state. however, in the light of the current economic crisis, there may be a different need in other eu member states to use the vat tool as part of a national crisis package, thereby boosting employment in hard hit sectors. we already have very different vat rates and therefore we will not block other eu countries from going down this road. this may also have a positive effect on demand in the danish economy.
in writing. − even though there are contentious elements in the cia resolution, like welcoming the eu-us agreements on judicial cooperation and extradition, i still voted in favour of the resolution to support human rights and the attempt to shed light on the extraordinary renditions programme.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. mr surján has chosen 'security' as the title of the 2010 budget. the word 'security' in its broadest sense: mitigation of financial crisis, economic crisis, the importance of employment and economic security, security of energy supply, safe transport, security and safety of citizens in relation to the problems created by immigration, the problems posed by demographic trends with fewer young people to support more elderly, the need for better environmental protection, the need to combat terrorism and the need to promote security and safety through the eu's role in the world. the heading 'security' shows the many areas where the eu budget is important and how important it is that the budget reflects needs. 2010 will be an exciting year for the eu budget in many ways. for the structural funds, 2010 is the first year in which the so-called 'n+3 rule' may become applicable. appropriations not committed within three years of the programming period will be cancelled. so we shall now see whether the member states have been able to disburse the appropriations on time. i certainly do not hope that the 'sunset clause', the n+3 rule, will become a reality, but if it does, there is reason to look again at whether the rules for structural fund funds are sufficiently flexible and unbureaucratic. foreign policy will be a difficult issue in 2010, as in previous years. i would appeal to the commission to find the necessary appropriations, even though the ceiling for this category of expenditure is very tight. in the committee on budgets we have had a number of discussions on the position on eu support for the nabucco gas pipeline. i would like to emphasize that this is a point to which we in the alde group attach great importance. energy security must be ensured by a variety of initiatives, but we want special support for nabucco, which is a project independent of gasprom. the budget process is going to be quite difficult this year. it's an election year. the reports by mr maňka and mr surján are the only opportunity that parliament has to give its opinion on the budget. the newly elected parliament will be the one to conduct the actual budget negotiations. it is not easy to maintain the procedure we carried out last year with mrs haug as rapporteur and with the strong involvement of the trade committees. we must do our utmost to ensure that the process is as open and structured as possible, and i welcome your statement, commissioner, that you will do the same. i think that mr surján and mr maňka have both made a good statement on this.
in writing. the aim of this proposal, according to the commission, is to improve the framework conditions for business in the eu's internal market. this is done by allowing companies to choose their registered office in an eu country independently of where their actual activities are carried out and to be bound only by the laws of the place of their registered office. this opens a floodgate for the circumvention of acquired workers' rights in the eu member states. the truth is concrete. so let me be specific. a danish limited company with its registered office in copenhagen and 35 employees is obliged under danish law to accept that the employees elect representatives to the management of the company. this gives employees a certain insight into the company's situation and future. if the proposal is adopted unchanged, the company concerned can simply register as a european company with its registered office in finland. then suddenly, it takes over 150 employees to get employee representation. and in most other eu countries, it is even worse. perhaps the commission's proposal will be improved a little in the coming negotiations. maybe the final adoption will be a little less bad. still, the question must be asked, why? why does the commission keep on putting forward proposals whose sole purpose is to weaken the rights of workers? could it be that there is something fundamentally wrong with the eu?
the commission is not - madam president, i am both proud and pleased to be here tonight to present the own-initiative report on safety in online gambling. as you know, the question of gambling has always been extremely controversial in the european parliament. gaming was removed from the scope of the services directive, just as it was removed from the e-commerce directive, and it was also removed from the tv without frontiers directive. and why is that? i think most of us would agree that gambling is an economic service - as the court of justice has also held - but gambling is a very specific economic service. we cannot compare it to playing online games, to buying a kettle, or to getting a carpenter to lay a floor, and therefore it must be treated separately. the member states have done so in the past. they have regulated strictly, and they have done so to protect consumers from gambling addiction, from fraud, from match-fixing, but they have also done so to prevent money laundering, and they have also had a desire to maintain law and order. but games aren't just games. indeed, online gambling presents a number of specific challenges that land-based gambling does not, in particular because it is cross-border and because it provides extremely easy access. the debate on the report has at times been more heated than i would have liked. we have been very divided on the question of whether playing online is associated with a higher risk of, for example, becoming addicted to gambling. and i'm actually a little surprised, because the numbers speak a very clear language. a study from sweden, among others, shows that the risk of developing a gambling addiction is five to seven times higher when playing poker online than when playing poker in the physical world. but i'll be the first to admit that we don't know all the consequences for consumers of gambling online. and that is one of the areas where we have actually been able to agree on something. we agree that we need more knowledge on how best to protect consumers. but there are six messages in particular in the report that i would like to highlight here tonight: 1. there is a clear majority in imco who believe that online gambling operators must comply with the gambling laws not only of the member state in which they provide their service but also of the place where the consumer lives. 2. that there should be political rather than judicial clarity on how we tackle the challenges and problems in the european online gambling market. 3. that cooperation between the member states be considerably strengthened. 4. that there is a need to develop standards for how we protect consumers from fraud, from gambling addiction, etc. 5. that more research is needed in this area; and finally the european parliament fully supports the initiatives and the process initiated by the council, and we call on the commission to support it as well. on the whole, i think the report is helping to move the playing field back into the political space where it belongs. the report is balanced and indeed received a great deal of support in the committee, despite the fact that it is a sensitive subject. it was passed by 32 votes to 10. there is an alternative decision by a minority in imco. i have tried to incorporate as many of their views as possible into the report, but the political differences are so fundamental that it has not been possible to get everything in. i thank my colleagues for their support and hope that there will be a large majority for my report tomorrow.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. thank you, mr president! i would like to express my support for the excellent report by mr michael cashman. the commission's 2008 review of the transparency initiative makes it more difficult for the public to access documents in the eu. if this report is adopted, a lot will be corrected. however, we still need to have an insight into the consultative working groups of the commission. according to a survey by the alter-eu organisation just before christmas, only two thirds of the members of the working groups involved in drafting eu legislation have been adequately identified. this is completely unacceptable. as a citizen, i need to know whether the tobacco industry lobby or the health organizations are advising the commission when it comes to making an initiative to improve public health. i also need to know whether the chemical industry or environmental organisations are at the table when a water plan is drawn up in the eu.
mr president, in the text on the voting list there is a comma between ‘terrorism’ and ‘immigration’, when we had agreed a semi-colon. you could not hear this when mr surján read his text. we would like to have that semi-colon between ‘terrorism’ and ‘immigration’.
in writing. - meps anne e. jensen, karin riis-jørgensen and niels busk of the left group voted in favour of liberal group amendment no 96 to delete article 16 (4) because spreading manure is not in line with the objective of the ippc, which aims to combat emissions from large industrial installations. in addition, the subject is already covered by the water framework directive (2000/60/ec) and the nitrates directive (91/676/eec).
in writing. − the schaldemose report on the integrity of online gambling sets out member states' responsibilities in regulating their gambling markets so as to protect vulnerable consumers, especially children, to tackle crime and to protect sporting events from risks such as match-fixing. gambling was removed from the services directive by meps on account of its special status, and there is clearly no willingness to create eu-level legislation. labour meps therefore strongly support the report's call for member states to regulate their gambling markets to protect consumers. the report also makes clear that such regulation must be proportionate and non-discriminatory, as set out in the eu treaties. as such, labour meps believe that the uk gambling act represents treaty-compliant legislation that aims to ensure fair and open access to gambling services, while preventing crime and protecting children and the vulnerable. a number of member states are currently reviewing their legislation on gambling to ensure it is compliant with the eu treaties. labour meps emphasise that authorities across the eu must remain vigilant and cooperate against all risks of crime, match-fixing, and threats to young people and the vulnerable from all forms of gambling. labour meps welcome continued efforts by reputable operators of online gambling services to take action to ensure such concerns are met.
in writing. - meps anne e. jensen, karin riis-jørgensen and niels busk of the left party voted in favour of the petre report on food quality on the basis of a balancing act and because there is only one vote. there are most things we can support in the report, but there are also a number of things we cannot support.
the alde group is not in favour of this. thank you, mr president. i too would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the result we have achieved here and to thank the french presidency for its efforts. the result we have achieved is a great success for the environment and for european shipping. in recent years, the eu has been largely setting the standard for the environmental impact of shipping through legislation and the work of the international maritime organisation (imo). shipping is global and for the sake of fair competition and the environment, it is important to have common rules at global level. but the eu can help to take the lead and set the standard by calling for stricter rules. and we must ensure that the eu countries really comply with the imo agreements. and that is what we are doing with the package of legislation that is being finalised here. the seven directives in the third maritime safety package will prevent pollution, ensure a better coordinated response when disaster strikes and prevent bad ships from gaining access to eu waters. i have followed the port state control directive and the shipwreck investigation directive in particular as my party's shadow rapporteur and i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mrs vlasto and mr kohlíček, for their skillful and successful work. we have a better way of checking ships, so that the worst ships are checked the most, and we have a breakdown of accidents, which means legal protection for those who are questioned, the witnesses, but also means that the things we learn from the accident report can be used in the future and exchanged between countries.
for the uen group. thank you, mr president. yes, there is reason to express the utmost satisfaction with the maritime package, and there is reason for our group to thank the rapporteur, the commission and the council for the great work they have done in this area. now specifically ship inspections are mainly concerned with large ships, and i would point out a problem with small ships. we have very competent bodies to carry out checks, but we do not have sufficiently clear rules for the seaworthiness of these vessels and for when checks are carried out. this is particularly true of fishing vessels, small fishing vessels which are converted either for continued fishing or for tourist purposes. weight gain, increased engine size and consequently altered centre of gravity and reduced seaworthiness are common. and we have in my country (denmark) several tragic accidents because of that. it is necessary to make it an absolute requirement that every vessel, new or converted, must undergo a seaworthiness check. i therefore ask the commission, as does mr costa, to extend the rules on inspection and approval to these types of vessels as soon as possible.
mr president, this is the worst crisis since 1929 and it is getting worse: unemployment is in free fall now. what i said to the president of the commission a couple of months ago was: ‘please do not oversell what the european council decided in december 2008. please do not paint too rosy a picture of europe.’ however, that is exactly what you are doing. you have not made a financial stimulus of 3.3% in europe – you have not! when you talk about automatic stabilisers, it is already in the prognosis. according to the commission in january, the prognosis is -2%; now the european central bank tells us it is -3%. when you talk about a financial stimulus of 1.5%, it is not 1.5%, because, according to the bruegel institute, it will be 0.9%, which is documented. now we have the following situation: we are not taking care of employment, unemployment is in free fall, and your stimulus in europe is not 3.3% but 0.9%. if you are now telling us to wait for better times and if you agree with jean-claude juncker, who said yesterday that we have done enough, then i say: you have not done enough – people expect more from europe than you are saying today. my point is the following: in a few weeks you will meet mr obama, the new president of the united states. he is coming with an investment package of 1.8% to his gross national product. we are coming with less than half. how could you imagine that europe would put itself in a position where we are the ones who are doing less than our american friends, and where we are the ones who are demanding more of our american friends? how could you imagine respect for the european union? what i am saying is that we need to do more and we need to devise a comprehensive plan, which will cover the summit on 19 march – which is nine days from now – the summit in london, on 2 april, the summit on employment in may in prague and the june summit. i appeal to you, president of the commission, to make a comprehensive, new recovery effort. if we do not do that, we will lose. it is not about getting better times next year: this is a fundamental world crisis that we need to take seriously. my final point concerns solidarity. the time has come not to accept new demarcation lines between those who have been members of the european union for many years and those who came to the european union with a promise that this would be a better time for ordinary people. let us now avoid new economic demarcation lines between the new ones and the old ones. let us show solidarity in real terms. that is why i ask you, president of the commission, to consider new financial possibilities to help our new friends – eurobonds is one possibility, the european investment bank is another. please, take it seriously and let us not do too little too late, like they did in japan, but let us show that europe is about people, europe is about showing solidarity with the weakest countries in this union.
i have to say, madam president, i believe that turkey should be a member of the european union. the criticism of turkey is justified on many points, but the trickery and excuses must stop and a serious plan must be drawn up to bring turkey into the eu. it will take time, but the country must be involved and we should say so clearly and with commitment. instead of a pseudo-debate about democracy in turkey, there is a need for a real and open debate about the place religion can and should play in the social debate. we must create a european cooperation capable of meeting the challenge of a europe made up of different religions. we must do this without losing the central values and the inviolability of the human person, which are the result of european values created in the melting pot of jewish, christian and hellenistic culture in the centuries before and after the birth of christ.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, it is important to have this debate because we are now facing a longer break in our work because of the elections. we therefore need to ensure that the directorate-general for trade takes note of our longstanding criticism of the content of the partnership agreements, especially as the directorate-general is about to sign these agreements. we must stress the importance of returning the agreements to parliament for our blessing. i would like to make it clear on behalf of the green group that we are questioning first and foremost the way in which these agreements have been concluded. the development aspect has not been taken into account in the negotiations with the acp countries. i have a few specific comments on the two agreements which parliament is to approve on wednesday, and i will explain why the green group does not support them. the agreement with cariforum: in-depth analyses by the overseas development institute show that the partnership agreement with the caribbean countries is probably the least development-friendly of all the agreements negotiated on the spot so far. it will be a poor model for negotiating other regional agreements, especially when it comes to development. it is not for us to judge whether our concern is justified when the governments of cariforum themselves are in favour of the agreements, but it would be appropriate if the parliaments of the individual countries concerned were allowed to vote in favour of the agreements before the european parliament gave its blessing. but our concerns about the agreement with cariforum, which we are discussing here in the eu, are certainly justified. in these times of great need for better control of money movements in the financial markets, we find it totally unacceptable that the cariforum agreements provide for full liberalisation of financial services with the eight tax havens that are now part of cariforum. if you don't believe me, check your papers before you vote on wednesday. there you will read about the free movement of financial services sold over the counter, i.e. the so-called "unregistered speculative derivatives". you can also read about the right to establish so-called foundations for individual citizens. this all comes into the eu through our own tax havens, malta and cyprus for example. this can happen as long as we do not have surveillance regulation across the eu, and therefore it is not the right time at all to appease these structures which are so much a part of the responsibility for the collapse of our economies. the ivory coast agreement is not enough. there's an internal conflict, and that's why this might not be the right time to make the deal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. cosmetics are used by all of us. these are not luxury goods, which are only for one sex and only for adults. soap, shampoo, toothpaste, lotion, deodorant, sunscreen - they are all around us and affect us all. it is important that it is safe and that we have good, clear rules in all countries, and this proposal has succeeded in doing that. i would like to take this opportunity, like all the others, to thank dagmar roth-behrendt for his excellent work. we are satisfied that our cmr ban has been maintained, but that it has become reasonable. if ethanol had been banned from cosmetics, it would probably have caused problems, and at the same time it would have seemed a bit comical, since we drink it in relatively large quantities. but it is good that the council has not succeeded in weakening the provisions. it now states that the exemption from the ban should be limited to substances which are authorised in food, which have so far been shown not to cause problems and which can be tolerated by vulnerable groups, such as young children and pregnant women. but the most important thing is that nanomaterials have finally arrived. it's been a tough fight. it's as if the industry has tried to stifle the debate on the safety of nanomaterials. we were happy to see these drugs as unproblematic and wonderful. nothing with all the popular concern that has been and is about, say, gmos. we are proud to have nano in the green group. it has to be tested, it has to be labelled, and for a number of products - sunscreens, paints and preservatives - it is now the manufacturer who has to guarantee safety, while the commission has to inform in detail and have time to check the others. finally, we have also introduced a label so that consumers can see what they are buying and what is on their skin. and then we have an audit directive, so the commission has to see whether both the definition of nano and the safety procedures are in order. finally, it is welcome that the marketing of products which do not meet the requirements of their characteristics is prohibited. it's going to be interesting to see how all this wrinkle cream we get on our faces that obviously doesn't help will be sold in the future.
in writing. − the hegyi report concerning the promotion of a dialogue with eu citizens is based on the assumption that people’s sceptical attitude towards the eu is due to the fact that they lack adequate knowledge. various measures are proposed in the report such as education, euronews and the creation of a museum of eu history. since the actions far more resemble propaganda than dialogue, i oppose them. in a real dialogue, the opinions of the citizens are seen as valuable.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of chemicals which are not in the same class as those used in cosmetics. fortunately, parliament limits the scope by requiring that the general exposure of cmr substances from all routes and sources be taken into account in the authorization. the adoption of the regulation means that we cannot ban substances in denmark that are already known to be carcinogenic, hormone disrupting and allergenic, as this would be seen as a barrier to the free movement of goods, which the law is precisely intended to ensure. however, this is counterbalanced by the introduction by parliament of a regulation on nanoparticles, thus applying the precautionary principle. from now on, it must be demonstrated that nanoparticles are not harmful before they can be used, rather than being able to prove that they are harmful before they can be prevented, which is in practice the principle of eu legislation. the regulation also introduces stricter requirements for detailed product descriptions.
in writing. − female genital mutilation is a practice that must be condemned by the member states. it constitutes a violation of women’s fundamental rights, particularly the right to personal integrity and sexual and reproductive rights. however, there are aspects of the muscardini report that i do not fully support, such as the formulations regarding questioning the credibility of parents who request asylum on the grounds that they have refused to consent to their child undergoing female genital mutilation. i see no reason to throw particular suspicion on people who request asylum on these specific grounds. another formulation in the report which i do not support is the one proposing regular medical examinations on women and girls who are granted asylum because of the threat of female genital mutilation in their home country. i consider the practice to be discriminatory against these women and girls. if a person is granted asylum in a member state, she should have the same rights and obligations as other citizens in the country.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. last week the eu-observer reported that jacques delors was pessimistic about the future of the eurozone. one of the founding fathers of the euro expressed his concern about the eu and the euro ahead of the recent summit. he said he was concerned about the lack of will to clean up the financial sector and introduce new rules for regulation. i have not had reason to support jacques delors in the past, but in this case i must say that he is unfortunately right in his concern. the conclusions of the summit are very vague in this respect. i have asked the commission continuously throughout the crisis about its willingness to regulate and control the financial sector. there is no will to this. the right of the single market to govern is constantly invoked. jacques delors also said something else which, for a eurosceptic like myself, almost gives the impression of deja vu in relation to arguments i have made in the past. he said: 'the economies of europe are too different for the euro.' i'm not going to be able to do it. that's what they are! the single currency is part of the problem - not part of the solution. europe needs strong common regulation of the financial sector, but great flexibility in terms of which economic policies best address the crisis in each country.
mr president, just a week before the european council, we asked the council, here in the european parliament, to agree on clear guidelines and concrete measures towards safeguarding employment and creating new job opportunities. the council here today is a council of silence and a council of illusions. i am sorry, but i have not seen any concrete measures. yes, eur 5 billion, but what is that? that is 0.04% of this union’s gross national product. investing in broadband is ok, but do not tell me that this is having any real effect on bringing down the free fall in jobs that we have right now. you have not understood that this crisis is a very deep, serious recession. business is demanding, workers are demanding, we are demanding: do more! the imf has proposed that you invest 2% of gdp this year and next year. mr barroso, you said that we are doing well; we are investing 3.3%. that was what you said two weeks ago, but now it has increased to 4%. i ask myself: how is that? well, the calculation is simple. unemployment is increasing: when expenditure on unemployment benefits increases, the financial stimulus will increase. i guess that, when the number of the unemployed reaches 25 million in europe, you will proudly stand here and say that our stimulus is now 5% of gdp. please, we cannot do it in this way. you cannot do it in this way. what we need is real investment. mr barroso, paul krugman has said that europe is providing less than half in terms of real stimulus compared to what the americans are doing. can i appeal to you: please, each time that unemployment rises, do not tell people that you are doing more because the member states are paying more in unemployment benefit. what you must tell people is that you are committed to a new recovery plan. i thank you for what you said today when you wished that this employment council on 7 may could be a true employment council. we are on your side and will support you in getting that. we should look at president sarkozy of france and remember that there was no limit on how many extraordinary summits the president of france held during his presidency. now it is proposed this summit on 7 may should be reduced to a troika. this unemployment crisis will not disappear because we refuse to have more meetings. it will still be there. that is why i appeal to you: we have a recovery plan here; it is well documented. i know that the commission president knows it and i am sure when we sit down together we can do more than we have done up to now. this is about the destiny of the european union’s economic, monetary and social efforts. so, one more time: commission president, let us hold a serious, broad-based, well-planned employment summit on 7 may. if you can do that, we will be with you. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to make a comment on the large grants given to companies which may not survive. it is not reasonable to ask a number of workers to remain in a company and to pay their wages with public funds if the company is closed down later. they should have the chance of continuing training, retraining and going to companies that had a chance of surviving. i think that in the automobile industry we have paid far too little attention to the development of completely new types of cars, hydrogen-powered cars, battery-powered cars and fuel-cell cars. i think a lot of the workforce could be moved over to these things, and then they'll have a job in 10 years, too.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i also strongly disagree with the proposal that the european parliament should unconditionally approve the trade agreement with turkmenistan. because that's what this is about. we can write whatever we want in our explanatory statement, but once we have pressed the green buttons, it is out of our hands unless we get a guarantee from the commission that we have the possibility of terminating that agreement. what is the reason for saying yes to the agreement with turkmenistan? we have heard of all kinds of progress, and it is true that the dictatorship has made some progress and made some promises. but as amnesty international tells us, they have been implemented only to a very limited extent. what, then, has been used as justification? the reason given was that the absence of agreement had not produced results either. in my view, this is an absurd justification, which indirectly encourages all kinds of dictators to endure. because then we'll fall for it at some point. i think it should be made clear that gas can be bought too expensive! and if the price of gas is agreements with the dictatorship in turkmenistan, then the price is too high!
the commission is not - mr president, i have to say something. i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative in this respect. this report is the result of extensive work in the committee on petitions. members of all political groups are present. i thank both the president and the shadow rapporteurs for their great efforts. i myself, as rapporteur, have given my wholehearted support to this cause. it has had a profound impact on the lives of tens of thousands of eu citizens living in spain, as well as on the spanish environment and economy. the report is now in committee. there it was adopted by a two-thirds majority. it is a wide-ranging text which distinguishes between the many different aspects of spanish urbanisation practice. there is the problem of the fundamental rights of european citizens, including the right to legally acquired property. these rights have already been committed by the european parliament and are binding on all member states. there is the problem of the disastrous effects of considerable urbanisation on the environment, particularly in the coastal areas and the spanish islands, but also in other areas, for example around madrid. there is the problem of the revival of the spanish coastal protection law of 1988, which can now suddenly deprive many people of the right to live in their own house - indeed, in some cases even mean the demolition of the house. then there is the problem of the consequences of thousands of allegedly illegal houses built with the blessing of the municipality, but then declared illegal, whereby the innocent buyer becomes the victim of corrupt urbanisation practices. finally, there is the problem of the lack of legal certainty and adequate compensation for the victims of property scandals. i have no doubt about the responsibility for these massive abuses and i regret that these violations by local and regional authorities have undermined the efforts of many others to achieve sustainable development, where a healthy economy goes hand in hand with respect for nature and for cultural heritage. the report deserved a proper debate in which all views could be heard. it is unsatisfactory that our new rules prevent this. these rules must be changed as soon as possible, particularly as regards reports dealing with complaints from european citizens. i ask you to reject the two alternative decisions. although they are based on my report, they are not impartial. they do not reflect the thorough and fact-based assessments that the committee has voted on.
in writing. - members of the european parliament from the left have voted against the european commission's proposal on food aid for the most deprived because it is presented with a legal basis in the agricultural policy, even though it is not an agricultural policy instrument. the agricultural budget should not be used to conduct social policy. that is the task of the nation states.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. the delegation believes that the concentration of supermarkets and the lack of competition are leading to a loss for both consumers and farmers in the eu. however, the delegation does not agree with paragraph 6 of the report, which says that it is regrettable that intervention as a tool is being phased out. this is necessary to make european agriculture profitable.
mr president, i would like to thank you. greenland is a part of the kingdom of denmark with considerable responsibility in the home government. the arctic is not uninhabitable. it's not a ragged landmass like antarctica was. on the contrary, the land masses are part of the arctic lands, and already four million people live there - a third of them indigenous peoples. these people and their nations have a legitimate claim to the resources and opportunities of the region. only the sea in the middle is international. and here the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos) is the relevant legal basis. this approach was confirmed, inter alia, by the arctic coastal states in the 2008 ilulissat declaration. in addition to unclos, there are a number of other relevant international and regional instruments. there is little need for more governance, let alone to adapt the instruments already in place. denmark has proposed to the arctic council to review the existing agreements with a view to updating them. this will and should be done in cooperation with the arctic states and the arctic peoples.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is not necessarily popular as a dane to have been involved in the submission of this resolution with diana wallis in the alde group. but i think the general line of the resolution is good. it is good that the eu is focusing on the arctic. it is also good for the small nations of denmark and norway that the eu is in the game, so that we do not have to play with the big boys - the united states and russia - in the region. but i would say to the moratorium which has now been included in the resolution that there are two reasons why i cannot vote for it. first, it is quite unrealistic. russia and the united states will not approve it under any circumstances. but i also believe that we have reason (as my colleague mr rovsing said) to take account of the people who live in the region, and the greenlanders have a natural expectation and a natural right to exploit their natural resources on their territory, just as all other nations on their territory do.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for their excellent cooperation. i think we have reached a very good result. last fall, the world wide fund for nature released a report that showed that we're going to have to have two planets by the mid-2030s if we continue to use the earth's resources the way we do now. we're simply spending too much on this planet. we're using it up faster than it can regenerate itself. we must change that if we are to prevent an ecological crisis. the way we use resources must be changed, and it is not only the politicians who have a responsibility here, but also the producer and the consumer. the eco-label we are now revising is a tool to promote the production and sale of goods produced in a sustainable way. one of the brand's weaknesses is that it is not well known among consumers (and here i agree with wijkman), and therefore it is not very attractive to producers. if the producer cannot use the label to market a good product, why try to produce the most sustainable product in a product group? this is also a problem we have tried to change with the new ideas. the member states and the commission are now clearly required to come up with an action plan to promote awareness of the eco-label through various campaigns. we have had a great deal of discussion on food and i think we have come to a sensible solution. the commission's proposal to look only at processed food and to look only at transport, packaging and processing - that will not be the end. instead, we have asked for a comprehensive study on how best to get food into the eco-labelling scheme, which will ensure that we get things right from the start and do not get confused about eco-labelling in general. finally, i would point out that the label now also rewards products which are made to last and which can be recycled. we need to change the way we produce and consume goods if we want our economies to be sustainable. this requires that we look at the entire life cycle of the product so that we can improve how we treat the raw materials during the production of a product, and not least how we dispose of a product after use. i hope that the tool we have improved here will be a good tool for promoting a more sustainable planet.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report on the education of the children of immigrants, as it deals with a topical and relevant problem. however, both sides believe that the member states should determine the extent of mother tongue instruction. in denmark, the decision has been put to the municipalities, and we believe that this should be respected. we believe that it is essential that children first of all master the language of the host country, so that they are not later prevented from continuing their education and gaining a foothold in the labour market.
in writing. - we voted against the report on the application of the directive on residence. although the report deals with the application and implementation of the directive on residence, it also refers to the metock judgment, which allows foreigners who are not legally resident in the eu to obtain a residence permit through marriage and thus travel around the union with their spouse. while we fundamentally support the principle of free movement of union citizens, we do not believe that people who have entered the union illegally should be able to advance their rights through marriage.
in writing. - the left members voted against. we are in favour of free movement of labour and of ensuring that the member states comply with the directive. but we are against the possibility of legalising illegal residence through marriage to a migrant worker, as reflected in the metock judgment. member states must have a real possibility, through their administrations, to ensure that the rules on free movement are not abused to circumvent the law on aliens.
for the uen group. i am not sure that this is the case. our review of the 2007 accounts shows again this year that the large sums of money that member states are making available to the eu are simply not being managed. the excellent reports of the committee clearly express the serious shortcomings, and let me just quote. the committee is concerned that the court of auditors estimates that at least 11% of the total amount reimbursed for structural policy projects should not have been reimbursed. i recognise that the entire eu's opaque network of legislative and administrative bodies, combined with poor administration and even corruption in some member states, makes responsible financial management difficult, but this is and will remain unacceptable. there is only one solution, and that is to stop paying the eu the big money and thus stop the whole redistribution circus of the eu. my small country, denmark, is sending close to dkk 20 billion to the eu this year. we would never think of spending this money for what the eu is spending it for. the very act of sending member states' money for redistribution through brussels means a deterioration in the usefulness of this money and contributes to an increase in the illicit circulation of citizens' money. the eu's member states must finance themselves and not tax their neighbours. finally, i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr bösch, for his excellent management of the work, and i would like to thank the rapporteurs, my colleagues, the committee's secretariat and all the staff for their exceptional commitment and very good cooperation.
rapporteur. − mr president, on a point of order first, because i just want to be very sure that the council has been invited for this item. as we are going to discuss the problem of the council, it would be very bad if the council was not invited for this item. i just want the president to guarantee that the council has been invited.
the commission is not mr president, i should like to begin by saying that it is with great regret that we have to carry out this debate without the council being present - the council whose accounts we are to examine. it is an absurd situation that the council does not want to simply overhear the debate. and this is a situation in which the committee on budgetary control has decided by a very large majority to recommend that parliament postpone its decision on the clearance of the council's accounts for 2007. why are we doing this? is it because we suspect fraud and deceit? the answer is no. we have no indication or information that goes in that direction. but why are we doing it? we are proposing a delay in approving the council's accounts because our committee has not been able to get an official reply from the council to a number of uncertainties in the accounts. perhaps these ambiguities are really due to misunderstandings. but the council has refused to clear up these misunderstandings. you could have done that by answering our questions. pursuant to point 42 of the interinstitutional agreement, the council budget may not include appropriations for action in the field of the common foreign and security policy. we have been given the task of ensuring that this agreement is respected as representatives of the european taxpayers. but of course that requires that we not only have the opportunity to put questions to the council's accounts, but that we also have the opportunity to get answers to those questions. we have listed a number of questions in the annex to the report. some of them are actually very simple and should be easily answered. for example: how many extra-budgetary accounts did the council have in 2007? how much money was involved, and how was it spent? for example, is there any explanation as to how the council's own internal auditor could have come to the conclusion that the verification of invoices was not satisfactory? and for example, is there any explanation for the need to transfer very large sums from the translation account to the travel account year after year? despite repeated requests from me as rapporteur and from the committee as a whole, the council has not yet given an official answer to these questions. and of course this is a big problem - not just for the committee, but it is a big problem for the whole of parliament. how can we approve an accounting, that is, take responsibility to the electorate for the accuracy of this accounting, without knowing what is hidden behind the figures? that would be absurd. we're good people in budget control. we therefore think that we should give the council another chance to answer our questions. that is why we are proposing to parliament that we postpone the approval of the council's accounts. that would mean that the matter would be brought up again in november and that the council would therefore have a few more months to consider whether openness is better than closure. i hope that with the debate today and with the vote tomorrow we will send a clear signal that we do not want to be a rubber stamp for the forces of darkness. we want openness, we want transparency, and we want full disclosure of how taxpayers' money is being spent. we want that today and we want that after the elections in june.
the commission is not mr president, i would first like to express my great satisfaction at the unanimity of opinion which has been reached in the opinions we have heard today, and i hope that this will make a certain impression on the council. i can fully agree with what the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, mr bösch, said to mr von wogau, and i would also like to add one thing to mr von wogau, namely: why should we give discharge from parliament if we cannot get the information? i mean, if somebody else was doing it, there's no reason for us to do it. but if we give the discharge, we're taking responsibility. to give a discharge is to take responsibility. and we can only take that responsibility if we have the information at our disposal. it may well be that the information is elsewhere in parliament, but why can't the committee on budgetary control get it, when it is the committee that has to deal with it? so i think mr staes made a very good point in asking the bureau to make a protest to the council, particularly because there are unsigned papers circulating which give the impression of having come from the council, with half-explanations from the council in relation to the questions asked. it is absolutely unacceptable that we have a situation where the press is given unsigned papers claiming to answer questions, while the council does not appear here to explain its views. so i think it would be a good thing if the proposal that the bureau should send a protest to the council were followed. and by the way, i just want to thank the committee. i think we have done a very good job in the committee. there's been a lot of audio... ah, the council has arrived! very good. (applause from the left) maybe we can start the discussion all over again! i will give the president the opportunity to start the whole discussion again so that we can have the questions to the council. so i will propose that to the president.
mr president, i would like to thank you. if you try to assess how people perceive disability when they go on holiday, you will find that disabled people are now looking to the united states because there are much better laws, much better rules, and therefore they are treated much better in the united states. it is not europe they seek, our own people. our own europeans do not go to europe on holiday if they are handicapped. they're going to the united states. and i think that is a clear sign that what we are working on here is extremely important in a number of respects - also from a purely tourist point of view.
the commission is not - madam president, i have to speak. i cannot say that i can speak with the same enthusiasm as mr savary, but intelligent transport systems are a very interesting subject. what are intelligent transport systems? yes, it is not so easy to answer, because there are all kinds of different systems. systems that provide better opportunities for safe, efficient and more environmentally friendly transport using modern information and communication technologies. its, which we call intelligent transport, is a catch-all term for many different things. and under the heading its, we find things like e-call, which automatically calls an emergency call center in the event of an accident, toll systems, which are systems for collecting road tolls, and also the very familiar gps that many of us have in our cars, so that we can find our way through unfamiliar terrain. but there are plenty of untapped opportunities for its. communication capabilities between cars, between cars and roads and between cars and information centres. and why don't we just start using that technology on a larger scale, since it's so good? yes, there is talk of a "chicken and egg" problem. what comes first? is that the technology that's installed in the car that can communicate with roadside transmitters? the car manufacturers know the possibilities, but they can't get anyone to pay for such technology if the transmitters on the side of the road aren't there, and the authorities don't want to invest in transmitters until the cars can receive. something has to happen - we have to get things moving. the commission has also drawn up the its action plan and a proposal for a directive to promote the use of its by initiating standardization work. the commission is grateful for that. this initiative is needed. the two reports we are considering today on intelligent transport systems, the action plan and the directive, are inextricably linked. and that's the way it's gonna be. an action plan without a directive does not bring much news. many of the things in the action plan are projects that have already been started. the directive is the key - the directive which is to give impetus to the development of important standards in the eu. the action plan, on the other hand, should help to define the scope of the directive and ensure that the experience gained from joint projects is used in the development of standards. the adoption of common standards through a european its committee covers four areas in particular: firstly, the optimal use of road traffic and travel data; secondly, continuous its in transport corridors and cities; thirdly, road safety and security; and fourthly, vehicle integration into transport infrastructure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes. we do not want a surveillance society and the question of data protection and individual rights must be considered in the standards from the outset. the question of responsibility and the allocation of responsibility is also of the utmost importance. if something goes wrong, it must be possible to determine whether the problem is with the driver, the satellite navigation system, or the car's technology. otherwise, we're not going anywhere. we're not gonna get the investment we need. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups for their cooperation. there have been nuances in the view of how much to focus on modes of transport other than road transport, but i think we have found a balance where we maintain that its should ensure the use of the new technology in road transport, while emphasising that there should be coherence with other modes of transport. information technology makes it possible to compare easily the different ways of getting from a to b and to get an overview of what is faster, what is cheaper and what is more environmentally friendly. i would have liked to see a quick agreement with the council. we couldn't make it. the czech presidency did a fine job, but i hope that the tightening ups we have made of the commission's proposal will make a directive more palatable to the council. we need a directive.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we must look to the future with optimism, because i believe that, as regards the adoption of the directive, in addition to strong cooperation from the czech presidency, there is the willingness of the swedish presidency to conclude a positive agreement between the commission, parliament and the council. so i am hopeful that this will be a factor in the vote in parliament tomorrow on the texts we are discussing. i would like to reply to some of the comments made and reassure mr ţicău as regards the objectives: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. i also wanted to reply to mr kusstatcher on the road sector and other transport systems. there is no coherent european framework for the deployment and use of intelligent transport systems in the road sector, for other modes of transport, as mr savary pointed out, specific plans have been established: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the safety of ships, such as the new generation of air traffic management systems, ris for inland waterway transport, vtmis for maritime transport and rtms for rail transport. the intelligent transport system action plan therefore mainly concerns the road sector, but also includes specific actions and initiatives aimed at ensuring and improving the interconnectivity of road transport with other modes of transport through appropriate interfaces. i would also like to remind mr savary that the action plan for the intelligent transport system includes targeted actions not only for elderly drivers but also for road users who are defined as weak, that is to say cyclists and pedestrians. these actions are included in the list of measures that can be taken by the intelligent transport systems committee provided for in the directive. this is particularly the use of the intelligent transport system for the safety of users, such as intelligent signage for the visually impaired. that said, we can make some rules with a directive, but the problem is also to have intelligent drivers, it is not enough to have intelligent systems, we must also make sure that those who are driving a car, a truck or a motorcycle or a bicycle use intelligence, but unfortunately this cannot be regulated with a directive, with a regulation and with an action plan, we must only make sure that, through good rules, we convince european citizens to use intelligence and not to use alcohol and drugs when they drive a car, a motorcycle, a truck or a bicycle.
the commission is not - madam president, i have to speak. i think that commissioner tajani has finally put things right here, because that is what this is all about. we need to make drivers smarter. we have discussed this a great deal and mr kusstatscher has also said on several occasions that we must take care that these systems do not make us behave more stupidly but actually help to make us better informed and act more wisely. this is very important. i also think it is important to keep the example of the lorry travelling across europe - where the lorry drivers today complain that they will soon be unable to see out of the windscreen because of all the many dipped-points they have to refer to toll systems and toll systems and other information systems. there has to be a common platform so that it goes into the computer and comes out to the truck driver in his own language. and the possibilities are there. there are an infinite number of good options. we've had some discussion about the amount of money that's been set aside. we can understand that this is a eur 300 million, which will go largely to easyway - primarily from the commission. i can mention that in my own country, denmark, we have just received a plan to allocate eur 40 million to its over the next five years. and 40 million euros is a lot for a small country of 5 million people. and it actually takes us incredibly far. so i think we are starting to look around in different member states, that it might be possible to see the perspective in this. that is what we have to do and that is what i hope the transport ministers will also talk about when we come to the meeting on the 29th. finally, i would say on the amendments: there is very strong support for this proposal for a directive, and we have only four amendments for the report tomorrow, and i can say that i can support amendments nos 57 by the socialists and 59 by the greens, but not amendments nos 58 and 60. i think that the fact that we have ended up with so few amendments shows how strong the support is from parliament. so you are going, mr tajani, with a strong mandate for the negotiations.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr stockmann for his work. the marco polo programme since 2003 has aimed to achieve a more sustainable transport system in europe by shifting a substantial part of the annual growth in road freight transport to modes of transport that are less harmful to the environment, such as inland waterways, rail transport, short sea shipping. the first marco polo programme, which had the objective of transferring 48 billion tonnes/kilometre from roads in four years, ended in 2006, but the external evaluation showed that the target was only achieved by 64%. the experience gained with the second marco polo programme shows that its effectiveness is not improving, unfortunately, and that europe is not making full use of this important instrument to create a transport system more suited to market developments. last year i sent a series of letters to all the transport ministers in the union asking them to use the marco polo. so i think the time has come - and i hope parliament will support my assessment - to amend the regulation, to change the rules for access to this project, to this programme, which will have to be, which will have to provide, even funds that are not always used. it is a very positive approach, because we are trying to make it easier for small and mediumsized enterprises to use a community project, which until now have had considerable difficulties in using the european funds made available by marco polo. it is also a message, which we are sending today, not only to those who use the marco polo, but i think we are sending a message that too many regulations - that many european regulations - should be amended, because not always, also in other sectors, and even national regulations which are used to use european funds, are not always written in such a way as to be able to encourage their use. this is a problem which is very much felt in all the member states, and i repeat that it concerns not only our regulations but also the national regulations on the use of community funds. that is why i believe that what we are doing today is not just about marco polo, but we are sending a message of good legislation for citizens to make it easier for them to access community projects. i therefore believe that the proposed text can be approved and that mr stockmann's work can of course be shared, because, i repeat, tomorrow this parliament will send a positive message to the whole of the european union. i repeat, this is not just a question of marco polo, but a much broader question and i believe that, starting from marco polo, we will also be providing a service to other sectors which are following closely the use of community funds and the use of the various programmes which the commission offers to the 27 member states and to the businesses of the union.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, i have to speak. the committee on budgets decided to give an opinion on the marco polo programme on the basis that it had not been able to use the funds as intended. and that is why we can of course support action now. the commission is to be commended for this. and they are trying to simplify administration and tighten up the rules so that it will be easier to use the funds for their intended purpose. on the other hand, we in the committee on budgets have also supported the view that if we do not succeed in getting the programme better implemented, if we do not succeed in actually spending more of the funds, then we must consider whether to allocate so much money to marco polo or whether some of the money should be transferred to other programmes where it can be better used. we're going to have a mid-term review of the budget after the 2010 elections, and one of the things we're going to do is, of course, look at which programmes are working and which programmes are not. and where there is more need, we must of course take the money from where it cannot be used and move it over so that the money does not simply fall away as appropriations.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, the patient directive, as it stands, could have the consequence for the health sector that it will be very difficult to control public expenditure. i therefore ask that amendment no 122 be voted on, which concerns prior authorization. i believe that all citizens should have free and equal access to treatment according to their needs. and that means that doctors should decide what treatment i need and when. unfortunately, this directive reflects the very clear tendency to become consumers rather than citizens. instead of being citizens of a society based on the principle of mutual obligation, we are now consumers in a large single market. but the thing is, it's human to be a citizen. you're a citizen, just like any other. but as a consumer, you are reduced to being the object of a marketing effort. it means you're the object instead of the subject. patients should be the subject and not the object of marketing efforts.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are in the midst of a european election campaign - an election campaign in which we must get closer to the european citizens. we now have a law that is so close to the european citizens. let's just grab it and put the patient first. as one of the rapporteurs of the liberal group, i have had as my focus group a man whom you all know from your own area. i come from the country, and when i go to the supermarket, i meet a man on a ski slope with a wooden box on the back. this man is at the center of patient mobility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health system is not undermined by the spread of infectious diseases. and very few of them really want to go. it's the desperate who go out. but of course, for my man on the hill to actually go, he doesn't have to put up the money himself. fortunately, there is a broad consensus in this parliament that individual patients should not have to pay out of pocket. this is really an improvement on the commission's proposal. the liberal group's core amendment has been to have a european patients' ombudsman. thank you for your support on that. the patient ombudsman's job is to ensure that the european citizen, the patient, is granted the right that this law provides. the ball is now in the council's court. the ministers who always say that we must be close to the citizens of the european union. the eu must be close to its citizens. you have a case on a silver platter. grab that! do not waste this opportunity!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank mr bowis for his excellent management of the negotiations, which have not been easy. one of the difficult subjects has been the help for patients with rare diseases - a subject which will also be discussed later this morning. we all want to give these patients the best possible treatment and we naturally see great advantages in close european cooperation. but it is no help if we just let them travel around europe without any strings attached from home, medically as well as economically. the text, if adopted in its present form, would allow all patients with a rare disease to travel abroad and receive any treatment that would then be paid for by the country of origin. how are costs controlled and how is it ensured that patients are not treated incorrectly or overtreated? you're totally over the treatments. they also risk serious conflicts with their home country, which may refuse to pay, on the grounds that it is not a truly rare disease that they suffer from. there is no consensus on how to identify such things. we would much prefer to have separate legislation in this area to help people with rare diseases in the best possible way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. yes, we have been talking all day about how it is extremely important that we create good health and good safety for citizens with this proposal. and there are also a lot of good things in the proposal - a lot of requirements on how patients should have the right to information and such. but let's be honest here. the only way we can provide real security for patients is to ensure that they are given prior authorization before they leave. this means that patients can be 100 percent sure that they have the right to get treatment, how much treatment they can get covered, but also that they're going to the right place to get that treatment. in my view, that security is quite crucial. and pre-approval also provides a tool for healthcare providers to ensure the safety of patients who stay at home.
in writing. − i voted against the casaca report on the 2007 discharge of the european parliament for three reasons. firstly, i am against the situation that the meps’ voluntary pension fund is being funded by taxpayers’ money. secondly, i am against the situation that taxpayers’ money can be given to a private pension fund where the list of participants and beneficiaries is kept secret and is not published. thirdly, i am completely against using even more taxpayers’ money to cover the pension fund’s current deficit as a result of the speculative investments. i do support paragraphs 105 and 109 of the casaca report, which remedy some objections i have concerning the voluntary pension fund of the meps, but, because the casaca report does not change the existing situation, i voted against giving the discharge in respect of the implementation of the european parliament’s budget for the financial year 2007.
member of the commission. − mr president, the results of the london g20 summit are substantial. they provide a clear message of global unity to work together to get the world economy out of the current crisis and back on the path of economic growth and job creation. the g20 focused on three broad lines of action, and i am here today substituting for my colleague, joaquín almunia, who is driving those action lines further in a major imf meeting today in washington, and is thus unable to participate in this part-session. let me provide you with the commission’s concise assessment of the outcome, and of subsequent actions concerning these three broad action lines. first, it is clear that the leaders agreed to do whatever it takes to restore growth, and for the moment the first and foremost priority is to restore the channels for credit flows. in this respect it is necessary to deal with impaired, toxic assets, thus endorsing the principles that the g20 finance ministers adopted in march, which is fully in line with the approach taken by the european union. it was also agreed to implement the announced economic stimulus measures without delay, and the eu’s coordinated fiscal stimulus of over 3% – maybe closer to 4% – of gdp is substantial for europe itself and provides a key contribution to the g20 short-term macroeconomic response to the crisis. the outcome of the g20 should ensure an adequate balance between short-term fiscal expansion, which is, of course, necessary, and long-term fiscal sustainability, which calls for an orderly withdrawal of the stimulus when the time comes. here also, the european consensus on the need to protect medium-term fiscal sustainability contributed to the balanced line adopted in london. trade protectionism is a potential threat in any global recession. it was therefore important that the g20 confirmed the commitment to keep trade and investment open and to avoid any kind of protectionism. the second line of action is an ambitious plan to reshape global financial regulation, and it was agreed that, in future, regulations need to apply to every bank, everywhere, at all times. the g20 took a major step towards the global regulatory convergence that europe has long been calling for. we succeeded in obtaining the following objectives: improved requirements for bank capital and liquidity buffers, as well as measures to limit the build-up of leverage; regulation of hedge funds and private pools of capital; agreement on better regulation and supervision of credit derivative markets; more ambitious regulation for credit rating agencies; the establishment of global colleges of supervisors for all large cross-border banks; and endorsement of the new principles of the financial stability board on executive pay and bonuses in financial institutions. decisive action was also agreed on non-cooperative offshore tax havens. thus, in the future there should be no hiding place in any part of the world for fiscal free riders. we welcome, in particular, the reference to the end of banking secrecy. we also welcome the recent announcement by several countries to move towards the oecd standards on the exchange of information for tax purposes. overall, concerning financial regulation, more progress has been made now than over the whole of the last decade. thirdly, it was agreed to reform the international financial institutions to ensure strong institutions for the global economy and provide appropriate representation for emerging and developing countries. it was agreed to substantially increase imf resources, and the eu and its member states have been steering the process and showing the way in this regard. some countries have followed the eu and japan’s lead in pledging resources to the imf, but more pledges are necessary, in particular from the united states and china. next, it is essential that the decisions taken by the g20 are delivered rapidly. we should also keep in mind to build a more balanced world economy and to avoid past mistakes. a fundamental adjustment of the global growth model – i am referring to the huge us budget deficit and the big chinese trade surplus – may be needed in order for the global economy to return to a sustainable growth path. the leaders agreed to meet again before the end of this year, probably in september. effective coordination will be necessary to allow europe to continue to steer the g20 process, which should be our continuous objective. to conclude, tackling the current crisis requires both effective and coordinated fiscal stimulus and reform both of financial regulation and the international institutions. let us recall that this crisis originated from excesses and greed in the financial markets, especially on wall street. for europe, it is a matter of returning to the basic values of the european model, which requires combining entrepreneurial initiatives, respect for productive work and striving for solidarity. in other words, our common challenge now is to save the european social market economy from the systemic errors of financial capitalism.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, the essential question is, of course, what to do now. what must europe deliver when the g20 meeting is resumed in september this year? i have here the very latest prognosis from the imf. i regret to inform commissioner rehn that it states that, even including all we have done, economic development in the euro zone will go down this year by -4.2% in growth and, in germany alone, the rate will be -5.6%. we have transposed that in our macroeconomic calculations, and i can tell you, colleagues, that this means that, in spring 2010, we will have 27 million unemployed in the european union. this means in essence that, in two years, unemployment will have increased by 10 million jobs lost in the european union. we now need to act quickly, in a coordinated and effective manner, exactly as olli rehn said. the conclusion from the g20 in london was that, if there is a need to do more, then we agree to do more. i cannot say anything other than repeat the figure of 27 million unemployed people. does one need further arguments to do more? i would propose doing four things in preparation for the september g20: firstly, to prepare a new, coordinated effort to reduce this threat of mass unemployment; secondly, to follow the de larosière group’s two proposals – to establish a supervisory board and to give more competence to so-called csr organisations; thirdly, to introduce effective financial regulation, covering hedge funds and private equity; and, fourthly, to prepare europe to take a role in promoting a new global deal, including for those developing countries which have been hardest hit by this economic crisis. please, commissioner, do not tell me one more time that you have made a financial stimulus of 4%, including automatic stabilisers. next time it will be 5%, when unemployment increases to 27 million unemployed. let us be fair and let us create the jobs. we can do it together.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. the main lines of mrs ibrisagic's decision on the western balkans are quite clear. it stresses that there is a link between reforms in the region and the possibility of countries joining the eu. this is the dynamic we have so successfully practiced in the last major enlargement of the european union. the resolution points to a number of practical areas where countries can do better and also points to the many obvious problems in the area. but i also think it is very important today to stress to the countries, their politicians and their people that they too must deliver. they also need to take ownership of the process. the union is not the only one to deliver. the integration process must also be promoted from within the states. it is about fighting corruption and crime and creating a strong civil society and creating knowledge-based economies and societies. this is the process we want to see, so that we can look forward to all the countries of the western balkans being full members of the union one day, as a basis for ensuring peace, security and cooperation - also in that part of europe.
for the pse group. i would like to begin by thanking mr schnellhardt for his very ambitious work on this very technical report. i would also like to thank the other shadow rapporteurs, on behalf of our shadow rapporteur, åsa westlund, for the good cooperation which means that we can vote today on a proposal which we can all support. the proposal we are now voting on is both clearer and easier to use than the very complicated legislation currently in force in this area. we in the socialist group are particularly pleased that our amendments have been accepted, which provide for carnivorous animals to be able to find the food they need to survive. but also that we get to focus on both health and safety risks, but still get the necessary flexibility. so thank you for your work and we're glad to have a good suggestion.
author. − mr president, the situation of camp ashraf, home to 3 500 members of the main democratic opposition of iran, the pmoi, has been of great concern for some time and has been the subject of several resolutions in this house in recent years. together with a delegation of four members of this house, i visited camp ashraf in october last year and met with american, iraqi and un officials there. they all reinforced our concern for the legal status of ashraf’s residents, because its security was transferred from american troops to iraqi forces at the beginning of this year. the situation has got much worse since then. the iranian supreme leader, in an official announcement at the end of february, asked the visiting iraqi president to implement the mutual agreement to close down camp ashraf and expel all its residents from iraq. since then iraqi forces have started a siege around the camp. iraqi troops have been preventing entry of families of ashraf residents, parliamentary delegations, human rights organisations, lawyers, journalists and even doctors to the camp, and do not allow many logistical materials to get into ashraf. this parliament therefore found it absolutely necessary to address this as an urgency issue at this stage. we have now worked together with all groups and produced a common text, which is well balanced and addresses all our concerns on this matter, and calls on international bodies to find a long-term legal status for ashraf residents. unfortunately there are some amendments tabled by some of the spokesmen for tehran, those who believe the lies told by tehran. i think we should understand clearly that these are contrary to the security of the residents of ashraf and we should vote against them. we urge all colleagues to stick to the joint text and reject any amendments.
i have to say, madam president, i would say that i find this case unfair and when i speak now i speak only on behalf of greenland, which belongs to the kingdom of denmark. there are some tiny outposts with 10-20 inhabitants far to the north, who make their living by seal hunting. they have no chance of surviving economically if we take away their livelihood. and we can't put them to anything else! there are hundreds of kilometres to go before the next issue, and we should be glad that they are there, because we are maintaining that greenland is part of the kingdom of denmark. the greenlanders are shooting the seals. who's against it? and if they don't get enough seals, there's no fish for them to catch. so it is a disaster for greenland what they are doing here. this matter has not been dealt with thoroughly enough and no consideration has been given to the poor people whose livelihood is now being taken away without offering them anything in return. it's not dignified to treat poor people that way.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i do not think that the compromise is good enough as far as citizens' rights are concerned. i am concerned that the french minister of culture still thinks it should be possible to close down access to the internet administratively after 'three strikes'. that is why i and a number of my colleagues have re-proposed the amendments which this parliament has once voted for. however, it will not be possible to vote on them in the present form of the voting list, since it says that we must vote on the compromise first. i therefore ask my colleagues to support the fact that we get a new voting list so that we can vote on the 'citizens' amendments' before we vote on the overall compromise text.
in writing. - we have voted against the proposal to ban trade in seal products and against the compromise reached between parliament and the council. we do not believe that a ban on trade in seal products improves animal welfare and regret that the proposal is adopted despite the lack of a treaty mandate.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i very much welcome this opportunity to appear before you well in advance of the next meeting of the european council, which i will not personally attend. of course, this time the circumstances are a bit unusual, as a new czech government is about to be appointed. i will say a few more words about this at the very end of my statement. let me first run through the main issues on the agenda of the june european council as we the presidency are preparing it. i shall start with the institutional issues. in december 2008, the european council agreed on a path designed to enable the lisbon treaty to enter into force by the end of 2009. in essence, this involves giving legal guarantees and assurances on a number of issues of concern to the irish people, in return for which the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the treaty before the end of october. work on implementing this agreement is still ongoing, and i am not at this stage in a condition to go into details. i am confident that the forthcoming european council will be able to fulfil its side of the bargain. as you all probably know, tomorrow there will be a vote on the ratification of the lisbon treaty in the czech senate. i am going home in the middle of the night to be there from early morning. i believe that the result of this vote will send a positive message to the other member states and that it will calm down some unfounded apprehensions. i am working hard! nevertheless, the czech senators must in any case be granted unconditional independence in this democratic decision-making. it is obvious that any attempt to put pressure on them might prove counterproductive. last december, it was also agreed that the process of appointment of the future commission, in particular the designation of its president, will be initiated without delay after the european parliament elections of june 2009. i am fully aware of the views expressed here on the desirability of involving the european parliament in this process in an adequate manner. the presidency will of course work closely not only with the member states, but also with this parliament. i shall now say a few things on the economic and financial crisis, which will certainly dominate an important part of the agenda, and on the need to respond further to the economic and financial crisis. the crisis demonstrated the acute need to strengthen the effectiveness of the supervision and regulation of financial institutions and to enhance crisis management mechanisms. we have already begun doing so, both at eu level and more globally. in that context, the group chaired by mr de larosière has produced very interesting ideas, and the commission tabled a first set of proposals last week. further proposals are expected in the coming weeks. these are being, and will be, discussed by ecofin – and we have the ecofin meeting today – and our objective will be to reach first decisions by the european council. this is an ambitious objective and, clearly, work will need to continue beyond june, so it is of fundamental importance that the june european council is able to give a strong signal for the rapid adoption of the proposals to be presented by the commission. more generally, the june european council will take stock of the situation on the financial markets and assess the effectiveness of measures taken so far. it will also take stock of measures taken to support the ‘real’ economy, and, in this connection, look at the employment situation. on thursday, the day after tomorrow, we will be holding a special employment summit with the social partners in prague that should address these important issues. you will be informed in detail about the agenda of this summit later today during a special debate. aside from the outcome of thursday’s summit in prague, as well as the very interesting seminars and workshops organised in recent weeks in the czech republic, in sweden and in spain, the commission will also issue a communication very soon, in the run-up to the june european council, so that by the time of the european council we will have a number of interesting ideas and recommendations on the table for our consideration. however, let me underline that this is not about launching a grand new strategy for employment. we already have one – the lisbon strategy for growth and employment. we have recently reaffirmed the existing employment guidelines and adopted country-specific recommendations. more generally, let me recall that the stimulus packages that the union and the member states have adopted since the end of last year constitute major contributions to supporting employment. on climate change, the june european council will revert to the preparations of the copenhagen summit on climate change. it will take stock of progress achieved, both at international level and as regards our own internal preparations. this is a complex issue, especially since negotiations with our international partners run in parallel to our own internal discussions. there was a summit yesterday between the eu and japan in prague. it is clear that significant amounts of financing will be required in order to underpin an ambitious agreement in copenhagen. the eu is committed to shouldering its fair share of that, which of course also requires a fair internal burden-sharing agreement. how far we go at the june european council as regards the eu’s own internal arrangements will very much depend on how far our international partners, including the us, have gone and on the status of negotiations in the multilateral framework. let me emphasise the eu’s continued will to demonstrate leadership, with the objective of reaching an ambitious outcome in copenhagen. it is rather premature at this stage to speak in detail about the agenda of the european council as far as external relations are concerned. however, two important summits with third countries will be held in prague at the end of this week: the eastern partnership summit on 7 may and the ‘southern corridor – new silk road’ summit the day after. it is very likely that the european council will discuss follow-ups to these events which are crucial for the union’s interests in the long-term perspective. likewise, we can expect some debates on the troika summits with japan and canada and other important summits and meetings already planned for may, russia included. the external relations agenda will in any case be updated on the grounds of current developments, namely the general affairs and external relations council meetings in may and june which will be dealing with defence and development issues on top of the usual agenda. i would like to express my thanks for your interest in the upcoming european council agenda and i will certainly be glad to hear your inspiring comments and views in the following discussion.
president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the next european council will take place in the same month as the european elections. this crucial election will take place against a backdrop of real difficulties for many of our citizens. i am thinking in particular of the impact of the crisis on employment, which we shall have the opportunity to discuss in more detail later this afternoon. our response to the crisis must be rooted in our core values of responsibility, solidarity and social justice. this crisis is an opportunity for us to renew our european model of a social market economy based on our values and environment. all europeans with a heart and conviction must prepare themselves to commit themselves. they must explain why europe is so important, why citizens should be involved and why they should vote. ladies and gentlemen, you can be rightly proud of the work that has been done. the outgoing parliament has a remarkable record. parliament has shown its determination to achieve concrete results for the citizens. he has proven that he has an ambitious vision for our common future. the legacy of the last five years is very important. historic decisions have been taken to combat climate change and strengthen our energy security. measures have been adopted which have had a direct effect on the security and freedom of citizens and have also opened up new possibilities for them. substantive reforms have been undertaken in the areas of the internal market, the social agenda, telecommunications, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs. in all these respects, the modernisation of europe that has been undertaken bears the imprint of parliament. in the last few weeks alone, with the czech presidency, you have reached agreements on a large number of key issues. to date, almost 50 commission legislative proposals have already been finally adopted under the co-decision procedure under the czech presidency. let me mention a few that have been at the heart of the agenda of the commission i chair: the internal energy market, maritime safety, measures to strengthen regulation and supervision of financial markets, the €5 billion stimulus package to transform europe into a sustainable economy. i would like to congratulate the czech parliament and the czech presidency, under the leadership of prime minister topolánek and deputy prime minister vondra, on the work they have done. i am convinced that this work will be able to continue until the end of june. we must speak with conviction and clarity to the voters of this europe about the results. this is what will enable us to give a new impetus to a confident and bold european union. europe needs it. it needs to make this year of crisis and transition a year more active, more imaginative, more determined than ever. this will be our approach at the european council in june. we cannot afford to slow down the pace of our efforts. we must succeed for europe. i will not therefore now turn to other issues - which vice-premier vondra has mentioned - such as the eastern partnership council, which is very important, but i want to focus in particular on the areas which, in my view, are priorities for the european council in june. the european council will be called upon to move forward on a series of issues of critical importance for the months and years to come. it will be called upon to continue the work to take us towards our goal of seeing the lisbon treaty enter into force. the european union needs the benefits that this treaty will bring. so we must put in place the institutional package agreed last december and supported by this parliament: to settle the legal guarantees needed to take forward the referendum process in ireland, and to take forward the steps to ensure a smooth transition and institutional stability. on climate change, we need to keep up the momentum towards an ambitious agreement at copenhagen in december. we have shown that strong and credible targets are possible. now we need to encourage others to take on a comparable level of ambition and to show that we are prepared to help those who need it. in short, we have to translate this momentum into a truly global result. inevitably, the main focus of the european council will again be the economic crisis. from the outset, the european union has had to adapt to the different demands of the crisis: to stabilise the immediate financial crisis; to rebuild confidence in the financial system; to get banks lending again; to ensure global action that matches the global reach of the crisis; and to bring direct help to those made unemployed or at risk of losing their jobs. between now and the european council, attention will be mainly focused on two areas. the first is the continuing work of rebuilding a regulatory and supervisory regime a regime which must command the confidence of the public and the investment community alike. this is not just about building a stronger system for the long term to ensure that we don't expose our economy in the same way again; it's also about rebuilding confidence now, and showing the markets and the public that the european union knows what has to be done. last week saw our proposals on hedge funds and private equity, as well as on executive pay. those proposals demonstrate our capacity to be a prime mover in delivering the reforms agreed in the g20, and to set a standard for the actions we expect our international partners also to adopt in the coming months. indeed, the commission is the first executive body in the world to come up with concrete proposals on this very difficult and complex matter. the commission, parliament and the council will have to cooperate closely over the next few months to reach agreement on these proposals. the next step will be to set out in detail how we propose to organise supervision at european level. there's no point in beating about the bush. the current system of national supervision has failed. that is why i set up the de larosière group to provide input on how to build an effective european architecture for supervision. at the end of may, the commission will present its blueprint for how to organise such a system of financial supervision in europe. here, again, i would like europe to be the first to move at global level. the second component, of course, is employment. we will discuss the employment summit in more detail later. i can already announce now that the commission will follow up this summit with a detailed communication ahead of the june european council. i am determined that the european union should do everything in its power to help those suffering most acutely in this time of crisis. our response to the crisis cannot be limited to technical measures to address regulatory problems. it must be, and it must be seen to be, grounded in our core values values like solidarity, social justice and responsibility, and also responsibility towards future generations. we need to seize this opportunity to rebuild the foundations of our very own european brand of social and ecological market economy. this should be the overriding message of next month's european council: an active european union, looking to the future, working hard for the benefit of citizens and deserving of the confidence of those citizens.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. the employment summit was originally scheduled for 7 may in prague. the spring summit, as we all know, has for the last several years had employment as a fixed item on the agenda. here, eu leaders discussed the so-called lisbon strategy, the eu's plan for more and better jobs. it is also the place where representatives of the social partners have had the opportunity to present their views on employment. but there was no need for a major joint summit on the rise in unemployment in europe. instead, there is the trojan meeting, which is much less ambitious. the eu's top decision makers have thus chosen not to give clear signals in the run-up to the european parliament elections. it looks like a tank! i understand from a meeting with the secretary-general of the eec, john monks, that the cancellation is a very bad sign for the employees. he is not in doubt that this gives the impression that european leaders are not sufficiently concerned about unemployment. the wage-earners are losing a good opportunity to be heard at the highest level. according to the commission, as several of my colleagues have pointed out, unemployment will rise by 11% in 2010 and the general government deficit will rise sharply to 7 1⁄2% of gdp. and we are not talking about an overestimation of the situation here, quite the opposite. this is a major challenge to the current arrangement for the single currency. a number of countries have big, big problems with the euro. this applies to ireland, the mediterranean countries and the countries of eastern europe, and has been greatly reinforced by the international economic crisis. countries outside the euro, such as the united kingdom, denmark and sweden, are doing well. i therefore do not think that a summit in june can avoid the fact that the euro event has so many internal tensions. the june summit must decide how to give those countries which are in particularly difficulty the opportunity to escape the iron grip of the euro. of course, one can choose to make an "economic government", but i have not yet heard that any country would hand over more of its fiscal policy to the eu, let alone the strongest nation in the eu, germany. i therefore ask: how many people in the eu are to suffer under a euro arrangement which means in practice that people in europe are to suffer under the hopeless criteria of the stability and growth pact? as mentioned earlier, the situation is particularly bad in ireland, greece and a number of other countries. i think that those countries need to know that they can of course get out of the tight requirements of the euro, even though there is no opt-out clause. i think it is time that countries were given the opportunity to shape their own employment policies.
mr president, i am standing here with the feeling that i am on another planet and wondering what is happening right now. it is strange. we are in the worst crisis since 1929. two days ago commissioner almunia said that we are going to have minus growth of 4% this year and next year we are going to have 27 million unemployed. mr barroso, compared with the past two years – this year and the year before – that is equal to an increase of 10 million unemployed people. and what do i hear? nothing! nothing! i hear that the intention is to have a message and i hear that you intend to do something to help those who suffer most. but can i remind you that an unemployment level of 11.1% next year is 27 million unemployed people? can i remind you that at the g20 summit, with some resistance from some european leaders, you accepted that if there is a reason we are willing to do more to engage in having high economic growth? president of the commission, i have 27 million good reasons to do more. that is why i appeal to you today. i know you are a reasonable man; i know that you listen to arguments. can i put the following proposal to you? i propose that you hold three very carefully planned summits before the june summit, with a selective group of people, where you formulate a new recovery plan – a recovery plan corresponding to plus 2% in real demand, with 0.5% finance at european level – one half financed by the states and one half financed by the municipality; where you add a new social plan to take care of the immense costs of this unemployment crisis and to move into intelligent work-sharing while you use the erasmus programme to ensure that young people, instead of being unemployed are allocated to a training scheme; and, lastly, as you said yourself indirectly today, that you now try seriously to propose eurobonds in a well-focused, well-done, well-planned way to take care of those countries that cannot finance their own recovery plan. we can do it if we take a new decision; we can do it if we exercise true crisis management and we can do it if we now really say: let us not start by asking berlin, london or paris what to do, but let us start by showing commission leadership by making a proposal that is not intended to fit everyone’s shoes. not everyone will be happy at the beginning, but that is a precondition for moving europe out of this terrible economic crisis. elisa ferreira, our excellent rapporteur, together with the majority of the european parliament, has proposed to you a new strong recovery effort. so this is not only our position from the socialist group, the party of european socialists, the social democrats, but a common wish that you should do something more. please do it. leadership is about taking chances, taking risks and taking the lead.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. a rules of procedure is the basis for all work in a democratically elected assembly. clear rules ensure that all participants in the political process are treated equally. you cannot change the requirements to keep certain groups, persons or attitudes from influence. you can't bend them because sometimes it's right. last week, for example, we discussed at the conference of presidents a request to postpone the vote on the staes report. thankfully, the legal service turned it down. the result of a vote shall be binding. that is why my group has tabled amendments to make all votes electronic. this will prevent mistakes from occurring, while ensuring that there is a quorum. i would urge you to vote in favour of these amendments.
madam president, i have one thing to say regarding the vote that we are about to hold. it seems, from the voting list, that we are voting on the compromise text from the committee, instead of the amendments, first. normally i would have thought that we would vote on the most far-reaching amendments first, so i would ask you to use the power that you have according to rule 19 in the rules of procedure and change the order of the vote so that we vote on the amendments. this concerns the citizens’ rights amendments. this is very important for both the harbour and the trautmann reports.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is a very special experience to be part of the debate this evening. for five years, i have worked closely with cathrine guy-quint. we have both been budget coordinators for each of our political groups. we have had our battles along the way, but for the most part we have fought together in the spirit of cooperation that is the work of the committee on budgets. you're stopping, cathrine, and i'd like to take this opportunity to thank you more formally for the time we've had together. it has been instructive to me! i've gotten better at french, and i've also learned a lot from your style, which i've learned to respect. you're more cash than i am, but sometimes it's necessary! tonight, the outgoing parliament is handing over to the new parliament, which will be elected on 4 to 7 june. if the irish voters vote yes in october and the lisbon treaty enters into force at the end of the year, then we must act quickly because the consequences for the work of this parliament are great. and they are especially so in the budgetary field. this is clearly stated in the report by mrs cathrine guy-quint. you have done a first-class job passing on to the new members of the european parliament. parliament is formally involved in the establishment of the multiannual financial framework, but we still have to ensure that the duration of this framework is changed from 7 to 5 years, corresponding to the electoral period of the commission and parliament. it is necessary to do so so that one is always a part of the framework. parliament has full influence over the whole budget, including the agricultural budget. and i think it would be good for the farmers of the european union and for the citizens of the european union if the discussions on agricultural policy were to be opened up in a serious way and if the back door trade in cereals were to be replaced by an open and democratic debate. no one can say in advance what this will mean for the level of agricultural expenditure, but it will certainly prevent the maintenance and development of schemes which cannot be explained clearly and logically to the citizens. the annual budgetary procedure is changing and we tried last year the new requirements it places on the work of parliament's committee on budgets. with only one hearing and then conciliation, we have to deliver an earlier and much tighter preparation. but it's not so bad. i feel that the general examination of the new discipline last year was a success. the treaty of lisbon gives parliament new budgetary powers and new ways of working, and the guy-quint report has given the future parliament an excellent basis for this work. i hope and believe that the lisbon treaty can be adopted and that the work of the european union can be made more open and effective.
in writing. - i recognise the importance of the resolution's aim of improving the human rights situation in a number of vulnerable countries. i share its ambition to abolish the use of the death penalty and improve the working conditions of human rights defenders and ngos. at the same time, i agree that human rights must be demanded in the countries with which the eu cooperates. i cannot, however, vote for the resolution because i strongly oppose the reference to delayed ratification of the treaty of lisbon, which is an insult to the irish people's rejection of the treaty. at the same time, i am opposed to the ambition to have common structures and staff to create genuine eu embassies. i believe that the eu has no competence in this area and should not have any.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are two things that strike you when you read through the swedish presidency programme. first of all, all the promises about how to use the eu to create a better economy, to solve the climate problems, etc., but not a word about the problems that the eu creates. the problems that the eu has created in our labour markets, the problems that the eu has created in our fishing sector, in our economy, in the fight against crime, etc. it is the first striking observation one has to make when reading through the swedish presidency programme that the eu is only solutions, the eu is not a problem. this says more about the swedish presidency than it does about the european union. the second is that not a word is said about the fact that the 2nd of october is to be one of the most decisive days in the history of the european union, and that under the swedish presidency. the second vote. there is no word on what the swedish presidency will do to ensure that the so-called guarantees given to the irish will also be regarded as guarantees. we've seen how people have been cheated before, cheated with votes and cheated with democracy. what will the swedish presidency do to prevent this from happening again?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has on several occasions discussed iran's human rights violations, and we are indeed doing so again today. but words alone do not change the terrible behavior of dictators. it is time for action. the brutal slaughter of a people who are hungry for freedom and who have bravely rebelled must make us share in the responsibility for bringing down this criminal regime. it has no place in the 21st century. the european governments must report the iranian regime to the un security council and demand that the guilty, above all ali khamenei and mahmoud ahmadinejad, be brought before an international tribunal. the iranian people want freedom and we must support their demand for free elections under un supervision. parliament cannot maintain its delegation with iran, which in the last session was made an instrument of the dictatorial regime's influence in our parliament. we must show that we do not cooperate with dictators.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. through an area where unexploded ordnance from two world wars and toxic chemicals from the paper industry are still found. some eur 100 million has been spent on an environmental analysis by the company that will lay the nord stream pipeline. a gas supply deal between gerhard schröder and putin. i shall not touch on the security aspect of russia's significant increase in influence in the baltic sea, but i shall stick to the environmental aspect. unfortunately, finland has already approved the project, but on behalf of timo soini and myself i would like to ask: where is the information on the project which the citizens of all the baltic states are entitled to before construction?
i have to say, madam president, i thank the commissioner for a good introduction - also to this debate. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community. but i simply cannot understand why my colleagues think that you have not done enough in the commission. i would urge you, mariann fischer boel, to repeat what you have done. i think the list of measures taken by the commission is so long that it is almost too long. it is almost time we destroyed the progress we made on the health check. and i would also say that the efforts that have been made at this stage for the dairy farmers have not been matched by those in the car industry who have lost their jobs, or those in the shipyard industry who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis we are having. so i can only urge that we take a little care in how we deal with this crisis and that we also make sure that we do not destroy the good progress that has been made in health checks after all. this whole milk quota freeze thing, it's hopeless! and we cannot go back to the old models of making export refunds - that will just destroy the market for someone else in the world. we have to be careful. but, commissioner, i must ask you to repeat the long list of efforts you have already made so that my colleagues can see that we do not need to do anything else to destroy the good progress that has been made.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on the danish liberal side we have great sympathy with the farmers who are facing great economic challenges at the moment, and we also have great sympathy with the idea of providing short-term help to those who are in need. the problem is that short-term systematic aid schemes never remain short-term despite the many fine declarations of intent. they always end up being permanent, and we all know that, whoever has been involved in implementing them, whether here or in the national parliaments. we therefore fear - and rightly so - that the measures recommended in this resolution, and indeed the commission's measures, will lead to a more permanent de facto departure from the noble reform process promoted by commissioner fischer boel for the benefit of efficient farming, and we therefore had to reject this resolution.
in writing. - we voted against the proposals for increased agricultural aid to the dairy sector. the group consistently votes to reduce agricultural aid and to continue the reform of the eu's agricultural policy. in the resolution on this subject, the socialist group voted against amendments nos 16, 17 and 19 because, despite their sympathetic content, they were not relevant to the current debate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. if there is one thing to be learned from the vote that took place in ireland, it is that there is a sufficient imbalance in the distribution of the yes and no sides, there is a sufficient imbalance in the media coverage of the matter, and if you ask enough times, it is quite possible to get a yes. but if one of these conditions is not met, then the europeans will not be persuaded to give up more sovereignty to these institutions in which we find ourselves. it is the reality we all have to face. another part of the reality - and for those who support the treaty, at least, it must be a very unpleasant part of the reality - is the way in which this treaty can be realised, which is the only way, namely in a climate of fear. a climate of fear that within the united kingdom we are facing a new situation which means that we have to ask the british people. it must be very unpleasant to be able to realize one's own visions in a climate of fear that the people of yet another country will be asked questions, that democracy will once again be allowed to speak. we heard earlier today the president of parliament say that the 'no' side will be respected. but it's very hard to see the respect for the no side. we were told that the symbols would be removed from the treaty - yet the whole house here is plastered with flags. we were told that the anthem would be removed from the treaty, but nevertheless the new parliament was celebrated by the playing of beethoven's ninth symphony. there is not much confidence left in the guarantees given to the irish voters or to us sceptics. we'd like to have trust, but it can be in a very small place.
mr president, i would like to thank you. to me, democracy means that you ask a question. you get an answer. democracy is not asking questions until you get the answer you expected. if the members of this parliament, the members of the commission and the council were not so afraid of the people, why is it that only one country has not been able to prevent the holding of a referendum? the governments and eu institutions succeeded in preventing the holding of referendums in the other 26 countries. it's not a democracy.
for the edf group. mr president, last night the environment committee adopted with great applause a wish list for santa claus at the copenhagen climate summit in december. there are many well-meaning, large and heavy gifts on the list. but, mr president, can all these well-intentioned wishes be realised when 500 million americans have health, pensions, jobs and welfare on the agenda, and 2.5 billion chinese and indians simply want the same standard of living as some of us in western europe? we have no control over the sun's activities. as you know, it determines a very large part of the climate of our planet. in other words, what can the commission realistically do to ensure that all six billion people on the planet use fewer resources here and now?
in writing. - we have voted today to waive the immunity of our colleague, mr siwiec. it would mean that in poland he could be brought before a judge just like any other citizen. we have great sympathy for mr siwiec and we agree to a large extent that the case brought against him is unfounded and politically motivated. the fact that we believe that he, like everyone else, should be able to stand trial in a court of law is linked to the fact that we must have confidence that poland will respect the basic principles of democracy and the rule of law, which are a prerequisite for membership of the european union. for the same reason, we always vote in principle for the waiver of the immunity of members of parliament - whatever the case may be.
president of the commission. - i have already answered that question, but i can say that we did have some doubts about the way in which this process was carried out. these doubts have been expressed by the commission and there is now a reassessment, in particular by general motors and the opel trust, of the way in which the offer to buy opel was made and whether in fact this offer was made on a commercial basis or not. we, the european commission, will do everything to ensure that the solution is compatible with the rules of the internal market and the rules on state aid, and we will of course be objective and rigorous in applying these rules.
president of the commission. − i support the proposed budget for next year so my advice is to vote ‘yes’. regarding the issue of being careful and rigorous, i agree with you. we have to be extremely careful with all taxpayers’ money, and we have to see the priorities. today there is a clear social urgency in some member states. there are problems of social exclusion and poverty that, i am sure, are a matter of concern to all members of this house, so we have to see what is the best way. as you know, the commission has been extremely strict, under the terms of the stability and growth pact, in committing ourselves and the european union to the rules of sustainability. of course we do not think that problems can be solved just by throwing money at them, but in fact there are situations, like the current one, when we believe special attention has to be given to a situation of social urgency. exceptional measures were needed for what was an unprecedented situation. it is a question, as always, of balance in judgement.
president of the commission. − as the distinguished member knows, i am sure, the european commission has put forward a proposal – a horizontal directive – for non-discrimination that also includes disability. and now that draft proposal is in your hands and in the hands of the european council. so i really hope that it will be approved because we are certainly against any kind of discrimination against disabled people. many of the problems you have mentioned have to be dealt with at national level because these are the measures in terms of concrete support that are to be taken by the national social security systems. but in the european union we are doing everything we can to have a binding framework that commits ourselves and all the member states to the principle of non-discrimination and to special protection for disabled people.
president of the commission. - the allocation of portfolios is not a matter for heads of state, it is a matter for the president of the commission, and i will certainly use this matter in the way i see fit. i have already made some announcements when discussing the programme of the next commission with you, but i am actually in contact with the heads of state and government. i can tell you that today i sent a letter to all of them asking them to send me women as candidates to the college. i am very concerned about the problem of gender balance and if i do nothing, i will have practically no women because normally governments only want male candidates for the next commission. so i sent this letter today. as far as the actual distribution is concerned, there will be no great revolution. i have already announced the main innovations in the debate with you, including the commissioner for justice and fundamental rights, a commissioner for action on climate change, and of course now i need to have competent men and women, committed to europe, who can carry out their respective tasks in the different portfolios, which will correspond to the priorities of the european union's action.
president of the commission. − i would like to thank graham watson for this very important question. in fact, that is the core of the programme for the next five years: to invest more in smart, green growth, sustainable growth. this is very important. we have to understand that the model of the future will not be like the model of the past. i am for a strong industrial base in europe – but a strong industrial base for the new age of sustainability, where we have to think about green development, green technologies. that is where we can create new products, new markets. this is a good example. that is why we are organising our future programme in terms of what i called, in my political guidelines, ‘new sources of growth’. because with the traditional sources of growth we will not win the battle of competitiveness with big emerging economies like china and india. so innovation has to be at the core, at the centre of our agenda for growth, new sources of growth promoting the transition to a low-carbon economy: smart green development and innovation. i think innovation will be key for the development of the european economy in the future.
mr president of the commission! the financial crisis has given rise to an economic crisis of historic proportions, and unemployment is currently rising sharply in europe. the unemployment rate for young people under 25 in europe is, as you said, 19.8%, and in spain more than one in three young people under 25 are unemployed. we are losing a whole generation on the floor right now and so far you, mr barroso, have done almost nothing to solve that problem. i hear today that you are very concerned about this, and i am glad of that. i would like to confirm that. although the responsibility for employment policy lies at national level, there is also a need for european responsibility and initiatives. i'd like to make three points: firstly, commissioner špidla promised 5 million traineeship places for young people in europe. where are they? secondly, we are adopting growth and rescue packages right now throughout europe. why do they not include a targeted job campaign for young people? thirdly, what will you do to ensure that the new post-lisbon strategy includes a stronger social profile and a stronger plan for young people?
the alde group is not in favour of this. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking mr lászló surján for his great effort in keeping the budgetary process together. it is said that many member states are having serious problems with their public budgets, and we must also keep our heads down. that is true, but you will not find a public budget more regulated than the eu budget. in the alde group we support the outcome of the vote in the committee on budgets. we support the budget proposal put forward by mr surján. for us, the financing of the recovery plan's investments in energy and climate policy and the focus on research and innovation have been the main priorities for the 2010 budget. that is also the direction we want to see the eu budget take in the future - that it focuses on these areas. we find it too bad that neither the commission nor the council has given any indication as to where we should find the money for these investments in the recovery plan - investments which not only we in parliament but also the eu heads of government support. it is grotesque that we have to see this play again and again, where you can indicate the cost but cannot find a decent funding. we therefore support mr surján's proposal to go beyond the multiannual financial framework and see whether the money for energy investments can be raised from unused funds in the agricultural budget. the alde group also supports the proposal to allocate eur 300 million to a milk fund to alleviate the current crisis for milk producers. we share the view that the crisis is serious and must be addressed. personally, i am not in favour of the new fund because the commission already has the tools to help the industry and has also set aside almost eur 0.5 billion for this purpose. the committee on agriculture wanted to add to this half a billion eur 600 million for a milk fund, and i think that the result of the vote in the committee on budgets - eur 300 million - is a more realistic solution. the present draft budget removes some of the council's savings and provides a more realistic assessment of the payment needs for the coming year, and the multiannual agreement is proving to be a rigid and inflexible framework, especially as regards category 1a, where we have research, education and transport, and category 3, where we have justice and asylum policy and cultural and information policy, and foreign policy, where the ceiling in category 4 is chronically too narrow. i would also like to thank mr maňka for his work on the budgets of the other institutions. the budget of parliament is just under 20% of the total administrative expenditure in the eu, and this despite the fact that we have taken over the expenditure on members' salaries with the new member state. our group believes that we should be careful about excessive increases in the amount of money for political parties, but we have accepted the proposal that was now on the table, and i would also like to thank mr maňka for focusing on translation expenditure and on parliament's building policy. it is time for us to have interinstitutional cooperation and a multiannual review of parliament's building policy - something we have been asking for a long time. now we have to get it on the table.
for the edf group. i was asked yesterday to give three reasons why we should vote against this report. it is simply democracy, democracy and democracy. firstly, it is a farce that a parliament would even want to implement a report based on a treaty whose fate is still completely uncertain. no one knows what the future of the lisbon treaty will be, and if there was the slightest respect for democratic structures - the slightest respect for member states like the czech republic - this project would have been put on hold until there was clarity about the treaty. secondly, this report (and the whole of the foreign service now being set up) is a complete disregard, undermining and disavowal of the sovereign right of member states to conduct their own foreign policy. that is why the report wants to put everything under the commission. the commission's brilliance lies precisely in the fact that it is not an elected official. that is to say, if the people want a different foreign policy, there is no chance in the world of changing the policy being pursued, because it is only the council, that is to say the governments, that can be replaced - not the commission! thirdly, it is a democratic farce that this parliament wants to put so much power, some very central areas of sovereignty, under the commission. the commission, which has no popular mandate. this parliament is based on nothing but power. never ever on the demos. we need to focus on the demos instead. we need to focus on the people and not just on power. that is why we need more democracy. this report should therefore be rejected.
i have to say, madam president, in russia, there is only freedom of the press in name and not in effect. critical journalists are being intimidated, persecuted and murdered. russia is ranked 153rd in the world for press freedom - meaning that press freedom in russia is now worse than in belarus, sudan and zimbabwe. is there really a reward for that? but it doesn't stop here. we have the question of gas supplies to the citizens of europe. here we see again this year that the russians threaten to destabilize the gas supply. there is a suggestion that we must prepare ourselves for the possibility that this will happen every winter in the future. but can it really be right that we should reward russia for this development? the council and the commission: instead of just talking nicely to the russians, it might be appropriate to take the magazine out of their mouths and say that this is simply not acceptable. what are we going to do about the negative developments in russia in relation to the eu? or are they planning to just let it go? or will this negative development be rewarded?
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, thank you to mrs paliadeli for a brilliant report and the ombudsman is to be commended for the good and user-friendly overview of the cases - a commendation which i share. i have little time, so i shall stick to three points: firstly, the ombudsman's follow-up to the agreement between him and the european investment bank. this is an initiative taken by our group in connection with parliament's resolution on the 2006 annual report. it is important to highlight the improvements in the bank's cooperation with ngos and other civil society actors, which make this cooperation easier and more transparent, and i thank you for that. secondly, the amendment by the green group to ask the committee on constitutional affairs to draw up useful procedures for bringing cases before the court of justice, where parliament will support the ombudsman's recommendations. it will in a concrete way strengthen the ombudsman and thus the legal position of citizens. we have had parliament's support in principle for this in the past. we hope that the house will now follow the committee and vote in favour of this amendment. the third point is our amendment today to make the ombudsman's competence more clear in the matter of maladministration. we fear that the very open wording of the report could give rise to serious problems of interpretation. although our proposal looks rather technical, it is considerably more secure in legal terms than the wording of the report. we are pleased that mrs paliadeli has given her support to the proposal and i hope, of course, to have the whole of parliament with us.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i would also like to start by expressing my satisfaction that we now have the treaty of lisbon in place, which will give parliament more power over the budget and change the way we adopt the eu's annual budget. we are in a transitional phase, where the 2010 budget has been adopted under the old treaty and we need to have monitoring and follow-up of the implementation of the budget under the new treaty. and how we actually solve this problem is something we have been able to get a handle on with mr lamassoure's report, and i would also like to thank mr lamassoure for taking the initiative quickly. the alde group wholeheartedly supports the report which indicates how we are to deal with amending budgets and transfers and the other things which have already been mentioned. the eec group has a number of amendments which propose that we should abolish amending budgets and abolish carryovers. and i can say that the alde group votes against all the proposals of the epp group. we agree with mr lamassoure that the amount of amending budgets should be kept down. but unexpected things happen in the course of a year, and that is why such an instrument is needed. and that is also the case in national parliaments. you can make changes during the year. the increasing number of requests for money from the globalisation fund in connection with large redundancies will in itself lead to a number of amending budgets. nor should we abolish the possibility of transfers between accounts. there are very firm rules on how and how much the commission can transfer. it cannot just go and do whatever it wants. it must consult parliament and the council first. the report also points out that the financial regulation and the interinstitutional agreement now need to be amended, and i very much look forward to receiving a response from the commission shortly.
for the edf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, today marks one month until christmas eve. i have a great christmas wish, namely that when the climate conference is over and all the participants have stopped acting as administrators and technicians who talk only about details and quotas, we can finally have a political debate about what can be done realistically and practically to improve the conditions for our planet and its people. because if we open our eyes, we can clearly see that the united states, russia, china and many other countries around the world do not realistically have climate on their agenda, but only make beautiful declarations of intent and empty promises.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a few months ago, i was in greenland. here i visited a small town called illulisat, and a little north of illulisat is a glacier. this glacier is melting now, and it's moving two meters an hour two meters an hour! you can see it with the naked eye. you can hear it, because when these giant chunks of ice fall off, it sounds like thunder. the amount of meltwater that comes out of this glacier each day is equivalent to the annual consumption of an entire city like new york! during the day! well, that's saying something about us being busy! and this is before climate change really hits us. i therefore have to say to mr rosbach and others who have spoken here today that 'now we must be even-tempered', 'now we must see what is politically possible', 'now we must see what compromises we can reach'. so there are some things we cannot compromise! there are some objectives that we cannot compromise on, and one of them is the two-degree target that the eu supports. that is why, minister carlgren and commissioner dimas, i am very, very pleased with the signals you are sending today. we can't compromise on the 2 degrees. that means that we need to have reductions of between 25 and 40 per cent for all the developed countries of the world. it also means that massive pressure must be put on the united states to back up this objective. i would like you to give an estimate in your comments of the actual reduction that the united states will have to provide. i think that is what is lacking in the public debate. what we are focusing on from the eu side is - in addition to having some reduction targets which are ambitious enough - a financing plan. the rich countries of the world must help pay for the fact that we can reverse the growth of the poorest countries of the world, so that we do not demand that they be kept in poverty, but that they continue to grow. but this growth must be green, it must be based on technological change, and it must be sustainable. unfortunately, so far we have not been able to put the necessary amounts on the table, despite the fact that the eu has shown leadership in a number of areas. i know it's not the fault of those two gentlemen. unfortunately, it has not been possible to win the support of the broad circle of european heads of state. but i very much hope that we will have this support before copenhagen, and we are in a hurry. finally, i would say that it is extremely important that we as europe should argue and lead the way in saying that this does not lead to a fall in living standards, either in the rich world or in the poor world. this does not mean that our industries cannot compete. on the contrary, it leads us to set some requirements which will make them more innovative, which will make them more competitive in the world. when you read the newspapers or watch television or generally follow the media picture globally, there are a lot of pessimists. many have already said that copenhagen will be a failure. that is why we in europe need to be at the forefront, the eu needs to be in the driver's seat, more than ever. i therefore wish you every success with the negotiations in copenhagen.
president of the commission. − i agree with your general point that the institutions are also the way we shape them in practice. that is why i was so happy with the designation of cathy ashton and herman van rompuy, because i know that both of them are committed to a real european spirit and to community matters. regarding the practicalities, cathy ashton will become high representative and vice-president of the commission, by virtue of the european council decision, on 1 december. on the same day she will become responsible for the external relations portfolio as vice-president of the commission. as vice-president of the commission she is accountable to parliament, and parliament knows how much cathy ashton is committed to parliamentary democracy. i know that she is anxious to meet as quickly as possible with the committee on foreign affairs so that her new role can be launched on the right footing. with regard to the next college, catherine ashton will also have a hearing alongside the other commissioners-designate and will be subject to your collective vote on the next college.
president of the commission. − first of all, as you know, the provisions of the lisbon treaty were fully respected and i, of course, support the implementation of the treaties. we have to respect the rule of law in the european union. regarding the persons that were chosen, honestly i think we have to respect them because minister van rompuy is prime minister of belgium and lady ashton is a member of the commission. so i believe they have the qualities to fulfil their responsibilities. regarding the institutions, it is important to note that the president of the council has to be selected by the heads of state and government. it is not an election like that for the president of france or the president of portugal. it is the president of the european council, and that president is selected by the heads of state and government. it is different from the president of the commission, who was selected by the heads of state and government and elected by this parliament. so we have to respect the different logic of the different institutions.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr president of the commission! there has also been a great deal of talk on this point about the composition of the commission and the portfolios that will come. one of the things we are very concerned about in the alde group is what portfolios the new climate commissioner will have, as it will be crucial whether he becomes a hot air traveller or a commissioner who can really make a difference in relation to climate change and at the same time ensure good competitiveness in europe. i would therefore like to ask what the president of the commission is doing and will be doing to ensure that the post of climate commissioner is given the weight that the president of the commission has expressed that it should have. i have two specific questions in this connection: will the climate commissioner take over the energy sector? and the climate commissioner gets his own directorate?
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you for your many and interesting contributions to this debate. i would like to begin by trying to summarize some of the most basic principles in this matter. i do so in part on the basis of the first speech by véronique mathieu, in which she raised the question of mixed migration flows. we have mixed flows coming into the european union, and since the european union does not have unlimited reception capacity, as mr mathieu pointed out, it is important to have an individual assessment of legal certainty in order to determine who should receive protection in accordance with european legislation and international conventions. the commission is monitoring this through directives adopted unanimously by the union. this naturally brings me back to the points made earlier by sylvie guillaume and marielle de sarnez, namely whether afghanistan is a country where the security of the individual can be guaranteed. yes, that is what this whole discussion is about! that is precisely what an individual examination is intended to clarify and ensure. the establishment of a common european asylum system is intended to achieve this objective. i think that several speakers have completely ignored this in their speeches, namely that a fair trial, aimed at making it clear that a yes is a yes and a no is a no, is what we must strive for. in the event of a 'no' vote, a return shall take place, regardless of whether - i repeat this so that everyone understands exactly what the presidency means - to which country it is referring. if we have clarified and ensured that a person is not in need of individual protection, we can in good conscience return that individual to the country of origin. if this is done in a coordinated way on an aircraft where, as commissioner barrot pointed out, several different cases, each of which has been given a separate hearing, are on board, or if you go alone, it is of secondary importance. it's just a logistical issue in context. i would like to turn to franziska keller, who always makes interesting arguments on these issues. yes, i share the view that the issue of access is complicated. it is not easy today to have a system which basically requires that you be present in the european union to lodge your asylum application, while at the same time you may not always find it particularly easy to come here to our union to do so. but that is precisely why we have been working under the swedish presidency to establish a common european resettlement system, which will enable this union to offer another route, a passage, for those people who are perhaps the most in need of protection, the most vulnerable, those people who do not have the financial means to come here to the union. let me say that if all the member states of the union could offer as many places as sweden does today - we have 1 900 on an annual basis - in relation to its population size, then the european union could offer 100 000 places to the unhcr, the un refugee agency, on an annual basis. it is no small strategic reserve to be able to close the worst refugee camps around the world and stand up and show the solidarity that we, as the presidency, believe the union should show with the countries beyond our borders that are actually hosting the majority of the refugees in this world.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i thank all those who have spoken. the major difficulty we are facing is what mrs mathieu called mixed flows, where we have immigrants who come for economic or environmental reasons and, at the same time, people who are persecuted and who are entitled to international protection or subsidiary protection. that is the difficulty, and that is what we have to understand to deal with these problems. it's very, very difficult. what i want first is to answer. i shall read some of the french reply. i cannot answer everything, since you have asked me about it. i read the following from the french reply: 'the persons concerned who had not spontaneously applied for asylum were arrested in an irregular situation and placed in administrative detention under the control of the judge responsible for the freedom of movement and detention. each person was notified in his/her native language of his/her right to challenge the decision to deport him/her to afghanistan before the administrative court and of his/her right to apply for asylum with the french office for the protection of refugees and stateless persons (ofpra), or to benefit from a voluntary return measure implemented with the international organisation for migration. of these foreigners, only one did not lodge an asylum application or appeal before the administrative court, and two others had their application examined by ofpra and heard in the presence of an interpreter. they were able, during a hearing before the administrative court, with the assistance of a lawyer and an interpreter, to explain the risks they believed they would face if they returned to their country of origin. while ofpra has recognised refugee status or subsidiary protection for several afghan nationals who have applied for protection under similar conditions, in this case ofpra considered that there was no serious reason to believe that these persons would be exposed to a real risk of persecution or serious harm to their life or person if returned.' we have also received a reply from the british government. i have done what my conscience and my office demanded, and we have made sure that we have consulted the member states. what i would also like to say to you is that, with regard to the notion of a safe country, there is a case law of the court of justice and the european court of human rights which says that the mere fact of coming from a country or region experiencing unrest cannot in itself justify absolute protection against expulsion and entitle one to subsidiary protection, unless, exceptionally, it is a situation of general violence reaching such a high level that any person, simply because of his presence in the country or region concerned, is at real risk of being subjected to threats to his life or person. and it is true that those exceptional circumstances were not invoked in this case. i would also like to comment on the question of group flights. it must be said that frontex has already organised group flights and has partly financed these group flights. i think it's worth saying. there was already one in 2008, there was one in 2009, so it's not new. what frontex is trying to do, and i believe the director of frontex is trying to do, is to ensure that these group returns are carried out under conditions which are appropriate in terms of respect for people. even the director of frontex told me recently that he had observed that in austria there was an ombudsman who was watching precisely the conditions under which these returns were made. what is also hoped to be developed is an expertise to ensure that when these people are returned - after it has been ascertained that they do not meet the definition of international protection or subsidiary protection - that they are accepted in their country of origin under the right conditions. this is also the point we are considering at the request of the european council. we are not content to imagine forced returns without any guarantee of respect for the individual. i would like to remind you in particular - and i thank tobias billström and the swedish presidency for their help - that in the spring we started to put on the table the texts that will make it possible to move towards a europe of asylum. we have a text on reception conditions, we have reviewed it and marielle de sarnez has rightly mentioned it, the dublin problem, we have mentioned precisely the adaptation of the dublin regulation to avoid that this regulation could, at certain times, be contrary to the interests of vulnerable people and in particular children, and we have accepted the principle of certain derogations from the dublin regulation. on 21 october, the commission adopted two other important texts, one on the qualification directive and the other on the asylum procedures directive. it is in this draft new directive on asylum procedures that we are trying to establish criteria which are really objective, which are the same everywhere. we will need the help desk to verify precisely that the practices are more or less the same throughout europe so that this europe of asylum can finally be born. i thank the swedish presidency for introducing these various texts to the council, but they are still far from being adopted. and we have difficulties. i am doing everything in my power to try to get this europe of asylum moving, helped in this by the swedish presidency which has set an example the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the member states are showing greater solidarity in welcoming these refugees and providing them with protection. we need all countries to get involved. we are not there yet and there are still countries that are not welcoming. that's what i was trying to say. i am well aware that i have not answered all the questions. what i can tell you is that at least at the commission level we have done everything possible to ensure that european law is respected and, i would say even more, that european values are respected.
the commission is not - thank you, mr president. seven months ago - to be precise, on 23 april - a large majority in this house refused to approve the council's 2007 budget. why would you do that? because the council's behaviour towards parliament and towards the committee on budgetary control was totally unacceptable. the council refused to answer written questions which we put to it about its budget and the council refused to appear before the committee on budgetary control and answer questions. the situation was so absurd that council representatives would leave meetings when questions were asked about the council's budget. actually, it was nothing new. it's been going on for years, actually. the new thing was that parliament said stop in april. i think that most members in april asked themselves the simple question: how can i, as a member of the european parliament, take responsibility for the council's budget to my constituents when the council will not even answer the questions that we in parliament put to it? i think that was the question which led the vast majority of this house to choose not to approve the council budget. perhaps some people thought that parliament would become more cooperative after the june elections, that parliament's demands for openness and transparency might have been a little more of an electoral ploy than a genuine attitude. if so, they have been disappointed. we have also been united in the committee on budgetary control on a very simple point of view since the elections: if the council wants us to approve its budget, it must meet with us and then it must answer our questions. at the end of september, something finally happened. on 24 september the council met the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, the rapporteur and the coordinators. at the same time, the council replied - albeit indirectly - to the committee's questions, and these replies have also been posted on the council's website. let me make this clear. it was a wise move by the council, a very wise move. that is why we in the committee on budgetary control can today recommend that parliament approve the council's budget for 2007. but let me also be clear: we both expect and assume that this step will reflect a change of attitude on the part of the council towards parliament. as regards the council's 2008 budget, we do not expect to see a repeat of the theatre of the absurd of 2007. on the contrary, we assume that we start from the level at which we have finally reached. that is to say, we expect the council to give written answers to questions from parliament's competent committee and rapporteur without undue delay. we expect the council to be willing to appear before the competent committees and answer questions. for the avoidance of doubt, this is clearly stated in the report we are discussing today, which parliament will hopefully adopt tomorrow, if not unanimously, then by a very large majority. by approving the council's 2007 budget, we have shown our positive attitude. the ball is now in the council's court.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? thank you for this debate on a very important issue. i'm glad we agree on the importance of openness and transparency. this is the basis not only for good cooperation between us but also for citizens' confidence in the european institutions. the council, like the european parliament, is keen to take up its responsibility for ensuring the greatest possible transparency in taxpayers' money, and these issues are of even greater relevance with the new treaty, which will enter into force in just one week's time. the wider discussion on the forms of scrutiny of the union's financial management should take place in the context of the review of the regulatory framework and the annual procedure for the eu budget that will be necessary as a result of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. but the council is and will be striving to always follow the rules and to apply transparency in our financial management. in relation to the european parliament, we will continue to apply the practice established over the years and will continue to hold a dialogue with the european parliament on an informal basis next year to clarify any questions that may arise in relation to the implementation of the budget. in this context, i look forward to a continued dialogue with the european parliament on the issue of discharge and am confident that we will continue next year to have a constructive, informal dialogue on the court's 2008 report. thank you very much for this debate.
the commission is not mr president, thank you to all the speakers who have contributed to this debate. i will take up directly what mrs andreasen and mr ehrenhauser said, because when we started this process, the starting point was that the seat down there was empty. when we started this process, the starting point was that when we asked the commission and asked for written answers, we received no answers. when we started this process, the starting point was that the commission would leave the meetings when we started asking questions. that was the starting point. we must now decide whether we have taken a step forward or whether we are in the same situation. the question is not whether we have achieved everything we wanted. i agree that we have not achieved all that we wanted. it is enough to read my report and now the committee's report to see that there is still dissatisfaction. i would also urge the council to read the report very carefully because there are many good elements in it which can be used in relation to next year. but we've gone one step further. because when we start the 2008 discharge, and we are doing so now, we are not starting from a blank sheet of paper. so we'll start from where we are this year. i therefore think it is right to defend what we have achieved by voting yes and then continue the fight as it is. it will be when we see how it goes this year and next year and next year again that we will know whether we did the right thing. it is therefore essential that we as committees and as parliament are able to stand together and to stick to what has been our common starting point all along. i would like to thank the secretariat, the shadow rapporteurs and the whole committee, including the chairman, for the fact that we have been able to stand together. if we are able to maintain that consensus, also in relation to the 2008 discharge, then we will also be able to take that step forward in 2008 which we did not take in 2007. then we are able to get what we all want.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to request a roll-call vote on the discharge of the council’s budget 2007. i think that it is important that the council can see the broad support from this parliament behind our demands to the council on more cooperation with parliament and its competent committees on the next discharge procedure.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today, 25 november, women and men around the world are marking the un's international day for the elimination of violence against women. violence against women is a major social problem which cannot be reduced to a women's problem. it is a violation of human rights, the right to life and the right to security. the un estimates that seven out of ten women experience violence from men during their lifetime. in fact, men's violence kills more women than malaria, traffic accidents, terrorism, and war combined. we can't just sit here with our hands in our lap. we need to act now. the commission must present as soon as possible a plan for the eu's policy to combat all forms of violence against women. if we look at the efforts of the various member states, it is quite clear that some countries take the problem more seriously than others. the spanish, who will take over the presidency of the council on 1 january, have placed the fight against violence against women at the top of their presidency's agenda. as the only eu member state, spain has set up a violence observatory which reports annually on the evolution of gender-based violence and continuously updates the best possible strategy to combat it. let us support the initiative of the forthcoming spanish presidency to set up an eu observatory on violence for the benefit of all european women.
(for the french communist and allies group) - madam president, on behalf of the greens i would like to stress that we find the messages contained in this resolution on the ratification and implementation of the ilo conventions very necessary and very urgent. why would you do that? we do this for two reasons. firstly, the eu should be at the forefront of the fight for decent work. we should be a leader in the world in promoting good working conditions and decent work. secondly, as has been mentioned here today, there is a growing gap between what we say and what we do. this is a gap between the eu's internal and external reactions. when the eu forgets, or when its member states forget or ignore to ratify and implement updated conventions, it is not only bad for europe's workers. it is also a very bad signal to send to those countries outside the eu which we are asking to ratify the same conventions. we should practice what we preach. it is vital that the eu is a leader on the global stage, that we show that we are a region that combines good working conditions and a high level of competitiveness. the ilo is our global player in terms of regulation worldwide. it is essential that the eu supports the ilo as an institution and that we take the ilo conventions seriously. that is why the green group fully supports the messages of this resolution and we call on the competent bodies of the european union to press the member states to take it as seriously as we are taking it here tonight.
member of the commission. − madam president, over the last few years, the commission has repeatedly highlighted its commitment to the internationally agreed decent work agenda, including the promotion of ilo conventions. the commission has actively supported the member states and closely cooperated with the ilo with a view to adopting ambitious legal standards which meet the challenges of a globalised economy and contribute to the implementation of the ilo’s decent work agenda. the council and the european parliament have underlined the importance of the decent work agenda and of the commission’s activities in this respect. the eu member states have already ratified all ilo conventions covering core labour standards and a large number of other ilo conventions. the commission has reaffirmed its commitment to the decent work agenda as part of the renewed social agenda. in particular, the commission called upon all member states to set an example by ratifying and implementing the ilo conventions classified by the ilo as ‘up to date’. in doing so, the commission underlines both the internal and the external dimension of the decent work agenda. in addition, where ilo conventions have involved exclusive community competences, the commission has issued timely proposals for council decisions authorising the member states to ratify the relevant conventions combined with a call to ratify the standards as soon as possible, notably the maritime labour convention and the work in fishing convention. finally, the 2008 decent work report provides for the monitoring of the policy developments with regard to the ratification process. the outcome of this analysis is expected to be reflected in the follow-up decent work report to be published in 2011.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. we have a single market in the eu where we can sell goods to each other in a free market. we are ensuring free competition and cheap goods, and that is good and proper. but other areas must follow. fundamental workers' rights must be guaranteed and respected throughout the eu. we must not compete among the eu countries on poor working conditions, just as workers in all member states must be guaranteed equal pay for equal work, and just as the right to strike is a fundamental right. this is why close cooperation between the eu and the international labour organisation (ilo) is important. we share some of the same values and we can use the ilo conventions as a basis for further developing the european social model. unfortunately, this is not possible today, since the commission considers conventions to be binding only if they have been ratified by more than half the member states. we could start with this: that all eu member states ratify and implement at least the conventions that the ilo has classified as up to date. there is no need for more talk, there is need for more action. how else can we encourage other countries in the world to ratify and implement the ilo conventions and call on the wto to incorporate the fundamental rights of workers in all trade agreements? no, we have to go ahead in the eu. we can then call for all countries to ratify and implement these conventions. we need to promote decent work in the eu and in the world as a sustainable and strong response to the global crisis we are facing.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, first of all i would like to express my satisfaction that progress has been made in the area of the non-payment of the eu budget. that's good! but at the same time, it has also been found that when it comes to the cohesion area, there are huge problems - and the cohesion area is the second largest area, which in 2008 took €36.6 billion. it is a huge problem in relation to ordinary taxpayers in the eu that at least 11% of the total amount reimbursed should not have been paid. this is a huge problem! how can we explain the fact that year after year - because in this field it is really year after year - billions of crowns are paid out in violation of the rules or perhaps even for outright fraud. the court of auditors concentrates a great deal in its recommendations on improving the control mechanisms and simplifying the rules, and that is good! but the question is whether this gigantic decline can really be reduced by control and simplification of the rules alone, or whether it is a matter of fundamental structural errors. our group is in favour of solidarity. we support the transfer of money from the richest to the poorest regions and countries both inside and outside the eu, but when you read the report, the question is whether the eu has found the right way to do it! is it effective for all countries to contribute to a system which then distributes subsidies to the very bottom of each country, including those paid by the very richest? everyone knows that the longer a wire is, the greater the risk that something will disappear along the way. that is why we need to have a thorough discussion of the whole question of the flow of money in the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the court of auditors for a very good and very useful report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a question of whether one is an optimist or a pessimist. i think that there are too many people here today who have been too optimistic. the commissioner has also been too optimistic. i don't think that's good enough, actually! if a danish finance minister had been responsible for this budget, where less than half of the budget can be accepted as a flawless budget, where less than half of the budget, only 47%, is green, he would have been thrown out. i think it is deeply regrettable that there is still so much to be done and i think it is deeply regrettable that things are going as slowly as they are. i recognize that it is difficult and i recognize that the rules can be very complicated. i also acknowledge that progress has been made, but it is not enough! if we look at the speed with which we are improving the green part of the budget, it is going too slowly! the commission must take its responsibilities! you have the tools, you have to react faster.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the directive. we supported today the resolution on the 'fao summit and food security' - a resolution which focuses on the major challenges we face in eradicating hunger and ensuring better prospects for the developing countries in the future - but we strongly reject the glorious things about agricultural policy and aid in paragraphs 3, 9 and 14 for example.
in writing. - members of the left voted in favour of the resolution on food security, as we want to underline the importance of the eu taking on a global responsibility in the fight against hunger and poverty. however, we reject article 9 of the resolution, which calls into question the continued liberalization of the eu's agricultural policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive.
i have to say, madam president, i thank you, commissioner, for your opening statement. if i understand you correctly, you would have an inquiry launched to see whether there is indeed a problem of too many toxins in children's toys in germany, as the inquiry shows. if that's true, i'd say it's good. it is extremely important that we act quickly. if there is any suspicion that our children's safety is in danger, we must act. and we appreciate, of course, that the commission will come back to us in parliament very quickly and give us an indication as to whether there was any progress on the matter or not. but i would say that when it comes to the softening agents in toys, there are actually a number of scientists who say that there is no safe limit. the only safe thing to do is to keep the emollients completely out of our children's toys. i really think we should take that into account and consider whether we should tighten up the rules. i am not sure they are good enough even in the new toy directive. but i would also like to raise another point in this connection, and that is: we received a month and a half ago a study from the commission on the new market surveillance law, on how it had been implemented in the individual member states. and it is true that it is the member states' job to ensure that market surveillance works; but here it turned out that, despite our tightening up the rules, only two member states chose to allocate more money to market surveillance. we should be able to do better than that! it is precisely to prevent us from getting bad stories about unsafe toys on the market that we need much better market surveillance. so i hope the commission will also ensure that the member states comply.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? it is a great honor for me to be here today at your debate. the 2010 budgetary procedure has been a demanding one and i am pleased with the agreement reached between our institutions at the mediation meeting in mid-november. this agreement serves two purposes, equal but different. on the one hand, it creates the framework for the preparation of the 2010 budget with the aim of enabling the european union to function as smoothly as possible, to implement the policies as we wish, while guaranteeing a controlled increase in payments, especially in the present situation of our member states. on the other hand, it ensures, inter alia, the full financing of the second part of the recovery plan. it is a major contribution by the european union to the management of the current economic and financial situation. i would also like to express the council's satisfaction with the agreement we have reached on the common foreign and security policy. i believe that the 2010 budget as a whole represents a balanced compromise between, on the one hand, the need for budgetary discipline and sound financial management and, on the other, our duty to meet the expectations of the citizens. the budget also represents a compromise between different political groups, between different countries, between the council's and parliament's different interests. this is not in any way the budget that the council wanted from the beginning. nor is it in all respects the budget that parliament wanted from the outset. but i think it is a good compromise that best balances our objectives and our priorities. in this context, i would like to express my pride that we, that is parliament, the council as the budgetary authority, with a lot of help from the commission, were able to show the necessary leadership and responsibility and reach the overall agreement that we did in november. i think this is the right signal to send when the treaty of lisbon comes into force. this would not have been possible without a joint effort, because it was a joint effort of all the actors involved. nor would it have been possible without the excellent and constructive atmosphere which, in our opinion, has characterised the whole procedure. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, alain lamassoure, for his strength, openness and negotiating skills. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, lászló surján and vladimír maňka, for their constructive cooperation. i would also like to express my gratitude to my colleagues in the ecofin council and to thank in particular commissioner algirdas šemeta, who fulfilled his role as an honest broker to the fullest. last but not least, i would like to thank all the staff at the three institutions who helped make this possible. they did it in a very professional way.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am very happy to have the opportunity to speak to parliament before it finalises its second reading with thursday’s vote on the 2010 budget and on amending budget no 10/2009, which has, in part, contributed to the successful outcome of the annual budgetary procedure. the negotiations on the 2010 budget have required compromises and – may i dare to say – even sacrifices on all sides to achieve our common goal. this would not have been possible without the constructive and responsible role played by the european parliament and the council throughout the negotiations. i would like to highlight four main points. firstly, let me point out some key elements of the conciliation outcome. since the joint declaration agreed last april, we knew that we had to strike a delicate balance to find a source of financing for the eur 2.4 billion of the european economic recovery plan still outstanding. that could only be achieved through a compensation mechanism and by using all budgetary means existing in the multiannual financial framework. this was indeed a difficult constraint. despite such a difficult constraint, we succeeded in financing completely the recovery plan in 2010 and, as the general rapporteur points out, in agreeing on an eu budget that can be a tool to help overcome the economic crisis. in times of difficulties, i believe the message to citizens is even stronger as we have also been able to respond at the same time to the unforeseen specific needs of milk producers, with the substantial support of parliament. last but not least, the two arms of the budgetary authority have acknowledged the need for further assistance in 2010 to bulgaria’s efforts relating to the decommissioning of the kozloduy nuclear power plant, through the use of the flexibility instrument. secondly, as regards the reserves, let me thank parliament and particularly the general rapporteur, mr surján, for taking into account the responses given by the commission in reaction to parliament’s first reading, in the so-called ‘letter of executability’. that has led to an important reduction in the reserves entered in the 2010 draft budget at the time of parliament’s first reading. thirdly, i wish to stress the importance of a smooth transition to the lisbon treaty. we are now definitively rooted in the lisbon treaty as regards the budgetary procedure. despite the uncertainties relating to the entry into force of the new treaty, we have been able to secure a smooth transition into the new legal framework. the period ahead of us will be a challenge for all the institutions, as it will imply a modification of their approach and behaviour, with the need for reinforced dialogue from the very start of the budgetary procedure. the commission is ready to play its part and to reconcile positions in the new conciliation committee, while respecting the rights of the two arms of the budgetary authority, on an equal footing. today, we know that efforts are still to be made to put in place all the new legal instruments stemming from the entry into force of the treaty. nonetheless, by building on the loyal interinstitutional collaboration developed over the last two decades, we have been able to agree on a set of transitional measures that will allow the 2010 budget to work effectively. finally, there is amending budget no 10/2009, revision of the financial framework and mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. i take note that parliament has also agreed to adopt the proposals on the revision of the multiannual financial framework and, as already mentioned, on the flexibility instrument and amending budget no 10. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr böge, for endorsing the results of the conciliation. this shows that, to achieve our goal, we have been able to make the best use of the tools provided by the current interinstitutional agreement. i would like also to express my thanks to the rapporteur for the 2009 budget, mrs haug, for her work throughout the year on the implementation of the 2009 budget and her support for amending budget no 10/2009, which is part of the ‘package’ linked with the revision of the multiannual financial framework and the financing of the recovery plan. i have also noted your critical remarks towards the commission about the need to improve its performance in terms of budget implementation. this year’s amending budget foresees a reduction of eur 3.2 billion in payment appropriations, which is significantly lower than the eur 4.9 billion reduction of last year, and points to an improvement in the execution of a budget which, after the proposed reduction, is set at eur 113 billion for 2009. however, there is still room for further improvement, and i can assure you that the commission will continue to do its utmost to make best use of the authorised budget appropriations in 2010. as to the issue of the simplification of procedures in order to accelerate the implementation of expenses, while this avenue can be explored, i believe a careful balance needs to be struck between real simplification and the need to abide by the rules in order to safeguard the eu’s financial interests. once again, i would like to express my thanks to parliament’s negotiating team, and in particular to the chair of the budget committee, mr lamassoure, and to the rapporteurs for the 2010 budget, mr surján and mr maňka. i would also like to thank the council’s negotiating team and, in particular, the state secretary, mr lindblad, for the constructive work done during the budgetary process. i hope that today’s debate will be constructive and productive and will lead to a positive vote on the 2010 budget this thursday.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, i thank mr surján for the success of the negotiations. i would like to express my satisfaction, as others have, that we in parliament were able to maintain our important priorities during the second reading, even if we were to find some savings in the agreement we had with the council. in addition to the energy investments in the recovery plan, it has also been possible to allocate additional money to budget lines directed towards research and innovation in the field of energy. we have succeeded in securing our pilot projects and preparatory actions, which are new initiatives that we are launching on behalf of parliament, and i would also like to say personally that we in the alde group are pleased that we have succeeded in securing the money for the baltic sea strategy. i would like to stress two things, as other speakers have done, firstly the lack of flexibility, where i would like mr semeta, who will continue in the commission in another post, to take into account the fact that we need this mid-term review of the budget. and that the commission, the new commission, takes this seriously. firstly, we have to look at things and ask ourselves: are there any new priorities that we have to make within this framework? are there any programs that don't work properly? can there be a change in the priorities within the framework, or do we need a real review? we are in the position of having a cash-box, because the multiannual financial framework has allocated a lot of money to agriculture at the beginning. but it is not there at the end, so it will be difficult now, and this has been stressed by mr böge. now comes the moment of truth. the next few years will be very, very difficult in terms of finding flexibility if we cannot get the finance ministers to provide more money, and i think that will be more difficult than usual in the economic situation we are in. there is another matter which i would also like to raise and which i would also like to bring to your attention, mr semeta, in your further work. mr maňka has done a really good job on administrative expenditure and we are now seeing very populist politicians going out and saying that we should not give eu employees the pay rises to which they are actually entitled. in my group we do not support breaching existing agreements. if you're not happy with the system, you have to change the system! we cannot simply be dissatisfied with the result that comes out of the system that has been adopted. and i think there is good reason to look at the conditions of the eu employees and first of all to see whether the rules we have for the employees of the eu system also provide the managerial opportunities we need to have an effective implementation of eu policy. it's been a few years since the kinnock reform. it has been five years since the enlargement. now it's time to go over things one more time. just a call to you, mr. semeta.
