madam president, i shall refer to the breyer report. i have to say that european farmers are fully aware that when using plant protection products particular attention must be paid to human health and also to the protection of the environment. however, the sector is deeply concerned that the european parliament does not understand the impact this regulation may have in the future. the fact is that there are assessments of its potential impact which indicate that, due to the future scarcity of plant protection products, it will be very difficult to control pests and diseases affecting the cultivation of a large number of foodstuffs, in particular all mediterranean products, and also the cultivation of ornamental plants and cut flowers. i am fully aware that the agreement reached in the tripartite dialogue was the result of arduous negotiation and i can therefore only acknowledge the work done by the rapporteurs. but it must be borne in mind that the temporary definition of endocrine disruptors will lead to the disappearance of a large number of active substances, especially insecticides, of key importance for agriculture. producers need to have at their disposal a sufficient quantity of active substances to effectively and safely combat any plant disease or pest, bearing in mind that often the danger is not in the product itself but in the misuse of the product. the spanish delegation of the epp-ed group therefore supports the proposals calling for an impact assessment and will vote in favour of mr sturdy's amendments, which i myself have signed, on endocrine disruptors and those favouring the availability of plant protection products in case of emergency. moreover, if this regulation is adopted under the terms of the agreement reached, the effects will be a reduction in food production and a rise in prices which will lead us to import the same foodstuffs which we do not produce but which are treated with the products we are banning.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i will try to be brief and i will of course begin by sending my warmest regards to commissioner kroes, wishing her well from this fall. here, at least, we have put a lot of salt on the door of the building, but i see that, in other places, there was not enough salt. the debate we are having is extremely important and therefore, in the end, the fundamental reason for it is to demand, to ask the commission to involve parliament. that is the purpose of this debate; it is not to close it here, but to make it clear that before the commission's communication is formalised, we can really count on a debate here and that we can all get involved. why would you do that? because what is at stake here is not just our television model; much more is at stake, because television, as we all know - and as we learned very well while we were debating the audiovisual services directive - is not what we used to know it to be, but is in fact a content producer, which delivers through a linear or nonlinear platform; everything is perfectly interacting on one side and on the other. the debate on the public service broadcasting can therefore no longer be held as if it were being held in the 1980s or the 1970s. on the other hand, it is obvious that a debate must take place, that not everything that is covered with the label of public service today is public service and that not everything that is done with public money has the slightest sense that it is being done with public money in some television stations, but at the same time - and that is the focus of our concern, i believe, and i understand that also from some of my colleagues in the house - public television stations have an immense importance for protecting our cultural diversity and our linguistic diversity, and, in the end, for bringing our societies together, because they are supposed to be looking for something more than profit directly. that financial balance must therefore be protected. we must look for new funding models, we must be creative and open up this debate, but we cannot do so in a way that puts at risk something that is tremendously important to our societies, such as the current public television.
mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i also join mrs kroes in her wish for a speedy recovery. i would like to make some general comments on the revision of the broadcasting communication. first of all, i would like to say that i welcome this review initiated by the commission, since it will make it possible to adapt the content of the 2001 communication to changes both in the technological field and in the community system itself. it also maintains the essential elements of the 2001 communication, which recognises the essential role of public service broadcasting in ensuring democratic quality and pluralism. i am basically referring to the principles of the definition and delimitation by the states of the scope and content of the public service missions assumed by the corresponding public entities, as well as the freedom to choose the financing model, avoiding distortions of free competition. it is also worth noting that the fulfilment of this task is entrusted to a specific body or corporation by means of a formal decision and that there is external and independent supervision of this task, and here i emphasize the central role of the audiovisual regulatory authorities. as regards the most important new features of the proposal, i welcome ex ante controls on the provision of new services by public service broadcasters, provided that sufficient flexibility is maintained to allow them to be adapted to the institutional model of each state and to be gradually adopted. finally, i think that the possibility that certain services included in the public audiovisual service may be the subject of remuneration or financial consideration by the citizens who enjoy them should be examined with particular caution, given the free and universal nature of the public audiovisual service traditionally provided and the risks of exclusion that could be triggered if this type of financing were accepted. i hope the commission will take these comments into account.
the rapporteur, mr president, the directive to which the report refers is an amendment to a 1978 directive on the same subject, drawn up in the light of the treaty of amsterdam, the case law developed by the court of justice of the european communities and new social realities; an amendment incorporating key elements in the advancement of women's rights, which are the ones assessed in this report. the legal text introduces the definition of direct and indirect discrimination, harassment and sexual harassment, requires member states to encourage employers to take measures to prevent all forms of discrimination on grounds of sex and safeguards employment rights after maternity or paternity leave. in implementing this directive, member states, in addition to committing themselves to the creation of equality bodies with functions of promotion, analysis, implementation and support of equal treatment, undertake to implement social dialogue, with the aim of promoting equal treatment in the world of work through collective agreements and in a planned manner. they also undertake to strengthen the role of ngos in promoting equality, to establish effective sanctioning measures for those who do not comply with the provisions of the directive and to implement protection measures for those who provide support to victims. if the commission had been able to draw up the report which, according to the directive itself, is required every four years, our evaluation work would have been relatively simple. to do so, all member states would have to have transposed the directive within the deadline, done so correctly and sent all the information to the commission. but this was not the situation we started from. at the end of the transposition period, nine member states had not notified the measures taken to transpose the directive; the commission had opened infringement proceedings against them and, as of may last year, proceedings were still open against two member states. in addition, due to the complexity and novel aspects of the directive, the commission had identified transposition problems in 22 member states, although it hoped to resolve many of them through dialogue. in order to produce a report that was as rigorous, useful and as complete as possible, we needed more data, so we decided to ask the member states for information as well. with the information provided by the commission, the information received from the member states - through the equality bodies and the national parliaments - and with the input of my colleagues from the various groups, we have been able to draw up this report, which already gives a clear picture of how the transposition process is developing in each of the member states. i would like to point out that, in the light of experience, cooperation between the national parliaments and the european parliament has been essential to our success. without the information provided by the parliaments and equality bodies we would not have been able to produce this report, at least not with the depth with which we have done so; nor would it have been possible without the fluid collaboration we have been able to establish with the commission and the invaluable help of the services of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, my office and the services of my parliamentary group. to all of them - because they are women - i want to thank you. i would also like to thank the speakers for their contributions and their willingness to do so. our aim from the outset was to ensure that our work was not only rigorous and useful but also the result of maximum consensus, since it was a question of getting a good picture of the situation regarding the transposition of a very important directive, which provides the european union with very effective tools for the member states to strengthen their legislation on equal treatment in the field of employment, something which is fundamental to achieving the objectives we have set ourselves as europeans. let us not forget that there is still a 28.4 percentage point difference between the employment rate of men and women in the european union today, that we are still far from the lisbon target of 60% female employment by 2010 and that women are paid on average 15% less than men. if this report also serves to raise awareness in the member states on this matter, we can be doubly pleased.
the following is the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2252/2004 on standards for security measures and biometric data in passports and travel documents issued by member states (com (2007) 0619 c6-0359/2007 2007/0216 (cod)) (a6-0500/2008).
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i think that the whole house has paid tribute to mr coelho's work and his qualities, and i join mrs roure in her tribute. i would like to say, in the words of mr deprez, that we must try to move towards more and more reliable, more and more comparable biometric data, which will enable us - and this is why we are holding this meeting - to make even better use of the most sophisticated technologies to ensure security in this area of freedom in which we find ourselves. i am therefore pleased to see that parliament is also committed to this effort to make the identification of children more secure, which is indeed necessary for their safety. i was asked if we already have evidence of the effectiveness of these processes. i would say that only the use of the system will enable us to verify its effectiveness, but, a priori, everything suggests that better identification of children travelling alone will bring more safety. in any case, we cannot ignore this major objective. i shall give parliament some answers to some questions. first of all, i should like to say that the commission has always placed the emphasis on data protection in its proposals. the european data protection supervisor was consulted on the basic proposal and made comments which were taken into account by the commission. i would also like to point out that our standards for identification have been harmonized with those of the international civil aviation organization (icao), which will, as has been said, facilitate dialogue with the united states. secondly, i would like to point out that, in the case of passports for children, there is obviously a financial burden for families, but this is a matter for the member states and i would like to point out that, in order to travel within the schengen area, an identity card is sufficient. the passport is required only for travel outside the european union. finally, i would like to confirm that the commission will make a comparative study of the rules in the member states on the travel of unaccompanied minors. we will propose to the council in due course that it take the necessary measures to protect children more effectively and to prevent trafficking in children. it is clear that this study is quite rightly wanted by parliament and i am naturally committed to ensuring that my services carry it out under the best possible conditions and within the shortest possible time. that is what i wanted to say, thanking parliament again for once again demonstrating its very constructive contribution to european legislation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by marco cappato, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents (application of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001) (a6-0459/2008).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish to begin by thanking you for a very well-written and interesting report, and i congratulate the rapporteur. this is an important and cherished subject, particularly in times of the revision of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 and also bearing in mind the changes that the treaty of lisbon – if it enters into force – will bring about on these important issues. this report is in principle about the implementation of regulation 1049/2001 and, therefore, let me start by recalling one of the positive elements in the implementation of the regulation because, as the quantitative data show and as the parliament report acknowledges, the eu institutions have granted access to a higher number of documents while registering a decrease in the number and rate of refusals. we are committed to continuing to enhance transparency and openness. quite naturally, some of the recommendations made in the report go well beyond the application of regulation 1049/2001 in 2006 and some are not directly related to the activities of the commission, as we have just heard. the report addresses a number of issues concerning openness and communication with citizens, and i particularly welcome that as a valuable input for a general reflection on transparency, communication and outreach. let me just briefly go through some of the recommendations and the principles underpinning them, because they deserve due consideration. on the turco case, i can assure you that the commission takes this judgment fully into account. as has been said, it mainly concerns the need for increased openness where the council acts in its legislative capacity, but it is also applicable to the commission and all the institutions, and the commission makes sure that each request for access is carefully assessed on a case-by-case basis against the parameters set by the court of justice. secondly, the proposal to lay down common rules on administrative procedures requires more reflection because many of these procedures are very specific in nature and unique, in some cases, for every institution. this means that we will need some more time to see how that could be done. the recommendation to merge regulation 1049/2001 and regulation (eec, euratom) no 354/83 on the opening of the historical archives is quite complex for a particular reason, because article 255 of the ec treaty and regulation 1049/2001 do not apply to all institutions and bodies. this might also change if and when the lisbon treaty enters into force, because it will then extend the right of access to documents to all institutions and bodies. this is why it is not so easy to simply merge the two, because the coverage is different. on the ombudsman’s critical remark regarding the commission’s public registers, i would like to assure you that we take this remark very seriously. as you know, we have a public register of documents that has been up and running since june 2002 and since then the commission has also put in place a dedicated register for comitology procedures and a register on expert groups. we are always doing our utmost to modernise our internal it systems. this, unfortunately, will not happen overnight, but has to be worked on. we always take into account the need to increase the coverage of the public register, and i hope you also know my personal commitment to this. we acknowledge that we still have to increase the coverage of our public registers and we confirm our commitment to develop the public registers in the interests of enhanced transparency. in the resolution you target the questions of document management and a common portal and the trans-jai project. the commission supports the idea of setting up a common portal in order to facilitate access for citizens to legislative documents. i think this would entail a common methodology, and we have to look at all the practical consequences of that on document identification and references. we would like to see a portal that could entail the full availability of public documents for each institution, so we are willing to work together with you on that. on the trans-jai project, i come back to what i said in a reply in october, that this is expected to be open to the general public by 2010. let me also comment on the issue of exchange of information between the institutions. i understand what is meant there and what you are after, but i wish to remind you that between our institutions we already have an established working method with the exchange of confidential information held by the commission and this is regulated in an annex to the framework agreement. we should also keep in mind that the question of sharing information between institutions is not related to public access and we think that this should be handled separately, as it is currently. this report and the debate is also a valuable and appreciated input for another time when we can discuss it on a broader scale. i am grateful for parliament’s efforts to keep the issue of transparency and openness high on the eu agenda. we will come back to many of these questions in the very near future, for instance during the joint meeting of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs with the czech parliament next week which i shall have the pleasure to attend, and then in just a couple of weeks we will be dealing with the important issue of revising regulation 1049/2001. i think the discussions should not end there. we need to be open about transparency and think also what we can do proactively outside the formal legislation, such as on improved registers, on greater user-friendliness and accessibility, active dissemination and quicker publication of documents. something that i myself did last year was to make the register of my own correspondence directly accessible on the web. i am sure that you all have similar ideas and examples of what can be done if we just put our minds to it. so let us do that.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, mr cappato, your report is full of goodwill and the most obvious proof is that it did not merit any amendments during its consideration by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. you yourself introduced 18 amendments to your own report. and it is these amendments which have given this report an extra layer of radicalism - let us say in general terms - which raises very serious doubts in my mind. i would divide the amendments you have tabled into four different strata, which you have tabled yourself - i insist - in a report which was supported by all the groups at the beginning. some impossible; you ask for some things that are impossible. for example, mr cappato, you are asking for things for which there is no legal basis yet: for example, until the treaty of lisbon comes into force, it will be impossible to harmonize the regulations of different committees. commissioner wallström has just said something similar to that; or you are asking, for example, that we declare 2009 the 'year of transparency' and we are late, there is no longer a deadline. so you're asking for things that are impossible. also, ask for some others that are inadvisable. for example, you ask for transparency in the meetings of the political groups. no, man, no. i mean, you know, privacy is needed; privacy is a political good. if i want to disagree with my party and maintain an opposition, i want to do it in private and that is not lack of transparency. transparency must be demanded in public bodies, but not in the heart of political parties, whose debates must be guaranteed in private. so i can't follow you into that. there are some other assessments you make, mr. cappato, that are uncertain. for example, you say: 90% of legislative activity is by comitology. that is a reckless exaggeration, mr. cappato. and, moreover, the rules of comitology themselves imply rules of transparency. if we are going to introduce more mechanisms, more bureaucracy and more controls, we are going against what we want to pursue, which is transparency, something that is very close to simplicity. finally, before the president calls my attention to it, because i am already wasting my time, there are some things that are unnecessary. for example, i understand that it is very cool and very attractive to public opinion to say 'transparency in the activity of members, that they know they are coming to the plenary'. you know, mr. cappato. or they go to the committees, you know; there is a record of all of them, they are records accessible to all citizens. or the allowances they charge, you know, mr. cappato. i mean, it's perfectly possible for a citizen to have access to that information. i understand that it is very difficult to appeal to public opinion and that it is very difficult to defend transparency, but i want you to know that transparency is making things appear as they are and when you contribute to making things not appear as they are, mr cappato, then you are not contributing to transparency. thank you for your generosity, mr. president.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i greet the czech presidency with the same friendliness with which, as president of the european parliament, i addressed the senate of what was then czechoslovakia in 1991 to invite it to join us, and i believe that this great generation of czechoslovaks of that time is embodied in a personality respected in europe and the world. i am referring to president václav havel. two thoughts and questions to the president. you have taken a decision - and i am glad you are talking about the europe of rules - to make ratification of the lisbon treaty conditional on ratification of the missile shield. many of us think that this is not the way forward, but you have decided to subordinate your own country to something that must be dealt with jointly. and let's not ignore the fact that the gas conflict is a political conflict. i find it very difficult for you to make a policy towards the east in this situation. i also do not understand why, as a people proud of its sovereignty and independence, you subordinate the decisions of the czechs to the decisions of the irish. secondly, mr president-in-office of the council, you have not spoken about the euro. we celebrated here yesterday the 10th anniversary of the euro and the entry of its sister republic, slovakia, into the euro. what will you do to defend the euro under the czech presidency?
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, thank you very much for giving me the floor in this timely debate on the dramatic situation in the middle east. since the start of israel’s military campaign in the gaza strip on 27 december, we have witnessed a steep deterioration of the situation on all levels. the humanitarian consequences of this operation are dramatic for the population in gaza. since the start of the operation, over 900 palestinians have died, of whom roughly 30% were women and children. we are profoundly disturbed by the loss of civilian life, and the matter has been repeatedly declared in our presidential statements. the european union deplores the ongoing hostilities which have led to such high numbers of civilian casualties, and we want to express our sincere condolences to the families of the victims. we are particularly concerned by such incidents as the attack on the united nations school in jebaliya and the firing on humanitarian convoys leading to the death of humanitarian staff. over 4 200 palestinians have been injured, according to the office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs. according to the united nations agency, an estimated 28 000 people have been displaced since the beginning of the hostilities. a large number of them are seeking refuge in the shelters; the rest of the internally displaced people are staying with relatives. the greatest humanitarian needs are related to the large number of wounded and the overwhelmed health services, whereas displaced people and host families need specific assistance such as food, shelter, water and non-food items. since the water system was badly damaged and needs urgent repair, the gaza population has hardly any access to safe water. therefore, providing drinking water is of the utmost necessity. there are also extensive food shortages at all levels of the population. since 4 november last year, foreign ngos’ personnel have not been allowed access to gaza to deliver and monitor humanitarian aid properly. also, the number of trucks entering gaza has increased since military operations started. the current daily average of 55 trucks remains pitifully insufficient compared to a need for at least 300 trucks daily to cover the needs of the 80% of the population which has become aid-dependent. the european union has been closely following the tragic events from the outset. three days after the operation started, foreign ministers met in an extraordinary session in paris to discuss the situation. they agreed on the need for an immediate and permanent ceasefire and immediate humanitarian action in stepping up the peace process. the summit aimed mainly to assist in ending violence and alleviating the humanitarian crisis. the presidency led a diplomatic mission in the middle east. the eu ministerial troika visited the region on 4-6 january for meetings in egypt, in israel, with the palestinian authority, and in jordan. the high representative also visited syria, lebanon and turkey. the outlines of a solution to the crisis have started to emerge. first and foremost, there must be an unconditional halt to rocket attacks by hamas on israel and an end to israeli military action, to enable the sustained delivery of humanitarian aid and the restoration of public services and badly-needed medical treatment. the six-month ceasefire, which expired on 19 december, was far from perfect. israel suffered through periodic rocket fire and the knowledge that its foe was amassing greater firepower. gaza endured a really punishing economic blockade, totally undermining its economic development.in order to achieve a sustainable ceasefire, we have to look for a sensible compromise entailing an end to rocket launches and reopening of the crossings. a viable solution must address the tunnels across the borders, especially along the philadelphia route, to prevent the smuggling of weapons. it must also lead to the systematic and controlled opening of all border crossings to enable the gaza economy to develop. we believe that the deployment of international missions to monitor implementation of the ceasefire and to act as a liaison between the two sides could be helpful. in this regard, the european union is ready to return its observers to the rafah crossing and to extend the mandate of the european border mission in scope and content. we acknowledge that israel has agreed to a daily lull to allow desperately-needed food, fuel and medicine into gaza. however, only a full and immediate ceasefire would allow the delivery and distribution of the large quantities of humanitarian aid that gaza so desperately needs and for the resumption of basic services. israel must ensure the unhindered and safe access for humanitarian aid and other essential supplies, including food, medicines and fuel, to the palestinian civilian population of the gaza strip, as well as the safe passage of civilian persons and humanitarian personnel into and from the gaza strip. but even a durable and comprehensive solution in gaza will not be sufficient to install peace in the region. we need to address broader and more complicated challenges. we need a new and inclusive strategy that addresses the internal palestinian political situation, as well as a resumption of the peace talks which have been suspended due to the gaza crisis. palestinian reconciliation, and a government representative of the aspirations of the palestinian people, is more necessary than ever. we therefore support the mediation effort undertaken by egypt in accordance with the arab league’s resolutions of 26 november 2008. as pointed out in the conclusions of the gaerc in december 2008, the european union is prepared to support any stable palestinian government that pursues policies and measures reflecting the quartet’s principles. the european union stresses the need to achieve a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the middle east and calls for the resumption of palestinian-israeli negotiations and the resolving of all outstanding issues in the israeli-palestinian conflict, including all core issues. a durable and comprehensive solution will ultimately depend on real progress in the middle east peace process. urgent and great efforts by the parties will be needed to achieve a comprehensive peace, based on the vision of a region where two democratic states, israel and palestine, live side by side in peace, in secure and recognised borders. the latest outbreak of violence in the middle east might not only set back prospects of a peaceful settlement in the conflict between israel and palestine. the political damage the fighting is causing, both in terms of regional polarisation and radicalisation, and in the further discrediting of moderate forces, must not be neglected either. only a viable palestinian state will bring security to a region that has suffered for too long. this is especially in the interests of israel and its neighbours. therefore, urgent measures must immediately be taken to reverse the damage done by the military action in order to restore the possibility of an equitable negotiated outcome. (applause)
member of the commission. − mr president, i think we all would have hoped for a better start to 2009. unfortunately, we face a terrible and appalling conflict in gaza, which is now in its third week. it gives cause for immense concern. we discussed it yesterday at a meeting with the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on development and those members of the european parliament who had been in gaza at the weekend. the president-in-office of the council has already mentioned the terrible statistics of the dead and injured, which get worse every day. there is increasing evidence of victims suffering from extreme burns, and aid agencies report that the population is suffering from acute shortages of food, fuel and medicine, not to mention the destruction of houses and infrastructure. however, israel has also suffered losses and has faced hundreds of rockets being fired into its territory by hamas, targeting israeli civilians. war, unfortunately, always produces immense human suffering, and this war is no exception. therefore, beyond its immediate devastating impact, it pushes the prospect of peace much further away, undermines the arab peace initiative and could potentially have a very negative impact on the stability of the whole region. i should like to outline quickly the diplomatic activity that we have taken together to bring this conflict to an end, and then to look at the mid- and long-term challenges. we have been active from day one, which i think was important. we know that we are not the main player in the middle east, but we were, and are, an important player. therefore, in response to the outbreak of the crisis, the emergency meeting of the eu foreign ministers in paris on 30 december 2008 was very important in developing proposals from the outset – the paris declaration – for bringing this conflict to an end, which we then used in our delegation and visit to the middle east. here there are three elements. first and foremost, the paris declaration called for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire, including both an unconditional halt to rocket attacks by hamas on israel, but also an end to the israeli military action. we called for a ceasefire to be accompanied by a permanent and normal opening of all border crossings, as provided by the agreement on movement and access in 2005. we expressed willingness to re-dispatch the eu border assistance mission (bam) to rafah to enable its reopening, and we also indicated that we were willing to examine the possibility of extending assistance to other crossing points, provided that our security concerns were met. second, we stressed the urgent humanitarian needs, which we said had to be met. here we urged the immediate opening of the crossing points to enable pressing medical assistance, fuel and food to be delivered to the gaza strip, to enable humanitarian workers to gain access and for the injured to be evacuated. third, we reiterated our position that there is no military solution to this israeli-palestinian conflict, that the peace process is the only way forward and that efforts have to be stepped up as soon as we find a durable ceasefire. as you have heard, our mission was carried out in tandem with a visit by president sarkozy, who had planned to make a trip to syria and lebanon and who then decided to visit egypt and israel to reinforce these efforts, still on the basis of our declaration of 30 december 2008. france is currently chairing the security council, so it was an important initiative. we coordinated closely, including a joint meeting in ramallah, where president sarkozy outlined his ceasefire plan, for which we – the troika – had to some extent paved the way through our discussions with key stakeholders, particularly egypt and jerusalem. these efforts reinforced each other, sending a strong, united message from the european union, and the troika not only conveyed this eu institutional position but also manifested our presence. i think it was important that president sarkozy also went to syria and then mr solana accompanied him to syria and lebanon and also consulted with turkey. i think all of this was needed. i particularly stressed the humanitarian situation, as has already been said, and i called particularly for the opening of the crossings and also for the possibility of at least some hours of ceasefire to allow the work of the international organisations to be carried out. israel accepted some of these points, and, in the negotiations with the israeli government, i also secured the co-location of an echo official in the israeli defence force premises to coordinate the channelling of humanitarian aid with the israeli armed forces, as had been done in the war in lebanon, and that was a powerful tool for better coordination. i would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to all the courageous colleagues still working in gaza, to those from unwra and icrc, with whom we are working and who receive a lot of our funding, but also to many others. (applause)i would also like to offer my sincere condolences to the families of those workers who have already been victims of this tragic episode. the commission has been spending quite a lot also on immediate humanitarian funds and we are ready to do more in the future. what have these negotiations achieved? as the president-in-office has said, they contained the major elements for the latest security council resolution, which then, a few days after the negotiations, was adopted with the abstention of the americans. an immediate ceasefire, egyptian guarantees to stop smuggling through the tunnels, opening of the crossings for humanitarian aid, including deployment of a force – possibly with international participation and/or the palestinian authority’s security forces – policing the 15-km-long philadelphia corridor between gaza and egypt. we understand that the palestinian authority has accepted this proposal and now israel and hamas are studying it. we think it is very important that very soon something works. my latest information is that everybody is working very closely on it and maybe in a few days we will really have such a ceasefire. i hope that this will be the case. on mid-term perspectives, sadly both israel and hamas have initially rejected this un security council resolution, but from these daily contacts i hope that an agreement can be achieved quite soon. it is important to say and recognise that egypt has been playing a leading role in direct contacts with hamas, and also that in this regard president sarkozy’s visit to syria, as well as the turkish efforts, have been very important. i also understand that the summit of the arab countries could take place in qatar at the end of this week. we aim, as this intense diplomatic activity shows, to support all relevant actors who have the leverage with hamas to help deliver a sustainable solution as set out in un security council resolution 1860. as soon as this ceasefire is agreed, we will have to think, probably in the form of a conference, how to formulate more concrete measures to alleviate the humanitarian needs of the palestinian population in gaza. however, we have to be clear in saying that whatever we do, it must not contribute to an endless cycle of destruction and reconstruction with no peace. under the right conditions i might come back to you and seek your help to contribute in a meaningful way to constructive efforts, as i have done in the past. you know that secretary-general ban ki-moon is touring the region and hopefully he too can contribute to this final success that is absolutely necessary to getting this lasting ceasefire. as a long-term perspective, we have to say that the current offensive clearly contributes to a weakening of trust between palestinians and israelis. military operations can never bring a lasting peace; only a negotiated political agreement can do this. dialogue should therefore resume both between israelis and palestinians and among palestinians. once hostilities have stopped, i think it will be important to resume talks aimed at a comprehensive peace as soon as possible. here we have to work with the new us administration to ensure it is able to support bilateral negotiations from the beginning. in this regard i welcome secretary of state-designate hillary clinton’s commitments at her senate hearing yesterday. we will insist that parties negotiate on substance, and not just on process, and that the anapolis process comes to a successful conclusion. this crisis shows that a successful conclusion is more urgent than ever. the question of palestinian reconciliation will also be central. it is unlikely that hamas will be eradicated by this operation. possibly it will come out debilitated militarily, but strengthened politically. hamas’s position that president abbas’s term will end on 9 january is another issue which is closely linked to the reform of the plo and of fatah. to achieve lasting peace it is clear that a strong palestinian authority needs to speak for all palestinians and that it needs to be committed to a two-state solution through peaceful means. the conflict in gaza also, unfortunately, has potential negative repercussions in terms of regional support for the peace process. israel’s image with several pro-peace arab regimes has been dented by the excessive suffering of the gaza civilian population. israel’s leaders and the israeli population should understand how negative this is for their aspirations as a people to live in peace. we are their friends and must tell them that we are doing this. israel therefore cannot afford to waste any time in reaching peace. this is my first short, or not so short, analysis, and we will have to try to work in order to get this durable ceasefire in order then to be able to go on and get peace negotiations under way with a new american administration.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, 17 days of fighting in gaza have simply left a dismal balance sheet. the most serious, though irreparable, is the loss of human life: innocent civilians, children; destruction, chaos, hatred, revenge; the divided palestinian cause; the strengthening of the radicals against the moderates and a peace process completely derailed. because, mr president, as the representative of the president-in-office pointed out, you can win all the battles of a war, but you can lose the most important battle, the battle of peace. mr president, apart from the division of responsibility or blame between one or the other or both sides, the most important thing - as the commissioner has just said - is to achieve an immediate ceasefire, as required by un resolution 1860, which, as the secretary-general has just reminded us, is binding on both sides. mr president, we must also alleviate the terrible humanitarian and economic situation in the gaza strip, which is ruled - i say in quotes - by hamas, an organization which is on the european union's list of terrorist organizations and which we must remember is not only one of the causes of the conflict but also a consequence of terrible circumstances. my group, mr president, supports and wishes to acknowledge the efforts of all the political groups in this house in support of the resolution we are going to adopt tomorrow and to pay tribute to the members who have been present in the negotiations, and in particular to the representative of my group, mr brok, who had a very difficult task. my group supports the efforts of the commission and the council, mr president, to work with the arab countries, egypt in particular, and the other members of the quartet, to achieve a ceasefire as soon as possible. and, mr president, we are very hopeful about the statement made yesterday by the secretary of state-designate, hillary clinton, before the foreign affairs committee of the united states senate, in the sense of offering pragmatic, dialogue-based and effective diplomacy. finally, mr president, the most important thing: the european union is a union of values and at the top of those values is the value of peace. i believe, mr president, that the european union must mobilize all its efforts and put all its political weight behind this cause, and yes, mr president, without allowing our minds to be confused and our hearts to be hardened in the face of such a conflict. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i was in gaza a few days ago and we had a very strong experience. we've been to egypt, too. and i see that we are at the end of an era; an era is ending, which is the bush era, and the last bush crackdowns are especially painful and bloody. we are at a tipping point towards another policy in relation to the middle east, which i want the european union to lead; a policy that includes the example of obama, who says he's going to talk to iran. yes, obama is going to talk to iran and we will have to talk to everyone, including hamas, in the middle east. this is a new policy in the middle east which must be a condition for cooperation policy. the cooperation policy must at least follow our values; it must at least follow international law. the hundreds of children we saw in gaza, who were holding our arms and looking at us with eyes full of hope, deserve an answer, as do the children in israel. this means concrete action; this means action on the ground, to give hope to the moderates. the most regrettable thing is that today fayad, abbas, mubarak and abdullah are being accused of treason in the streets of the arab world. when i stopped my taxi in the sinai desert for coffee, on some huge screens we only saw khaled mechal. that's the result, the collateral damage of this attack on gaza. it will not bring israel the peace and security we want, much less bring us any good. if we do not stop him, this apology for the catastrophe will bring us hatred on the streets of europe itself.
mr president, we spanish socialists live the situation in gaza with horror, pain and shame, but also with the commitment to defend peace and those who suffer most and to maintain dignity and hope. horror at the repeated sight of children killed and women torn apart in their endless suffering after the bombing of the ghetto that gaza has become. the same horror that picasso painted in his guernica our guernica razed by the junkers of the condor legion seven decades ago. solidarity with so many victims of so much suffering. and shame on the inability of all of us - our states, the european union and the international community - to prevent and then put an end to the criminal aggression we denounce. shame and indignation at so much lying, so much ambiguity and so much talk. it is a shame, because we know exactly what is happening and we do not act with the necessary and required force and consistency. for this reason, history will hold many accountable as accomplices to the crime, at least by omission. because it is better late than never and because it is essential to keep a door of hope open, the european union must support the late security council resolution, but we must ensure that it is implemented to the hilt, just as we must ensure that our association treaty with israel, which provides for its suspension in the face of behaviour such as that which is taking place, is implemented to the hilt. by the way, is hamas also responsible for the media blockade that i have not heard anyone denounce so far?
mr president, we must say to israel, with clear and forceful words, that it must stop killing and allow the wounded to be healed and the victims to be fed, and that its attitude against international law must have consequences for its relations with europe. i would like to greet the few young european cooperators who are suffering alongside the people of gaza, in particular alberto arce. they represent the best of the values of solidarity and freedom of our europe, which must be consistent in this terrible conflict.
that is still on the agenda.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will be brief because it was a very long debate. let me say first of all, as a member of the middle east quartet for four years now, the european union has a role to play, but of course we do not have the strongest role to play. that is sometimes frustrating for all of us, particularly in such a difficult moment when you would like to immediately achieve a durable and sustainable ceasefire as we have proposed, but when it can, unfortunately, not be achieved so quickly. i would like to give you, at least tentatively, the latest information that i got now, which is in the news, saying that sources in egypt close to negotiations report that hamas is reacting favourably to the latest egyptian proposals. there is movement in any case. i am not yet sure whether this is really confirmed, but there will also be a hamas press conference in the evening at 20.00. hopefully things will go forward. at least, this is what we all want. second, despite all the frustrations, we have no other possibility than to go on working for peace. this is what we will do. i am committed to that as long as i am a member of this middle east quartet. we can only achieve it together and we also have to help and enhance palestinian reconciliation efforts, because only then will it be possible to totally avoid the anomaly of gaza. third, as soon as there is a ceasefire we will try to do everything to totally restore the basic services to the population that have been so badly disrupted. i think, most importantly, what is necessary now is to put an end to this destruction and to go for reconstruction and try to come to peace. we have talked at length about this, so i will not extend myself, but this is my spirit and i hope there is a good moment.
the debate is closed with a motion for a resolution (see minutes) in accordance with rule 103 (2). the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the supply of gas to ukraine and the european union by the russian federation.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the horn of africa is indeed a dustbin today, not only because of the total instability in somalia and sudan, but also in the three countries that kaczmarek, hutchinson and i had the pleasure of visiting. as i said, the three countries to which the delegation was limited - eritrea, djibouti and ethiopia - have in common poverty and, of course, a very low human rights standard. as regards poverty, it should be noted that, according to the information given to us by the delegation, the ethiopian government acknowledged that six and a half million people were already suffering from hunger; the united nations put the figure at more than 12. so we are facing a humanitarian crisis that is not in the news because of other international crises that are happening, but it is really scary. the human rights situation, with the existence of political prisoners, and we must say so, political prisoners, in the three countries, must also be considered. the border conflict between eritrea and ethiopia is absolutely absurd; the existence of over 200,000 soldiers in that conflict is absurd. i do not want to end my speech without congratulating mr michel, member of the european commission, on his action in the region, on the initiation of a political dialogue, a political dialogue which must of course be maintained, but it must also be clear that we must be very firm. firm in defending human rights, firm in the face of the excesses they are making with the passing of laws in relation to ngos. it is important to note that this political dialogue has given the european union a high international reputation.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr mep, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the honourable member that the way we treat animals, including farm animals, is both an ethical issue and undoubtedly a question of civilization. the commission is aware that the transport of animals for commercial purposes can cause serious suffering to animals. such suffering is particularly pronounced in the case of so-called low-value animals such as slaughter animals. the enforcement of long-distance transport legislation is not satisfactory. in recent months, the commission has received reports of cases of animal cruelty. the commission continues to support the best available options to improve the situation. the ultimate objective is to improve the enforcement of european union legislation and thus to improve animal health and welfare of the animals concerned. a study carried out by the joint research centre concluded that new and more efficient control systems, such as the tracking of transport by satellite positioning systems, could contribute to improving the situation and allow for more transparent implementation of the rules. the use of these new technologies would also contribute to reducing the administrative burden on national authorities and bodies. the commission is also considering the possibility of proposing, before the end of this mandate, new standards based on the results of scientific research on transport duration, the number of animals loaded and the number of animals loaded in vehicles. the commission assesses the implementation of european union legislation on the basis of reports provided by member states in accordance with the existing eu regulation. the information contained in those reports shall be combined with the results of on-the-spot checks carried out in the member states by veterinary experts. the results of these checks carried out by the commission experts are published on the commission's website. data are also considered in the context of reports issued by international non-governmental organisations active in this field. the vast majority of member states have already submitted to the commission their animal transport reports for 2007. by the end of 2008, cyprus, lithuania, malta, bulgaria and luxembourg had not yet submitted their reports. the commission has drawn their attention to this obligation and will continue to monitor the situation closely. however, regulation (ec) no 1/2005 does not require the commission to draw up a report on the enforcement of the regulation in the member states. the commission agrees that enforceability is a key aspect of any proposed legislation. consequently, the commission would take account of the analysis of member states' reports for possible future revisions of community legislation in this area.
on behalf of the pse group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the problems of the animals, but that we should be concerned about the problems of the animals themselves. i would like to refer to two specific points, commissioner. the first is that i still see the commission's difficulties in analysing the situation throughout the community as a whole. although under the current regulation member states are required, as we have seen, to submit a report each year on the inspections carried out in the previous year, the regulation does not require a minimum number of inspections to be carried out, nor does it appear to be uniform as regards the statistical basis. these issues prevent the data provided by the different countries from being comparable. i understand, commissioner, that for the sake of everyone this situation should be corrected as soon as possible. but there is a second concern. you yourself, in your speech, have just described animals being transported to slaughter as being of low value. i am not at all in agreement with you, mr commissioner; i personally consider them to be of high economic value and i am sure the industry agrees with me that for this to be the case, for this meat to have a high economic value, the right conditions of transport are indispensable, whatever the final destination - even if it is the slaughterhouse - and the distance travelled. in other words, it is a major - the main - concern that these animals are transported under favourable conditions. i therefore ask you to take these considerations into account in the proposal for amending the regulation on which the commission is working. we know that, in addition to new technologies, the reform will address changes in the maximum duration of journeys - as we have discussed here - and the maximum and minimum temperatures for animal transport. i would ask you again, commissioner, and i would ask the commission, before changing such fundamental aspects, to seek and find a sound scientific basis on which to base the changes it proposes. i would also ask that, as long as we do not have a solid scientific basis, which we do not have for some of the issues at present, we should refrain from introducing, surreptitiously, in reports which have nothing to do with transport - and i am talking about the protection of animals at the time of slaughter, a report on which we are working - proposals for amendments to the existing regulation. i believe that in matters of such importance and such importance, we all - the commission and parliament - must play our cards upside down.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, roman law, in its definition of an animal, stated that an animal is a thing. i remember one military regulation that stated that a wagon could carry eight horses or 48 men. that means that over the course of civilization, people have begun to think that there is a certain greater closeness between an animal and a human being than there is between a human being and things. i think that as civilization has evolved, we have come to believe that an animal is not a thing, that it is an existing being with immanent rights, and we have expressed this view in our regulations. i think it is fair to say that the european rules are being formulated at this point and are an undeniable advance in civilization. on the other hand, the debate has clearly shown that they are not applied consistently and that their design can be seen as a reason for further improvement. the commission agrees with these general findings and will also seek to improve the system of application of control and monitoring of the situation in its work. we are also in the process of drawing up new regulations which try to take account of the latest scientific knowledge from a wide range of fields, because what was also very clear from this discussion is the complexity of this problem. it's not a simple thing, it's not enough to say well, one or two measures are taken and the matter is resolved. i also think that it was clear from the debate that the concept of the protection of farm animals and animals in general is a concept that is not based on a purely practical point of view of consumer protection. that we would go for certain protective things even if it didn't have any real meaning to the consumer, no real benefit, because it's just a very ethical thing. let me try to answer some specific questions. a number of questions have been put and we are, of course, prepared to answer in more detail to the individual members the questions i shall not touch on. one of the questions was which countries did not send their reports, and i said so in my opening speech, but because this is a very important matter, i note that it was cyprus, lithuania, malta, bulgaria and luxembourg. so ireland was not involved in this issue, ireland fulfilled its obligation. the debate also raised questions about the way in which information is accessed. i would point out that it is theoretically possible to publish individual national reports, although the regulation allows a member state to make a reservation of confidentiality, but no member state has done so. so if there is a requirement to publish the report, the commission asks the member state whether it wants to apply this reservation of confidentiality, which i do not expect it to do, and then the report can be published in full, and i think that can be a great stimulus for further discussion. the annual reports are analysed by the commission, by commission experts, and at the same time are supplemented by the knowledge acquired by commission officials on the ground, thus providing a basic basis for further verification of the fulfilment of the conditions of the regulation and for further consideration of the development of the legal and organisational system of the european union in this field. as regards the question of the next proposal for a directive to amend the legal system, i have already stated that the commission is working on such proposals and is trying to apply the most up-to-date scientific knowledge. the question was asked how many infringement procedures are currently in progress, there are two infringement procedures currently in progress, there are two, three complaints that are linked to andalusia, that is spain, and a total of six member states were inspected in 2008. so this is more specific data on the questions that were asked. so, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you once again for a debate which was complex, which made it very clear that the commission's position and parliament's views are very close, and which i believe is a good sign for further progress in this extremely sensitive area.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the oral question to the commission by mr parish, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the mediterranean diet, which, by the way, the president of this house follows reasonably rigorously and with more than acceptable results.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by stressing the importance of a healthy diet for preventing disease. as members of the european parliament you are aware that the white paper 'a strategy for europe on nutrition, overweight and obesity-related health problems', adopted by the european commission on 30 may 2007, brings together all the community policies that can contribute to improving eating habits and preventing obesity. these are in particular measures in the fields of public health, nutrition, transport, regional policy, sport, education, statistics and agricultural policy. one of the best examples is the commission's initiative of a pan-european school fruit and vegetable scheme. the goal of this program is to help us facilitate a healthier start to life for our children. it will start at the beginning of the 2009/2010 school year with an annual budget of eur 90 million for the purchase and supply of fresh fruit and vegetables to schools. as regards the specific question raised by one of the members of parliament, namely the request to include the mediterranean diet in the unesco world heritage list, commissioner kyprianou's predecessor, mr markos kyprianou, raised this issue at the agriculture council in july 2007. the commission welcomes this initiative as it can contribute to promoting healthy eating habits throughout the european union. however, the european commission does not have formal authority to support such a request within unesco, as it is not a member of unesco and therefore cannot participate in the decision-making process. i hope, however, that the participating states will succeed in their application to unesco and that they will receive the appropriate support from the other member states of the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the commission for its express support, once again, for the nomination of the mediterranean diet as a cultural heritage of humanity by unesco. after hearing the commissioner's answer, it is important to remember that we are dealing with a cultural asset and that the concept of diet is much broader than that of a food model. it is true, as my colleague mr parish has said, that the mediterranean diet, as a dietary model, plays a very important role in healthy lifestyle habits and even in the prevention of diseases linked to poor diet or lack of physical exercise. but the concept of the mediterranean diet - and in this sense my speech complements yours - goes further. it includes a characteristic way of life, a way of sharing food, of enjoying it in company, it is linked to a certain type of landscape and territory, and to societies that over the centuries have developed a culture, an art, traditions and festivities around this concept of the mediterranean diet. once we have clarified what, for me and for most people in this field, the mediterranean diet is and why this candidacy is being put forward, and have seen the willingness of the commission to cooperate, we consider - and i say this to you, commissioner - that although the commission is not a member of unesco - which we already knew - and does not participate in its decision-making processes - which we also knew - the commission can support this candidacy with indirect actions which would undoubtedly have a positive impact on the perception of those involved in the voting process. and i would mention, among these possibilities, a formal declaration of support by the european commission for the nomination submitted, because there are other international bodies such as the fao, the world health organization, the scientific and academic community, which have been making these declarations of support. in connection with the future management plan, we certainly understand that the commission should be involved, support or join the specific transnational actions that are proposed. we are in the year of intercultural dialogue and one of the states which is part of this candidacy is precisely our mediterranean neighbour, the kingdom of morocco. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission could also help to seek support and accession, it could carry out diplomatic work, taking into account the respect for the commission, especially in the mediterranean countries outside the community and also outside the mediterranean and the european union. and, of course, commissioner, the commission could show its readiness to organize or collaborate in possible actions that may emerge in the coming months in some of the areas of work.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, the commission, on the basis of the strategy set out in the white paper, supports all proposals and all practices that lead to healthy eating habits. the commission actively supports these initiatives, but it cannot support only a narrow line of dietary habits, given the considerable differences between member states and regions, as well as between, for example, mediterranean countries. this does not, however, in any way negate what i said in my opening remarks, namely that the commission supports the proposal to register the mediterranean diet as a cultural heritage of humanity. we are moving in this direction, and it is clear, of course, that even though we are not a member of unesco, there are certainly ways in which we can strengthen the position of this proposal. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to just one performance that i fundamentally disagree with. i see no reason to reconsider the location of the agency in finland. i have no doubt that the people in that place, who are gathered around the agency, are capable of fully and deeply defending and fulfilling the mandate that is given to the agency. i think this location was the right and justified decision.
i do not know whether there are any major differences between member states or groups, but in the debate we have had here, there was no difference of opinion; there was no difference of opinion, and from germany to poland, from the united kingdom to portugal, spain and cyprus, there was - i think - a very large unanimity in support for the initiative. thank you all so much. we're going to adjourn for a few minutes. we have been able to conclude the debate on time and, above all, with the necessary calm so that we can all hear each other, which is a good start to the year in our plenary. the sitting will resume at 12 noon for the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
in writing. - mr president, mr pöttering has been hasty in saying that there were no votes against. i voted against this resolution. while i admit that it contains very positive elements, especially the use of the term 'collective punishment' on the people of gaza, i consider it insufficient. the only practical thing this parliament can do is to ask for the association agreement with israel to be frozen; the rest are words, nice and positive, but only words. in politics, it is not enough to talk well, we must act and after this resolution, nothing will change in gaza. if we had been talking about any other state instead of israel, the resolution would have been much more forceful. i believe that israel has the right to live in peace, but not everything is worth it, and it should know that. moreover, this offensive will only serve to escalate the conflict. today is not a good day for this parliament because it has opted for words rather than action.
in writing. the joint resolution on gaza contains positive elements such as the call for an immediate ceasefire, the recognition of the 1000 dead at the hands of the israeli army, including children and women, and even the recognition that the embargo imposed by israel on gaza constitutes a violation of international humanitarian law. i have not been able to vote in favour of it, however, because the resolution places hamas on the same level of responsibility as israel. it does not recognise that it was the israeli army that broke the ceasefire on 4 november by carrying out a ground incursion and several air strikes, but instead holds hamas responsible for breaking the ceasefire. the resolution is clearly insufficient in that it does not call for strong action from the commission and the council. the eu should freeze the current eu-israel association agreement as it has violated article 2 thereof on the conditionality of the agreement on respect for human rights. similarly, the joint resolution does not demand the end of the israeli blockade of gaza, nor does it require the 27 eu member states to cancel all arms exports to the state of israel.
madam president, madam commissioner, as we have seen recently, the textile sector is suffering from a major crisis which has led to numerous closures of businesses, relocations and unemployment, which are concentrated precisely in regions specialised in this activity. in view of the current economic crisis, the european commission should act quickly alongside the member states to alleviate the socioeconomic effects of this restructuring, which is particularly dramatic for the territories and families affected. i think that we must help the workers in the textile and clothing sector with social measures, with plans for companies that are restructured and are currently in serious difficulty. it would be desirable to allocate a substantial part of the globalisation adjustment fund to the restructuring and upgrading of the textile sector and in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises, which make up the majority of the sector in the european union and suffer the most from the effects of market liberalisation. the system of control of imports from abroad, and especially from china, is to be reestablished. it is not at all about promoting trade barriers. the aim is to offset the negative effects of this major transformation, and we must not forget that the european union is the world's second largest exporter of textiles and clothing, which means that it is necessary to guarantee the best conditions of access to third country markets, which are essential for the future of the textile and clothing industry based in the european union and, in particular, for smes. all this, of course, while ensuring fair competition on the basis of the promotion of environmental and social standards in these countries. in this connection, the publication of correct information to the consumer, for example by means of the regulation on the indication 'made in' which, as far as we know, has not been implemented, would be very useful, since it would mean, among other things, that imported products would be subject to the same safety and consumer protection requirements as those manufactured within the european union.
mr president, i should like to speak about the need to merge the information technology revolution of the information society with the energy revolution, which has been the subject of an excellent resolution in this house. because we need smart electricity grids; the current ones are wasteful, the current ones are anachronistic. we need a consumption managed by production. we need to have smart grids and smart homes. an intelligent consumption that only the internet, which only a fusion of all electrical networks with the information coming from the houses, from the factories, from the buildings ... can provide. so we could be much more autonomous, we could be much more independent and so europe could lead this global need that there are not dozens and dozens of unnecessary thermal plants as there are today. in most countries we are producing three times as much energy as we consume, precisely because we are targeting production at 'peak' times of consumption. with smart grids, this would not happen; with smart grids we could direct consumption to sustainable production and to existing production. so we can also cooperate with the mediterranean countries, our mediterranean neighbours, who need a big clean, smart grid to connect our southern neighbours, who have access to solar energy that could be produced with high technology, with large plants. and this would be a great way to create cooperation on technology transparency. we could foster a clean future for all.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the recent developments between russia and ukraine in the gas sector have certainly made it clearer than ever that we need to diversify our supplies and improve interconnections between member states and with the producing countries. the commission's proposals are in this direction, but in the interests of greater efficiency these proposals should also include, and i am glad that the commissioner has mentioned it today, they should also include, i said, the capacity that the south of our continent and, in particular, my country, spain, can bring. spain is the member state with the most diversified supply both in number of countries, with gas coming from 10 different countries, and in format. my country is therefore an excellent supply platform for the european union. both by pipeline from algeria and by liquefied natural gas with a volume similar to that of nabucco, but at a lower cost and time. but it is a platform, ladies and gentlemen, which the european union cannot use at the moment because of the lack of a good interconnection with france. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. if the iberian peninsula is suffering from a clear energy isolation, islands such as the balearic islands, where i come from, suffer from the problems of double insularity, which is very unfair to those of us who live there and who, as europeans, have the same rights. i would ask you, commissioner, to take account of the particular characteristics of the island territories when you take decisions and set priorities. and finally, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her work.
mr president, sexual exploitation is a situation facing children and girls all over the world, with the supply of child sexual exploitation, especially in poor countries, and the demand for internet pornography and sex tourism from rich countries. with this recommendation we are calling for real steps to be taken, calling for european harmonisation on age of sexual consent, for a tougher penalisation of sexual abuse and for the strengthening and expansion of national intervention programmes and systems. we must therefore call the attention of the member states to the fact that, as spain has done, beyond the transposition of the council's framework decision on this matter, action plans are being developed and implemented with the participation of the trade union movement, including awareness-raising and social mobilisation programmes, without forgetting to work on the aspect of international cooperation. finally, i would like to join the call on the member states to sign, ratify and implement all relevant international conventions so that we can ensure that the rights of children are respected.
madam president, the best way to protect orderly immigration which is acceptable to our society - acceptable in economic terms, acceptable in social terms - is also to fight against illegal work. not to fight against illegal immigrants, because behind each one of them there is a drama, but to fight against the phenomenon of illegal immigration as the only way to justify and really organize an orderly immigration and, even more so, in the times we are living in. and that, of course, must be done not only in the demand for employment but in the supply. the fight against illegal immigration is not only carried out by police checks on the london and madrid subways, but also in the human resources offices of many companies which hire illegal workers to exploit them and deprive them of their rights. that is why we fully welcome this directive. a directive which sets out the obligations of employers and, indeed, the penalties to be imposed on employers who exploit workers without rights for their own benefit. it is a balanced directive. the rapporteur must be congratulated on having achieved a good compromise and a good balance in this area. i would like to highlight those articles that protect the rights of the worker who has been exploited. they're protecting him so he can expose the situation he's in. they protect him by guaranteeing that he can claim what was his, without that, of course, deriving a right to remain. but that work that was done illegally, without social security, without getting what it should have, obviously will be paid regardless of the employment status of that worker who was working without permission. the sanctions are certainly appropriate and proportionate. the commitment to subcontracting, to which the rapporteur has already referred in his speech, is very important in practice - and that is what we are talking about. and just one last remark: i think that the 24 months' deadline for the directive is excessive. i know it cannot be changed, but 24 months is too long, it should be shortened if possible.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr claudio fava, for his great work in reaching a common position with the council, which includes many of the improvements proposed by our house. with this directive we are once again demonstrating our commitment to the construction of a common migration policy based on a global approach. the approach of this directive is clear: to fight the mafia, to punish unscrupulous employers and to protect exploited immigrants who have no social protection whatsoever. we want to see an end to the unfair poverty wages for immigrants, which also distort average wages, especially in sectors such as construction, agriculture, domestic service and hospitality. these measures require great courage and political will, as there are many vested interests and a lot of money moving in the underground economy. it is precisely in difficult times that it is more important than ever to manage migration flows intelligently, generously but responsibly. it would be easy to fall into the temptation of not trying to tackle the underground economy. we cannot look the other way and leave some eight million illegal immigrants in a helpless position with working conditions that are close to slavery. ladies and gentlemen, if we want this directive to be effective, strict inspections and economic and even criminal sanctions are necessary in the most serious cases, which have a deterrent effect on employers. we will thus be able to reduce the burden of the underground economy and cut the incentive for immigration that generates the possibility of irregular work. it must be clear that the only way to work in europe is legally. we therefore want to continue with the overall approach and we ask the commission, commissioner, mr barrot, to present as soon as possible the new 'blue cards' for the other categories of employment.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
so it is clear, mr zaleski, that it exists.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the green group as an alternative to the záborská report because it deals better with the real problems which still persist in achieving real equality between men and women, the recognition of changes in the family model, the reconciliation of personal and professional life and the positive action measures which we socialists have always advocated. stereotypes cannot be perpetuated and economic problems cannot be solved by forcing women to stay at home to care for the elderly and children, as mrs záborská's text says, which presents women as 'potential mothers' who procreate and bring children into the world, educating them mainly in cooperation with the parents. i would also like to send a clear message to the czech presidency by my vote that, as it explains in its programme for this semester, it also aims to promote the image of women carers by encouraging many professionals to give up their careers to take care of their families. i have the impression that the czech presidency does not understand the full meaning of 'equality between women and men'. i hope in six months we'll be able to explain it to him.
mr president, i hope and wish that president obama's announcement about the closure of guantanamo bay will be the announcement of a change in american foreign policy. the abandonment of the one that returned terror with terror, the one that returned crime with crime, the one that, in short, blew up international law. i hope and wish that it is. the problem with the european union is that there have been many european states committed to the old bush policy, which responded to crime with crime, to torture with torture. and they have been complicit in that policy. and that's why the cia's flight investigation committee couldn't get to the bottom of it, because there were european governments hiding their shame, the shame of bush's policy. and for that, we must demand accountability. the american people have done it, through the ballot box. i also hope that obama will be brave and bring to justice those officials who have tortured, those officials who have been illegally detained, because, ladies and gentlemen, for the prisoners of guantanamo there is only one solution from the law. if there's evidence against any of them, let's put them on trial. if there's no evidence, you're free. and the responsibility for those people who have been unlawfully detained has to fall on the officials of the administration. that is what happens in my country, and it is what happens in any democratic country that is based fundamentally on democratic guarantees. thank you very much.
mr president, guantanamo is not a problem created by the european union. it is a problem which would certainly not exist if to so many statements of condemnation by the european union a genuine attitude of rejection had been added, and not a passive and sometimes active collaboration with the very existence of this black hole of international law. but it's obvious that we didn't create it. but we certainly have a responsibility to cooperate to put an end to this situation. a clear responsibility we should exercise. of course, we have to distinguish between cases. the guantanamo prisoners cannot be treated as if they were a herd of undefined sheep. they are people with their rights, but also with their own history. there are criminals who should be tried as such, there are innocents and there are people who are, without a doubt, potentially dangerous. the european union can, in keeping with its values and principles, but also in keeping with its generosity, get involved and adopt a common response that will help to solve this problem now, in accordance with our own rules.
mr president, the existence of guantanamo has indeed been made possible, among other reasons, by the connivance and complicity of many european countries, including spain. it is not worth now saying that this problem does not concern us. it is even less true to say that the closure of guantanamo and its consequences are a problem exclusively of the us government. for years, american secret service planes have been flying around europe with impunity, transporting prisoners, while we looked the other way. we must therefore take our responsibilities and not only demand immediate closure but also accept some of the prisoners who, unable to return to their country and unable to remain in the united states, are demanding that other countries, including european countries, be able to take them in. portugal has already committed itself to this, and i think that this is partly due to a certain feeling of responsibility and guilt. the situation in spain is at least as important and i therefore take this opportunity to appeal to the spanish government to take in, to commit itself, as portugal has done, to take in some of these people, as many organisations have asked us to do, which, i repeat, is not only a moral duty but also a political responsibility.
mr romeva, the spanish government will cooperate, as it has always done. i would remind you that the spanish foreign minister, miguel ángel moratinos, was the first to appear before the committee of inquiry and to answer all the questions, including yours. we have been denouncing in this house for some time the torture and inhuman and degrading treatment being perpetrated at the guantanamo military base in the name of the fight against international terrorism. we therefore applaud obama's decision to suspend the trials for four months and his goal of closing the prison permanently within a year. the european union cannot look the other way and must offer its cooperation to ensure that the detention centre is closed. we must also consider the possibility of accepting prisoners from countries where respect for human rights is not guaranteed if the united states so requests. we must then give a common european response, in which the spanish government will take part, respecting the international legal framework and analysing, on a case-by-case basis, the legal situation of each citizen, of each detainee - his origin and detention and his situation.
vice-president of the commission. − that is a huge question. i can only pass this question to my colleagues. we, together with parliament, are asking the member states whether this kind of money – this eur 5 billion – can be made available solely for energy efficiency. so far it has been a very heated debate in the council. there are some opportunities to support energy efficiency through the cohesion funds. but to establish some kind of new fund will probably create a lot of very long debates. i do not know how good an idea this is, because energy still does not fall within the mandate of the community – it is strictly a national matter. seeing what is happening with this eur 5 billion, i am not so enthusiastic about cooperation between the member states in establishing different financing instruments. the idea, of course, i can only support.
vice-president of the commission. − thank you for this opportunity to deal with the very interesting issue of our foreign policy on the andean community. region-to-region negotiations with the andean community entered an impasse last summer due to the andean community’s inability to agree on common negotiation positions in certain trade-related areas. these differences reflect to a certain extent the differing approaches of the various countries in the region on economic and trade policies. despite the efforts undertaken by some andean community countries to overcome this impasse, the commission could only note that a consensus on moving forward with negotiations no longer existed. under these circumstances, and without abandoning the medium-term objective of building an association between the andean community and the european union, the commission proposed to the council a new two-track negotiating format which was approved by the council on 19 january. first, and with the objective of preserving and strengthening relations between the european union and the andean community, the commission proposes to enrich and update the 2003 political dialogue and cooperation agreement. second, the commission proposes to negotiate the multiparty trade agreement outside the andean community framework with those countries that are ready and able to commit to ambitious, comprehensive and wto-compatible trade negotiations. all of them are invited, of course. taking into account the discrepancies among the andean community countries on the trade part of association agreements, the commission believes that the proposed approach is the best suited to permit us to move forward in a pragmatic and constructive way, while continuing to support the andean community and andean integration.
mr president, i agree with your observation that this is the most appropriate procedure. i have been in the republic of bolivia these last few days and have followed the events day by day. the specific question i want to ask you is this: when i was there the objection was raised that these agreements might be contrary to what the cartagena agreement is, the agreement on which the andean community is based, and that that agreement might require amendments. can the commission now tell me whether agreements can be reached without amending the basic text of the andean community?
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would like to thank mr tabajdi very much for his work in preparing and carrying out this oral question which we are debating here today, and for the tremendous work he has done in drafting the resolution which, unfortunately, we are not discussing but which i am convinced we will be able to discuss in the next partsession. a resolution which is necessary because it is obvious that we have to find a minimum standard of protection for minorities in the european union, something which does not exist at the moment. i do not share the view of commissioner barrot, who often takes refuge in the european union's lack of competence in this area. it is a clear contradiction to mention the copenhagen criteria, to mention other types of legislation and, at the same time, when perhaps we are not interested or perhaps we are not courageous enough, to hide behind the lack of competition in order not to 'say' to make progress in the protection of minorities because, in the end, we are faced with the eternal dilemma. we are not facing a problem, we are facing a challenge which the european union must tackle and which must be seen as such.
it is curious, mr president, that in every legislature we have pointed out the lack of legal and material protection for minorities of one sign or another in the member states. in this latest eastward enlargement, the reality has necessarily become much more complex. the europe of 27 has more than 100 groups, if we add its ethnic and linguistic minorities and those of immigration. the roma, an ethnic group which has lived with us for centuries, with its own characteristics and the greatest disadvantages compared to any other minority of any kind, deserve a special mention. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is not for nothing that the treaty of lisbon explicitly refers, for the first time in the history of the european union, to the rights of persons belonging to these minorities and to their own values. every social group is different. the linguistic and historical minorities of the member states and their recognized and unquestionable right to express themselves in their mother tongue have little or nothing in common with the new migratory flows with their own distinctive features. we are starting from the european charter for regional languages and we are asking the european social fund to devote attention and resources to minorities as well. we have just left the year 2008 as the european year of intercultural dialogue and i believe that this dialogue has only just begun. i believe that we should take advantage of the inertia and continue to disseminate this dialogue in order to create control mechanisms at european level with a view to protecting minorities. finally, it is our duty to protect and preserve in the member states the traditions and values of the emerging multicultural europe, and it is the duty of this house to establish rules of integration in a common european framework which will facilitate peaceful coexistence.
mr president, there are several cases in the eu of languages of historical european peoples which, because they are not constituted as states, are not allowed to be used in the debates of this parliament, and this is a representative democratic deficit. one of these cases is that of the basque language, euskara, which is not a minority language but an official one, at least in the southern part of the basque country, which is administratively part of the spanish state. but the same is not true - and do not take it personally, commissioner - of the northern basque country, which is part of the french state, whose president, before the united nations assembly, says that to refuse to respect national identities and languages is to feed humiliation and that without such respect there will be no peace in the world. and then neither basque nor corsican, breton or occitan have the slightest official recognition nor support to respect and promote their use. i therefore ask the fundamental rights agency to ensure that the rights of the mother tongues of no european people are violated or discriminated against within the member states and that all of them are considered official within their respective territories. (the speaker continues in basque) thank you very much for your help in helping the european language in the village.
the author. - mr president, there is a member country of the european union which uses the concept of 'non-citizens' to refer to hundreds of thousands of people living in its country. the vast majority are people born in that country, who work in that country and who, however, receive the epithet of 'non-citizens'. this is an aberration in the european union. that is an aberration, because the european union is based on the concept of non-discrimination, on a principle of equality, which is being condemned today in that country, which is not recognizing the rights of those people and subjecting a group to historical discrimination solely on the basis of their ethnic origin. it can't be. we have examined specific cases in the committee on petitions. the first case was that of a gentleman who came and said: "the first time i was able to vote was when i was studying in germany. i was able to vote in the german local elections, but i was not able to vote in my own country because i am not recognised. i have no other passport, i have no other country, only this country and i can't vote. that is an aberration. we have dealt with another case in the committee on petitions in which a man who passes the language tests in latvia, who knows all the laws, is presented, and yet he is not granted citizenship because the state, as the ambassador said to us, considers that 'that man is not loyal to the state'. how is that possible? how is this situation possible, which affects 20 or 25% of the population of a member state of the european union? we are asking for fundamental rights to be respected, we are asking for awareness of the situation - because some countries have joined the european union without meeting the copenhagen criteria - that pressure is being put on the commission, because so far the european commission has shown nothing but weakness, 'total pasotism' and indifference.
the author. - mr president, my group, the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left, did not hesitate to put this oral question to the commission when we heard, at various sessions of the committee on petitions, of the situation of many citizens in latvia. commissioners, commissioner, it is unacceptable that in the 21st century, in the european union, there should be cases of segregated citizens. this is not part of the european union, its principles or its values. in a state that has been part of the union since 2004, with a population of just two and a half million, there is now a law in force that simply prohibits half a million people from exercising their rights as citizens. they're called noncitizens. they have a black passport and that's why they call them niggers or eggplant. they are even given that appellation by the administration itself, by the state, by the government, and they are citizens who do not have the legitimate right that comes with being able to vote and being able to be voted. we therefore believe that the european commission must exert great pressure on the government to prevent it from failing to comply with the many recommendations made by various institutions such as the united nations human rights committee, the united nations committee on the elimination of racial discrimination, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, the congress of local and regional authorities of the council of europe, the commissioner for human rights of the council of europe, the very recommendation made by this parliament in the debate on the accession of latvia, the resolution of 11 march, which clearly stated that the problem of segregation, the problem of those citizens who are required to be recognised if they were born before 1940 had to be solved. it is simply unacceptable. i think it is intolerable. we cannot live with this reality in the european union and therefore we believe it is very important that the commission, that the authorities of the union, that we all make convergent proposals to avoid this reality. in this connection, our group expects the commission to make specific proposals in relation to the questions we have put in this debate. we are also concerned that new regulations require that 60% of the curriculum be in latvian, creating a very strong discrimination against the russian language. i think i remember that in my country, spain, at the time of franco's dictatorship, you couldn't speak basque, catalan or galician. those languages were simply banned. today it is a reality and they are co-official languages, they are protected, just like spanish. i believe that this is a reality which should also be enforced so that no citizen of the union is prevented from finally expressing himself in his mother tongue, in his language, co-official with any other language which may be used in that state. i therefore call on the commission to take decisive action once and for all to prevent the segregation that is taking place in that member state of the union.
mr president, as i have been told, i repeat myself in every word i have said.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank our colleague mr florenz for the work he has done, the chairman of the committee, of course, and all the coordinators and members of the committee. this report is yet another expression of the european union's longstanding concern about climate change and its consequences. the last set of measures was the recently adopted energy package and this report which we are discussing today is therefore part of that line of action to combat climate change and of the sensitivity shown by the european union. the report before us is a set of recommendations, as has already been said. it is a universe of different measures and recommendations, but which, in turn, have different 'roadmaps' - sectorally related to fisheries, agriculture, waters, forestry, etc. all these 'roadmaps' lead to the same horizon, but measures need to be developed across each of them. but i will stick to what i believe is the fundamental principle of being effective. the fact is that, in the face of climate change, there is nothing to be done but to improve efficiency and this must be the guiding principle, in my view, of all measures taken. improving through efficiency means giving priority to technological innovation; it means giving priority to efficiency objectives when granting aid and subsidies; it means giving priority to efficiency objectives when granting certain tax advantages, etc. etc. so the only solution for us to really be effective is to improve through efficiency.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr florenz for his generosity and broad-mindedness and all the groups who have really participated in a political exercise and in a debate on the future and the background, which has had the virtue of accompanying us, clarifying us and giving us the courage and prudence needed for other legislative actions in parallel and at the cutting edge, and also of high risk, such as the climate change package, the policy for vehicles, the lisbon strategy or sectors such as energy, transport, industry, tourism. i think it was a good exercise and a way of making irreversible progress, and that is what is important, towards the 21st century and of demonstrating, as the commissioner has said, that example which we want to set for the future. it has also been an example of confrontation and also of generosity and it comes at the right time, at a time of crisis with high social risks and also of protectionism and backwardness and with very strong uncertainties that need security. they need future elements too. it is also a new era for the united states - as has been said here - and we hope it will be a new era for the european union too, following the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, which we hope will come soon. and also a new era, and this is the important thing, where there are risks, but where there are huge opportunities for large areas and new policies like brazil, china or russia, the big emerging powers, but also large areas like latin america or the developing countries and africa in particular. i believe that this is a definitive step towards a new model of development, of economic and social growth, but with the requirement of sustainability and of reducing the impact. the commissioner and we, madam president, now have the challenge of communicating to the citizens. i just want to end by highlighting the progress in all things related to adaptation to the water and drought aspects and also the sustainable mobility aspects, which i think we have... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the car industry is not speculative, unlike so many others, and it operates with small unit sales margins, which only turn into profit if they sell a lot of units. cars may be said to be a major source of greenhouse gas emissions - that is true - but it is no less true that this industry, together with the ancillary sectors, accounts for 10% of the gdp of the european economy, provides 12 million jobs and accounts for 6% of employment in the whole union. it is therefore a sector of great importance for the well-being of our citizens, which we cannot leave to its fate, to the rules of pure supply and demand, which are what the financial crisis and then all the others, including the car crisis, have brought us. we must therefore look for supporting solutions, respecting the principle of free competition in the european union, which will provide the necessary help to save this productive sector, for which a european harmonising framework is needed that applies in all the member states. we know about the super-million dollar aid that has been given in the united states and elsewhere and also how certain countries play with the parity of their currencies and other mechanisms to be competitive in our markets. so let us not worry about what they say outside and let us take the necessary measures now, without further delay.
we now come to the point of incidental requests for the president to speak, and we have a problem, because many members have asked to speak. i shall therefore apply absolutely rigorously the decision of the bureau that five members shall be allowed to speak and that the floor shall be automatically cut off when the minutes allocated to each of them have expired.
i would like to take 30 seconds to explain to the honourable members what the rule has been set by the bureau of the house, because i understand that it is very unpleasant for those who ask to speak not to have the floor. what the bureau decided was that the fundamental debate time is the time allotted to those members who speak using the time allocated between the various parliamentary groups and then, on this 'incidental request for intervention' part-session, five members are given the floor, at the rate of one minute each, in order from largest to smallest per group, so that if six ask for it, if there are six minutes, it can be done. and it can be extended to six minutes, maybe seven. but in this case there were 12 members who had asked to speak and therefore only five have been allowed to speak, which is what the bureau has established for this point of the debate. i say this so that you may also take it into consideration at a later time. i now call on mr wondra to respond to the various interventions on behalf of the council. mr. minister, you have the floor.
yes, mr konrad, of course you have every right to protest and we have noted your protest. but you, who belong to a very responsible group in this house, will understand that it cannot be that individual members have more time than the groups, which are the ones who have the statutory responsibility to take part in the debates. the bureau took this decision unanimously. it is a decision which i consider to be common sense, in order to prevent people who do not sign up for the group, because their group does not give them the floor at that moment, from intervening later, so that the time was cut down: five minutes for five speeches, by order of the group, from the largest to the smallest, also making sure that they are not all of the same nationality. that's what was decided. of course, that rule can be changed. if the conference of presidents suggests to the bureau a change in procedure, the bureau will consider it with great interest. thank you very much, mr konrad, for your speech, which we take note of. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on consular protection for citizens of the european union in third countries.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, today in europe citizens travel without borders, can vote in a state other than their own, can collect their pension, have social security in any state in which they decide to reside - not only that: the police cooperate with each other or a prosecutor in stockholm can arrest, thanks to the euroorder, a person living in seville without any need to process anything directly. when it comes to repressing the behaviour of citizens, states have been wise to let their sovereignty slip. but when it comes to leaving the european union and protecting citizens, those same european citizens, as if using a time machine, see that time stops as soon as they leave the union. and outside the union we have 27 states, 27 administrations, 27 flags, 27 consular systems or, in some cases, not even that. and when there is a crisis, the european citizen ceases to be a european citizen. there is no such thing as european citizenship. and those 180 million europeans who travel the world realize that they can only be protected if they become germans, spaniards, poles or italians again. because as europeans we do not exist outside the european union. and that is a serious breach of the treaty and makes science fiction - i say this with all due respect - of the council statement just made. everything the council has told us about the alleged implementation of article 20 of the treaty, 'lead state', videoconferences, joint centres, is pure science fiction when one is in an emergency situation and 'as the commissioner has said' some of us have had the opportunity to experience that in practice. article 20 of the treaty is a blank piece of paper: there are no protocols of action; there are no legal rules; there is no information for the citizen; there is no responsibility for those who decide not to comply with it. at best, there is charity among the consuls. there is goodwill, as there could have been in the 19th century, as there could have been in beijing in 1800. that is the situation: complicity between consuls who eat and dine together and not the obligation to serve citizens together under a provision of european law. and so the european commission has an obligation, even before the lisbon treaty comes into force and, of course, after article 20 is implemented, to make european citizens feel proud of their passport and to make some officials feel that the 19th century is over and that europe also exists as such, in new delhi, in beirut and wherever it is needed, and wherever there is a european citizen in trouble.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, consular protection is a fundamental part of european citizenship. citizens want to feel european within the union, but also outside the european house; they want the union to respond to their needs, especially when they are in an emergency. in bombay, the union did not respond properly, as it has done in other crisis situations. ladies and gentlemen, let me put forward an idea for a moment, an idea which will not be a panacea but which will help european citizens in third countries in a concrete way. i would like to reiterate here today the proposal to create a free european emergency number. this number, which would also appear on the passport, together with article 20, will enable them to have access in their own language to the necessary information on the consulates of the member states of the union, which, i insist, will have to serve them. the citizens expect the union to act, not just speak.
president-in-office of the council. − i will try. on the first question on the targets for the reduction of the administrative burden, my country, with some other like-minded countries, has already started with the process somewhat in advance. along with the netherlands and some other countries, we have a national goal of a 20% reduction by 2010. we will have to see whether we can do more by 2012. the commission has announced a road map for the end of january 2009 showing how it will ensure that all the proposals needed to achieve the 25% reduction in the administrative burden at community level are tabled before the end of 2009. proposals tabled during the first half of this year in this area will be responded to by the council under the incumbent presidency, so we will certainly be dealing with that. we will evaluate the process during the spring european council. i hope that we will be able to act as thoroughly as we can. certainly this is what the presidency wants to do. on the late payment directive, the commission intends to publish the proposal at the end of february 2009. the presidency will start discussing the issue at the council's preparatory bodies. the last question – which i missed – was related to the european recovery plan. it was specifically about the amount of the possible eib loan. i hope that smes will be able to compete with those other big industries. we had a substantial debate on the automotive industry just an hour ago, so certainly i think that the general wish is that the smes would be able to benefit from that.
president-in-office of the council. − in response to mr medina ortega’s question, which relates to the wto, i think it is an important issue. we have all read the reports of – some of us even took an active part in – the davos world economic forum, and have listened to the recent comments by pascal lamy and others. there is no doubt that there is a fear of rising protectionism, so we are all very well aware of the challenges ahead of us. i would like to point out that on 15 november last year the members of the g20 emphasised the importance of establishing the modalities for an agreement by the end of 2008, which has already passed. in this context the delegations of the wto members, including the european commission on behalf of the eu, intensified their work in geneva with a view to providing a political impulse. a lot of work has been done, and the effort led to the new revision of the agri and nama texts. moreover, in the light of the current political and economic development, the european council in mid-december last year stated in its conclusions that it endorsed the objective of arriving this year, within the wto, at an agreement on the modalities leading to the conclusion of the doha round with an ambitious global and balanced report and result. the council and commission stood ready for constructive eu participation at the ministerial talks, if and when convened. however, on 12 december 2008, the wto director-general, pascal lamy, at an informal meeting of the heads of delegation, indicated that he would not convene the ministers to finalise modalities by the end of the year, because the conditions did not yet exist for a successful ministerial meeting, despite intensive consultation. the aim of the doha development agenda (dda) is to achieve transparent liberalisation of trade at multilateral level which will bring about long-term advantages and a major boost for the world economy, in particular for developing countries, due to the development-oriented character of this round. therefore, despite the fact that no conclusion was possible by the end of 2008, the council remains fully committed to the multilateral trade system, as well as to the conclusion of an ambitious, balanced and comprehensive outcome of the wto doha round. this is even more important given the current economic and financial situation. although the presidency is well aware of the obstacles that exist on the way toward successful completion of the whole process, it will undoubtedly seek to give an effect to these commitments by working on the renewal of discussions on the dda as soon as the conditions allow. it will also support more intensive work within the framework of other wto agendas, in particular in the areas of services and trips.
i thank you, mr president of the council, for your answer, which i think is quite complete, but i would like to remind the president of the council that last summer, in the summer of 2008, the doha talks were about to end and no agreement was reached because some of the bric countries were not prepared to make any concessions. given that the bric countries have been more prominent at the washington meeting, it is possible that the unwillingness of these countries was due to the fact that they were considered to occupy a secondary role, but at the washington meeting they have been given a preferential role in the situation. does the presidency of the council have any news that the bric countries, following the commitments made in washington, are prepared to play a more active role and to make a real contribution to the success of this doha round?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner for her words of solidarity. we have already said here what happened on 24 and 25 january, when many countries in the south of the union suffered the effects of a major storm with wind speeds of nearly 200 km/h over much of the iberian peninsula, and rain, as 30% of the rainfall for an entire year fell in a few hours. this resulted in significant material damage to property, services and public space, both in rural and urban areas, severe power cuts and the most irreparable: the loss of eleven human lives in the whole of spain due to landslides and accidents caused by strong wind gusts. one of the most tragic events was the death of four children, aged between nine and twelve, in the catalan town of sant boi de llobregat, when the wind blew down a pavilion in which they were playing baseball. the european union must not only mourn the loss of many lives, which are beyond recovery, but also show solidarity with the pain of their families by mobilizing the solidarity fund or any other fund it may create to help repair the material damage caused by this natural disaster. in catalonia, 20,000 hectares of forest have been affected, 75% of which are seriously or very seriously affected, and action is needed to reduce the future risk of fire, although this must be completed before summer. similarly, many riverbeds, streams and other watercourses have accumulated vegetable and other waste that can create barriers or plugs with the risk of producing flooding on a local scale. in view of these and many other effects, and aware that we do not yet have the full quantification of the material damage, which my country will of course provide through a request for assistance from the fund, we believe that the european commission should be involved in restoring normalcy in these territories, complementing the enormous public effort of the states concerned, and give priority to repairing the serious damage caused in order to restore as soon as possible the living conditions and economic stability of these territories, because it represents a brake on economic activity and a risk to the natural environment, loss of agricultural production, the cessation of the activity of many companies, massive fall of trees, etc. and so, in view of the characteristics and effects of this storm, i ask the commission to make these funds available as soon as possible, mainly for natural disasters with serious repercussions on life, the environment or the economy of a member state or of regions of the union. restoration of infrastructure, provision of equipment for the energy and drinking water sectors and cleaning up the affected areas would be among the objectives of eligible operations. that is why i ask you, commissioner, as soon as you have all the information you need, to put in place the possibility of mobilising these funds.
madam president, madam commissioner, on 23 january i was in galicia when winds of almost 200 kilometres per hour blew through my region: more than 40 000 hectares, madam commissioner, of forest land. galicia is the most densely forested area in the european union and, after the cyclone, hundreds of thousands of trees cut roads and knocked down more than five hundred kilometres of high and low voltage power lines that are still not fully repaired. more than 300,000 customers, including myself, suffered power cuts, sometimes for several days, and also telephone service. the storm caused damage to people and caused serious damage to homes, infrastructure, farms and livestock, businesses and industries, sports facilities and also public and municipal facilities. the response of the government of my region, galicia, to this storm, which is historically the most impactful known, allowed for the rapid approval of aid amounting to eur 17 million to compensate those affected and to subsidize the repair of the damage. but we have already heard, and some have mentioned it here, that on 26 january the two member states most affected, france and spain, asked for european aid to deal with the damage caused by this storm. since the definition of damage suffered by us corresponds to that of an extraordinary disaster in the current solidarity fund regulation, the governments of the two member states announced that they had begun work on processing applications for assistance from the fund. but once again, as in the recent floods in romania, the requirements of the regulation are so restrictive that they de facto prevent this disaster, madam commissioner, from being considered serious. i would simply like to recall here, as you have already done, as have other honourable members, that the commission put forward its proposal in 2005, that parliament delivered its opinion to reform the fund regulation in 2006 and that since then this matter has been blocked in the council, which has been sitting on that reform proposal for more than two years. i therefore ask you, madam commissioner, given the exceptional circumstances and the serious impact of the disaster on the living conditions and economic stability of the regions affected, to activate the fund as a sign of solidarity with the member states affected, but above all with the citizens affected, by giving them financial assistance, because i believe that this is, although not very significant in terms of its economic amount, the direct and urgent expression of european solidarity.
the next item is the report by mr friedrich-wilhelm graefe zu baringdorf, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the marketing and use of feedingstuffs (com (2008) 0124 - c6-0128/2008 - 2008/0050 (cod)) (a6-0407/2008).
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, as i did at the meeting of the committee on agriculture, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, the other group alternate rapporteurs and the council on the work they have done. the work that has enabled us to reach agreement at first reading has also been an excellent exercise in the codecision procedure, which will be the usual procedure in our committee in the near future. at present, ladies and gentlemen, the legislation on the movement of feed materials and compound feed for animals, including pet animals, - a sector which represents a turnover of some eur 50 billion at community level - is regulated by many directives and some 50 amending or implementing acts. simplification of the rules and harmonized application of the rules are the main objectives, which this regulation will undoubtedly achieve. in 2006, the committee on agriculture of this parliament had already discussed the marketing of feed. at that time, as everyone will remember, we unanimously asked the european commission to find the right balance in the future review between the interest of farmers in having detailed information on ingredients and the interest of industry in having sufficient protection for their know-how. the compromise reached on the main sensitive points of the commission proposal, the open declaration of raw materials and the creation of the community catalogue of raw materials reflect well, in my view, this balance. the positive response to the commitment by all parties involved is proof of this. the undertaking does indeed allow, in the open declaration, to preserve the right of buyers to be informed and that of manufacturers to ownership of their know-how, by stating that the information must be provided without prejudice to the 2004 directive on intellectual property rights. there is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that in a relationship of trust between supplier and user the formulas are known, but it would be illogical to be obliged to give the recipe to the first customer who appears at the door. many of us have been drinking coca-cola for years, we do not know the recipe and yet we have no doubt that the characteristics and the health standards are respected. the court of justice's judgment cited above states, in the negative, that the obligation to inform customers who so request of the exact composition of their feedingstuffs is not justified by the objective of protecting health which it pursues. that said, i would like to remind you that the competent authority will be able to have access at any time to the exact composition and that, as stated in the undertaking reached, any urgency relating to human or animal health or the environment will allow the buyer to be provided with accurate information on the composition of the food concerned, after weighing the legitimate interests of both manufacturers and buyers. as regards the catalogue of good labelling practices, the voluntary nature of this instrument at the service of the professionals in the sector is maintained without at any time becoming a positive list of raw materials for the manufacture of compound feedingstuffs, because this is something that we had not been asked to do. the rules will, however, include, at the request of the european parliament, a new annex containing a list of raw materials whose placing on the market or use for animal feed is prohibited or restricted, a catalogue or annex or a list which the commission may keep up to date. the group of the european socialists, my group, which i represent, ladies and gentlemen, supports the compromise reached and has not tabled any amendments to the report. we are in full agreement with the position as it is presented here today in this house and we shall therefore vote in favour of it.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank everyone for their remarks, and shall now reply to some of those remarks. first of all, on the question of safety, safety of feed is guaranteed by the negative list of feed materials which cannot be used in feeds. the proposal contains the list of feed materials which are forbidden. the commission will extend that list every time it is convinced that it is necessary to add to that negative list. on the other hand, i wish to remind you that there is a large list of maximum levels of contaminants, such as dangerous micro-toxins, heavy metals and dioxins, which has been in force, under the directive on undesirable substances, since 2002. i would agree with all those who said, as i confirmed, that european food is safe. however, as i also indicated last night during our discussions, laws and regulations are as good as we make them, and we therefore have to remain vigilant and see to it that member states, feed dealers and, indeed, the commission ensure that everybody sticks to their obligations in ensuring that laws really are enforced and that they are good laws. the recent irish meat incident highlights the need for stringent enforcement and controls on legal requirements, and my services will continue to examine how that can be improved. i am confident that, once the new rules come into force, regulation of the feed market will be significantly improved, in the interests of both feed manufacturers and users. last but not least, i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for his excellent contribution, and all members for their constructive and positive role in reaching an agreement on this important initiative.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
the following is the report by mr constantin dumitriu, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 3/2008 on information provision and promotion measures for agricultural products in the internal market and in third countries (com (2008) 0431 - c6-0313/2008 - 2008/0131 (cns)) (a6-0004/2009).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that it is in any case guilty of an excessive complacency towards the colombo government. it is another case, i am afraid, of simplifying, criminalizing and continuing to persecute a group simply by arguing that it is a terrorist group. things are a lot more complicated than that. however, the present situation, i think, deserves that parliament also sends some clear messages on certain aspects. for example, one of the key points i think is important to highlight is the call from tokyo on the need for both sides, namely the ltte (tamil eelam liberation tigers) but also the government, to understand that a ceasefire must be agreed to allow humanitarian aid to enter and the wounded and sick to leave. secondly, i think it is essential to remember that there can be no military solution, mr tannock. there can't be, it's simply not possible. it is therefore time to negotiate the terms of the cessation of violence, demobilization and disarmament. but for that to happen, the government must cease its pursuit of a military victory that only prolongs the suffering of so many people. a goodwill gesture would be, for example, to allow independent information and humanitarian personnel into the north. i am also of the opinion that the gsp plus should never have been granted to a country like sri lanka, given the serious and constant violations of human and fundamental rights in the country, many of which are instigated by the government authorities themselves. i think we should seriously consider opening a substantive debate on the appropriateness of applying this preferential framework and, above all, on the consequences of this for the situation of many groups, including workers. i therefore call on the european commission to carry out a genuine on-the-spot investigation to verify the effects of this measure and to review it if this is the case.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in burma is not so bad as it was in the past. and there i witnessed firsthand the injustice with which we are politically and media-wise treating some parts of the world. and it's that too often we move at the headline. and what we are experiencing in burma, which is not on the front page today, is a drama that is not very different from what moves us in many other cases. we have clear examples of persecution, torture, illegal detentions, rape and other atrocities by the burmese military junta. one of the most shameful acts of recent times has been the adoption of a supposed constitution which violates the most fundamental democratic principles and guarantees almost total impunity for all these acts. it is therefore quite understandable that the population is fleeing this situation, as the karen people have been doing for years, or as we have just denounced in the resolution today, as the rohingya intercepted in thailand were doing. in this connection, i also noted during my visit that both thailand and the international community are entering a worrying pattern of submission to the junta. for example, many organizations of lawyers, opposition parties, refugees and political prisoners warned us of the terrible consequences for the burmese population if the international community and, specifically, the european union, supported and endorsed the sham elections called by the spdc for 2010. this, we were warned, would give the junta carte blanche to continue committing all kinds of crimes with impunity. the political and ethnic groups opposed to the junta are perfectly organised and have drawn up an alternative constitution which is much more in line with the principles we claim to defend in the european union. it would be a mistake, therefore, if we now abandoned them to their fate and became active or passive accomplices of the burmese dictatorship.
the author. - madam president, i think mr mauro has set out the facts perfectly. we have a killer: four murders. and, in addition, other acts for which he has been found guilty by the italian courts, such as belonging to an armed group, possession of firearms - in most european countries it is a serious crime - and acts of violence. this gentleman has been convicted by an italian court. and we find that, on december 17, the brazilian government - a democratic government - recognizes him as a political refugee. as mr mauro has said, the european union must express its solidarity with the italian government and show this democratic and friendly country, brazil, that the present situation has been a mistake. the brazilian authorities tell us that the matter is still pending an appeal to the federal supreme court, but it is regrettable that this has been done. it should also be remembered that the european court of human rights rejected mr battisti's request for protection and that the european union is now basing its action on respect for fundamental human rights, which is a fundamental constitutional element of the european constitution. so, given the existing ties of friendship between the european union and brazil, it is appropriate to remind the brazilian authorities that they have a good ally and a good friend here, but we also hope that, in return, they will not act in this way, as they have done in the past.
the author. - i am present at this meeting but, by virtue of an agreement adopted by the socialist group, i do not take part in the vote, but i am present.
the author. - yes, there is something but i don't know if it's a problem of understanding or not. theoretically, the version we have of the oral amendment is that the text that should remain is 'cease fire', not 'non fire'. is that so, or is that a misinterpretation on my part? the text that has to stay is "cease fire".
on behalf of the ppe-de group, i would like to thank the three rapporteurs of the european parliament - mr saryusz-wolski, mr von wogau and mr vatanen - for their reports and to stress, as the commissioner and the high representative have done, that they are a significant contribution by parliament to the task of developing a foreign security and defence policy which is strong, which is visible, which is effective, which guarantees the defence of our interests in the world, which protects and provides security for our citizens, which helps to set in motion a european union which contributes to an effective multilateralism and, above all, mr president, which can help to ensure that respect for human rights and democratic values is taught in all parts of the world. i believe that the treaty of lisbon and the news coming today from the republic of ireland - where the polls are 60% in favour of the treaty of lisbon - and the czech republic - with the ratification of the treaty of lisbon by parliament - should mark the coming of age of the european union in terms of its foreign and security policy. and above all, they must help to accelerate the european response of our governments to the crises. i believe that the european union must develop its own strategic considerations - this is obvious, and it is reflected in the new security strategy - but without forgetting that the transatlantic link is written into the genetic code of the european union and that the united states, through the north atlantic treaty organisation, has been guaranteeing security in europe and, at the moment, there is no alternative to this link. i believe that europe can only become a 'power' if it does so by asserting itself not against the united states but alongside the united states as two partners who share the same worldview and mutual respect. this does not mean, of course, that the european union should give a blank cheque; we will have to defend our views and our values when we consider it appropriate and the united states will also have to learn to respect the positions of the european union, because, as mrs ferrero-waldner and mr solana's action implies, we are an institution capable of being respected internationally and with a remarkable capacity for dialogue in all regions of the planet.
i would like to begin by thanking the three rapporteurs for their work and, as the alternative rapporteur for the cfsp report, i will refer to this report in particular, starting by congratulating mr saryusz-wolski on the result of his work and on the collaboration he has offered to the other groups to achieve a consensus result. just as this parliament has called on numerous occasions for the european union to be equipped with the necessary instruments to speak with one voice in the world, so too the house itself is able to show itself to be cohesive in evaluating and promoting the major priorities in the common foreign and security policy. the efforts of our group - the socialist group - have gone in two directions: on the one hand, to introduce or reinforce major issues which are key to us, in a way that is transversal to the whole of foreign policy, such as the fight against climate change, the promotion of peace throughout the planet or a commitment to human development; on the other hand, to propose elements of rebalancing between the geographical priorities of the cfsp as they originally appeared in the text, if they did appear, or to introduce them as a new element, if they were absent. we have thus advocated, for example, greater clarity in the actions between the institutional and cooperation frameworks involved in the newly defined eastern dimension. we have advocated greater diversification and greater relevance of relations with africa, a continent which we often remember only when wars of particular virulence occur, and often not even so. with regard to latin america, we wanted to reflect the current process of negotiating association agreements, the first bi-regional agreements to be concluded by the european union in its entire history. as regards the mediterranean, we have opposed a reductionist approach that only talks about security, in order to include, instead, the entire rich political, economic and socio-cultural heritage contained in the barcelona process. as regards the amendments for the plenary, our group has not tabled any, believing that this somehow strengthens the balance achieved with the commitments and we will therefore oppose most of the amendments in order not to weaken the compromise reached in the committee on foreign affairs.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my overall support for the three reports we are debating. secondly, i would like to congratulate commissioner benita ferrero, particularly on her expression of the close cooperation and collaboration between her team and that of the high representative. and thirdly, i would like to congratulate the high representative, because without his personality and his creativity the cfsp would probably not be what it is today: the legal and documentary basis, even with the progress of the 2003 strategy paper, would not have been sufficient to go as far as it has in the common foreign and security policy that he has achieved in these years. and fourthly, i would like to say that the treaty of lisbon, which, as has been said today, is the good news that it can be ratified soon, will undoubtedly be a much bigger and better instrument in your hands and in those of the european union to make it what it should be: a global actor in the full sense of the term. i would like to conclude by saying that i am in favour of the idea he himself has expressed, namely that europe must be an actor, a civil power with military means and not a military power.
mr solana, i have been here since 3 p.m. just to talk about piracy and just to congratulate you on the launching of the european naval operation against piracy in the indian ocean. you know that the government of my country is absolutely involved in this mission and i want to remind you that in april the fishing season begins and that our fishermen are concerned about what is, at the moment, the distribution of geographical forces, of forces, in the indian ocean. they would like protection closer to the area where they are going to work, that is to say, to the south, and i would like to hear from you on this. i would also like to tell you that i am concerned about the continuity of this operation beyond the temporary mandate you have set. i think it would be a pity if so much joint effort with all three pillars at once came to an abrupt end at the end of the one-year deadline, especially considering that the situation in somalia and in the region does not seem to be changing or improving in the short or medium term.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am grateful for this opportunity to contribute to today’s discussion on the issue of the barcelona process: union for the mediterranean. i know that parliament follows this with particular interest. pasqualina napoletano is to be commended in particular. as a result, the motion for a resolution on which you will be voting later constitutes a valuable contribution to our work together. the paris summit last july created the union for the mediterranean and established a partnership built on the existing barcelona process. the current rotating presidency gives priority to strengthening this partnership. even though the lisbon treaty has not yet come into force, i can assure you that, in the spirit of co-ownership, we are placing a particular focus on the development of this initiative and, in particular, the regional projects. these are important. they offer concrete signs to the citizens of the region that the partnership works in their interest. the union for the mediterranean is not the only mechanism for cooperation. the bilateral dimension continues under the european neighbourhood policy, and is complemented in some cases by the pre-accession framework – as well as, in the case of mauritania, the acp framework. these approaches together encourage reform within individual countries, and reinforce regional cooperation. the neighbourhood policy, of course, also has an important eastern dimension, and we very much welcome the parallel development of this policy. the paris summit agreed to take work forward in four key areas: de-pollution of the mediterranean; maritime and land highways; civil protection; and the development of alternative energies through, for example, the mediterranean solar plan. there is also particular focus on higher education and research, as well as on support for business through the mediterranean business development initiative. the technical aspects of project proposals put forward in this area will be handled by the secretariat to be established in barcelona, as was agreed in marseilles last year. in addition to these specific project areas, the ministerial conferences of the union for the mediterranean will address a number of global challenges that affect us all. these include the search for peace and security in the region, the social and geopolitical impact of the economic crisis, environmental concerns, the management of migratory flows, and the role of women in our respective societies. there are two particular areas of cooperation which i know are important to this parliament and which we also fully support. the first is interparliamentary cooperation through the creation of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly and its committees. this initiative is key to developing a strong parliamentary dimension to the union for the mediterranean. it will, as is pointed out in your resolution, serve to reinforce its democratic legitimacy. it will also help promote the basic values which lie at the heart of the european union. we very much welcome the way in which you and your president have embraced this particular initiative, and offer you our full support. the second area which i believe should be a particular priority for us is the development of intercultural relations. this is absolutely crucial if we are to encourage greater understanding between cultures in the mediterranean region. civil society, local social and regional partners all need to be involved. the anna lindh foundation has a particularly important role to play in this area. the union for the mediterranean offers us the potential for developing better relations among its members. recent events have shown that this is not an easy enterprise, but they have also underlined the importance of our continuing to work to this end. we are only too aware of the difficulties faced by the populations in the region as a result of the crisis in gaza. as you know, this has led to the postponement of meetings of the union for the mediterranean. but the presidency believes that regional cooperation and dialogue is the way to achieve peace, build confidence and create prosperity and we certainly expect to resume work within the union for the mediterranean as soon as possible. therefore, a démarche of the czech eu presidency and the french union for the mediterranean co-presidency, on behalf of the eu members of the union for the mediterranean, possibly together with the egyptian co-presidency, addressed to our arab partners, is just being prepared. its purpose is to appeal for a resumption of all union for the mediterranean activities automatically and without any conditionality immediately after the league of arab states doha summit at the end of march. we intend to use the opportunity of the donor conference on gaza, which will be held on 2 march in sharm el-sheikh in egypt, for further consideration by the three ministers of foreign affairs: karel schwarzenberg, the czech foreign minister; bernard kouchner, the french foreign minister; and the foreign minister of egypt.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i should like to congratulate you, dear mrs napoletano, on the work you have done, which has resulted in a report which is really very interesting in many respects. firstly, because it is a genuinely positive and constructive contribution by the european parliament to the definition of a coherent euro-mediterranean policy, a challenge which is so close to our hearts. secondly, because you rightly stress that the union for the mediterranean must be completed. it must not be merely intergovernmental, but must be complemented by the participation of other actors, such as local and regional authorities. the parliamentary dimension should be strengthened by strengthening the role of the parliamentary assembly and by ensuring the involvement of civil society. it is true that the union for the mediterranean is intended to enhance the institutional and political parity of a regional partnership which needs a boost. but it is equally true that this can only be achieved on the basis of the barcelona acquis, which must be extended and consolidated. regional cooperation financed by the commission is part of this acquis. so there is no reason to question it today. on the contrary, it guarantees and guarantees the coherence of the european union's action in the region, especially since its objectives are perfectly compatible with the ambitions of the european neighbourhood policy, the main framework for our bilateral relations with the countries of the region. the same applies to the respect of community methods applied to the decision-making and priority-setting mechanisms within the european union, since the union for the mediterranean is an initiative which is fully in line with the european framework. mr president, as you know, the three objectives of the constitutive summit of the union for the mediterranean were to give political force to euro-mediterranean relations, to change the institutional governance of these relations in favour of a joint approach to the initiative and, finally, to consolidate the european union's multilateral cooperation with its mediterranean partners around structural projects, promoting subregional integration and capable of reducing the development gap between the two shores of the mediterranean. to reduce these disparities effectively through social and economic development and through increased trade and investment. to counter ideological radicalism, whose lack of development and sense of injustice are the fertile ground, through dialogue and political solutions to conflicts. to conduct responsible and concerted migration policies, as you have said, in order to take advantage of the demographic stabilisation in europe and the demographic growth in the mediterranean countries. these are just some examples of the challenges we must tackle together with our partners in the union for the mediterranean. we know that we cannot achieve these objectives without parliamentary support, the support of both the european parliament and the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. it is in this spirit that we are working, with the firm conviction that the european commission can count on your cooperation on all these matters, and i would like to thank you in advance for that. but we also know that, of course, in the face of the very worrying situation in the middle east following the war in gaza - we have discussed this today - we do have a problem: we cannot leave the union for the mediterranean in a political vacuum. we've always said it; indeed, it is. that is why we are suspending work at the moment, which i personally regret very much, but we naturally hope to be able to resume work at some point. and indeed, the meeting in sharm el-sheikh, where the commission will of course have an important role to play as 'sponsor', will be very important. i hope that afterwards there will be various other meetings. we have already done a great deal of work, and when the commission works, it does so in a very serious way. in addition, much has been done on the rules governing the secretariat, which are in place and should enable barcelona to begin its work.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. - every poem is never finished, it is only abandoned, said a mediterranean poet born in sète, and i think that something similar happened to the barcelona process: it was not finished, but it was abandoned, or at least a little. the impetus given under the french presidency to renew this barcelona process is therefore important to this parliament. and that is why we have actively collaborated with mrs napoletano's report from the committee on constitutional affairs, and i would like to thank her for her patience and understanding. what was the matter with the committee on constitutional affairs, mr president? the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals that have been put forward by the european parliament and the council. and that is why we have insisted from the committee on constitutional affairs on issues which were already expressed by president pöttering on 13 july 2008 and which concern how the parliamentary assembly should meet once a year, should be organised in groups constituted according to political families and make advisory opinions. we also tried to help the council in the important decisions it had to take. this parliament, mr vondra, wants to cooperate with the council and we established the criteria for the seat of this new union for the mediterranean and, incidentally, those criteria coincided with the city of a country that i know very well and, indeed, the committee on constitutional affairs decided that barcelona could be a good seat. and the ministers acknowledged this shortly afterwards, which again reflects that willingness to cooperate with the council, mr president. i started by quoting paul valéry; let me finish by quoting a verse from paul valéry: "tu n'as que moi pour contenir tes craintes!" i believe that nothing can solve the fears on both sides of the mediterranean better than the success of this union for the mediterranean. so be it, mr president, and again, mrs napoletano, thank you for your understanding and help.
on behalf of the pse group. on behalf of the socialist group, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs napoletano on the excellent report she has presented to us this afternoon, but above all and above all because she has been a prima ora euro-mediterranean. without their work, without their drive, we would not have been able to imagine, first, a euro-mediterranean parliamentary forum and, later, a euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, and we would not be in a position today to claim the role that the representatives of the citizens should have in what we are trying to set in motion. i want to follow my colleague méndez de vigo, who always quotes great literary figures, recalling a phrase in shakespeare's king lear, where it is stated that 'when one says that he is in the worst moment, it is because the worst is yet to come'. we have tried to do the opposite, because at a time when the situation in the middle east is worse than ever, we have put in place an instrument to ensure that the region as a whole contributes to political, economic and social development as an essential framework for resolving conflicts. that is the union for the mediterranean, after all. that is a union for the mediterranean which is not ex novo, but which comes from the deep root of the barcelona process; yes, by creating new institutions such as the permanent secretariat, which will be in barcelona, something we welcome as europeans, as mediterranean people, as spaniards and as parliamentarians who asked for it at the time, and also by welcoming the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly as what it should be: parliamentary, citizen expression in this union. of course, we must give apem what it deserves: consultation, monitoring and proposals. the union for the mediterranean must be based on co-management, must have sufficient funding and must focus on regional integration and the satisfaction of citizens' needs.
on behalf of the green group, thank you, mrs napoletano, for this excellent report. two days before the war in gaza broke out, i was representing parliament and the paem in jordan at the last ministerial conference before the middle east violence suspended activities again. it was a conference on water; it was a ministerial conference on one of the key issues where there has to be cooperation across the mediterranean, which is going to create conflict, which is a matter of survival, which is also the target of possible large projects involving solar energy, involving water transfer, many things, in the mediterranean. that's how crucial it is. these activities have been suspended and i hope that there will soon be a continuation of the activities of the union for the mediterranean and that there will be progress in the middle east. we have set ourselves very ambitious targets in the mediterranean. the results have been much more modest, particularly in the areas of human rights, democracy and the environment. we must also promote the south-south market, cooperation between the countries of the south, and not just obsess over a large free market in the mediterranean, which is not preceded by cooperation between countries which have conflicts enshrined one after the other. at the same time, we have to deal with the energy crisis. and the energy crisis, the current economic crisis, can be an opportunity to move forward with very important projects, both for europe and for our neighbours to the south, such as the design of solar thermal plants and the creation of smart, clean grids that connect north africa, the middle east and europe in a big clean project that fights climate change and fights the economic crisis.
i would like to thank mrs napoletano for her work. secondly, i should like to say that as an alternative rapporteur i have asked my group not to vote in favour of this report for two fundamental reasons. firstly, because the latest conflict, the latest israeli aggression on gaza is of such magnitude that it cannot go unpunished. everything has a limit, it is not the first time, but this aggression against palestinian sovereignty is of such a magnitude that it really prevents the implementation of the annapolis agreement and prevents the prospect of the creation of a palestinian state, which is the only possibility of having a union for the mediterranean in peace and solidarity. the second reason why i have recommended that we do not vote in favour is because when we are dealing with the free trade area we do not take asymmetries into account. we believe it is essential that trade aspects be taken into account in the equal treatment of peers, taking into account regional asymmetries and the particular characteristics of each country.
mr president, a year and a half ago we adopted here the audiovisual media directive, a text which had at its heart the principle of respect for the country of origin, which we define as essential in order to ensure the free circulation of audiovisual information within the european union. however, in my own country, spain, the directive cannot be applied because it is the case in a member state, the valencian community is imposing the exact opposite principle and for political reasons is imposing the closure of the repeaters which have allowed its citizens to receive the public television signal from catalonia. in other words, there is complete freedom of movement of audiovisual information between the member states of the european union, but at the same time it must be pointed out that in spain there are authorities who are afraid of this same cultural freedom, which is so essential, so essential that it has been imposed on the whole of europe, and yet within spain it is prevented that some may receive the television of others. this is the paradox i wanted to share with you.
mr president, the venezuelan referendum has resulted in a 'yes' vote, which has been elegantly recognised by the democratic opposition. it is no less true that there has been no equality of opportunity in the campaign and that the bureaucracy has had the overwhelming support of the entire state apparatus, while the opposition has suffered constant harassment and coercion. even under these conditions the country has been practically divided into two halves and it will be very difficult to build the future with only one of them. the european union should promote dialogue, inclusion and consensus among venezuelan political and social actors for the good of the country. it is not with visceral attitudes, disqualifications or insults that we will help venezuela find its democratic, pluralist and free path. in this connection we criticise the venezuelan government's decision to expel a spanish mep and much more the manner in which this expulsion was carried out, but we call on this house to prevent our representatives, in their visits to third countries, from making statements which violate the local legislation in force and, even less, from insulting a head of state, however objectionable he may be. with these attitudes we are compromising future missions of the european parliament to other countries.
mr president, i have just arrived from venezuela, where i was invited by the electoral authority as a member of an international electoral monitoring group for the referendum on 15 december. the european members of this group have submitted a report to the national electoral council with an overall positive assessment of the process as regards its organisation, transparency, participation, free and secret exercise of the right to vote and security at all stages. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our parliament should not encourage any kind of confrontation with the democratic institutions of venezuela. on the contrary, it would be for the honourable member to explain to this house an action which affects us all.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to confirm the undertaking i gave, on behalf of the commission, to carry out the mid-term review of the financial instruments in 2009. this was in response to parliament’s request during the final negotiations on the instruments. that review will take the form of a communication, accompanied by legislative proposals where appropriate. the adoption of the communication is foreseen for april 2009 and is included in the commission’s legislative work programme. the review is about the implementation of the instruments. it should be distinguished from the other mid-term review currently underway – and also foreseen in the regulations – which relates to the programming documents and the strategy papers for 2011-2013. this new programming will give rise to a round of democratic scrutiny, as for the first programming exercise covering 2007-2010. the two exercises are different, but they are complementary. it is important to fix issues related to instruments before the new programming period. the strategy and programming review will take place during 2009 in order to be ready in 2010 for democratic scrutiny by parliament. as regards the development cooperation instrument (dci), our preliminary reflections confirm an issue that will be at the core of the review: the legislative gap as regards non-oda activities for countries covered by the dci. what are these non-oda activities? they are of various natures, but the current four preparatory actions initiated by this parliament give a good outlook on what we are talking about: cooperation with middle-income countries in asia and latin america, which is not covered by the dci, and business and scientific exchanges with china and india. on these kinds of activities, we agree with you on the need to have legislation to cover measures which promote eu concerns in dci countries. this could be done either through a new legal instrument or through amending the existing industrialised countries instrument (ici) regulation. when we prepared the new external relations instruments in 2006, we agreed that they should also cover the external dimension of our internal policies. we agreed that this could be done under the legal basis for external actions. this represented a considerable simplification compared to the previous situation. it will be difficult for the commission to follow this approach. we consider that the legal basis must reflect the objectives and content of the instrument. we recognise that there is a problem with non-oda activities. by their nature, such activities do not qualify as development assistance. therefore, a proposal that deals only with such activities cannot fall under development cooperation – under article 179, as you mentioned. given that we want to cover known oda activities, it seems likely that article 181a of the treaty will be the most appropriate legal basis, since it covers economic, financial and technical cooperation. however, before making any proposal, the commission will consider the question carefully in the light of the position expressed by parliament. it would be helpful to have parliament’s position so that we can finalise our proposals before the elections, as we promised. finally, i see that the report calls for more resources. we will have to look into it. you know the very tight situation of heading 4 of the financial framework. one could argue that emerging countries are in transition and that the current assistance envelope should accompany that transition – that is with a gradual shift from the development focus to non-oda activity. we will examine this as part of the review. these are the commission’s initial considerations on the report that we are discussing today. we consider it to be a good basis for our common work, and i look forward to hearing what the members have to say.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, the committee on budgets considers that it is of the utmost importance that each budgetary instrument be clearly identified. the most realistic option therefore seems to be the creation of a new instrument for actions other than official development assistance for countries falling within the scope of the regulation. from a budgetary point of view, the financing proposal from the committee on development does not seem appropriate, since this money does not exist, since these lines do not have an amount of appropriation allocated on a multiannual basis; there is an appropriation for 2009, but no further. in any event, since the financing of this new cooperation instrument must be compatible with the 2007-2013 financial framework, it is appropriate to recall the importance of the mid-term review of the financial framework, which should allow an adjustment of the ceilings of the various headings.
member of the commission. − mr president, after hearing all the different contributions, it is clear that the members’ main concern is the choice of the legal basis. i stated in my introduction the direction in which the commission seeks to go, but i will certainly be very happy to take up your suggestions also. you know that we want the best development assistance for all countries, and this is the main thrust of our thinking. so let us work together in order to find the right solution.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i should like to stress first of all the unanimity achieved in the itre committee on this report. the unanimity was possible thanks to the good work and collaboration of the alternative rapporteurs, who also contributed a great deal to the preparation of a useful report on a subject as important as the european research infrastructures. i have to say that this parliament shares the commission's view that, in the face of the globalisation of research and the emergence of new scientific and technological powers such as china and india, it is urgent to accelerate and, to that end, to encourage the construction of our european research area. it is very important to make the european union as soon as possible an area where researchers, technology and knowledge can circulate freely, where there is effective coordination of research activities and where the best use of resources is made, which requires, among other things, the availability of large research infrastructures at european level. such infrastructures can also provide an excellent opportunity for collaboration between the different member states, with important effects on the scientific training of our young people and a strong economic impact on european industry. they are therefore fundamental to the progress of science in europe and we must therefore facilitate their development. we therefore welcome the commission's initiative to propose a legal framework and the conditions for this. indeed, from the outset we considered the development of european research infrastructures as one of the pillars of the european research area, although we were always aware of the difficulties that would have to be overcome, not only because of the significant financial resources required - it should be remembered that the esfri roadmap identifies 44 projects that will have to be developed over the next ten years - but also because of the technical and organisational complexity of the issue itself. i would like to stress once again that parliament should have played a much more decisive role in an initiative of this calibre. but the urgency of these measures and the absence of a better legal basis in the existing treaty sufficiently justify the use of article 171, which is just one more reason to proclaim the need for a new treaty as soon as possible. i will briefly mention some of the contributions of the report: firstly, it clarifies the definition of 'european research infrastructure' to avoid confusion between what is the legal entity and the research infrastructure itself; it also clarifies and completes the requirements for a research infrastructure to be considered european-wide, adding important issues such as presenting an impact assessment of the proposal at european level, justifying its funding capacity and ensuring a good access policy for the entire european scientific community. we also propose extending this initiative to existing infrastructure and we give our full support to the commission's proposal for a vat exemption, which seems to us to be the key element of this initiative. in this connection, we want to send a clear message to the council to put an end to its problems on this issue as soon as possible and to make it clear once again that if we want to promote research in europe we must free it from tax burdens, something which we have already recommended on several occasions to encourage the participation of smes in r & d tasks and which we must now support in connection with the creation of large research infrastructures at european level, because they are essential for the progress of science. in conclusion, i would like to thank once again all the alternative rapporteurs, the commission for their excellent cooperation and also the itre committee for their help in preparing their report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will continue to make proposals in the future. in conclusion, i would simply say that most of us agree on the essential points. the message is clear: research excellence requires high-quality research infrastructures and, basically because of their high construction and operating costs, it is important to share much of these research infrastructures. in other words, it is more than reasonable to think about creating european-wide infrastructures that can serve the entire european scientific community. the roadmap drawn up by esfri has certainly been a step forward towards better planning of research infrastructures at european level. the question now is how to put this road map into practice. to do this, one of the main problems is certainly financing, as some of my colleagues have pointed out, because despite the increase in funding for infrastructure in the seventh framework programme and the possibilities for supporting infrastructure in the cohesion policy programmes, which have also been mentioned by some of my colleagues, the budget of the european union is not sufficient to finance all the necessary infrastructure. it is therefore essential to mobilise sources of funding, both national and private, as far as possible, especially from industry, although, as the commissioner has very well said, this is not a good time. another difficulty, no less important, was the lack of a legal structure. this is what the commission has been aiming at when it has put forward this proposal: to establish a legal framework and the conditions for developing research infrastructures at european level. a good proposal, which we are convinced of, is being strengthened by this parliament, as the commissioner has already said. i would therefore ask the council once again to listen to our message.
the rapporteur. - mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, reconciling the proper maintenance of ecosystems with the sustainable exploitation of marine resources, preventing and controlling the impacts of human activities on the environment, improving knowledge, technological development and innovation are tasks which cannot be undertaken without the support of the european scientific community. fisheries research is also essential for formulating recommendations and advising legislators. more investment in research and development, as well as in the collection and processing of reliable data, would result in a stronger and more sustainable common fisheries policy. but although the phrase i heard from a scientist ('not money, but human resources are the problem') is a good description of the situation, i will not be the one to say that research in the fisheries sector is over-funded, but that we have a double problem. on the one hand, commissioner, the amounts entered in the seventh framework programme for marine research, which should have been a transversal issue, seem insufficient for the integrated approach that is being taken at the moment to this question. in addition, commissioner, scientists - and i assure you that i have spoken to many of them in preparing this report, both before and during its preparation - are facing problems when submitting projects to the seventh framework programme: problems which are partly attributable to the different approach required, on the one hand, by aquaculture, which is essentially industrial in nature, and, on the other, by research in fisheries and marine sciences, which is multidisciplinary in nature and which is more long-term. until the seventh framework programme, these two fields were covered by the same funds and were under the responsibility of dg fisheries, allowing for their complementarity. the current dg research is in charge and the result is that it is proving difficult for the scientific community to convey the concerns and needs of the sector to the officials who draw up the call guidelines. on the other hand, there is a certain perception in the scientific community that this directorate-general seems to have chosen to prioritise basic research without giving room to research focused on public policy. i will give you an example: to enrich the community's maritime strategy from a scientific point of view or to investigate the relationship between fishing and climate change. in summary, the european union's maritime policy objective of achieving productive fisheries in a clean marine environment requires access for scientists working in this field to horizontal funding mechanisms in the seventh framework programme. i would like to conclude by referring to the second problem: the worrying shortage of young scientists in fisheries research, which seems to be the result of careers that are not very attractive compared with other basic sciences. it seems indispensable to establish interesting and rewarding university courses that offer good career opportunities. it also seems necessary to harmonise the different applied research models in force in the various member states, in order to be able to compare results better and to facilitate the aggregation of data, and to intensify cooperation between national research institutes. and i certainly think it is essential to integrate fishermen's experience and expertise more closely into the process of drawing up scientific opinions on which to base policy decisions under the cfp.
madam president, i am in favour of the member states being able to reduce vat rates for certain social benefits and local activities which are labour-intensive on a harmonised basis and indefinitely. it has been found that such measures provide greater purchasing power for our citizens, improve the environment and productivity of smes and strengthen the formal economy. in this time of recession it can stimulate recovery, growth and employment. the extension of reduced rates to children's diapers and disabled-adapted equipment, e-books, environmental tasks such as sewerage and recycling, all dwellings, places of worship and cultural and artistic heritage, catering services, gardening activities and personal care is welcome. i therefore support the van den burg report and hope that political agreement will be reached next month to enable it to be implemented as soon as possible, pending the next energy efficiency package.
madam president, madam commissioner, this is the last budget of this parliamentary term and hopefully it will also be the last budget before the lisbon treaty and the new budgetary provisions come into force. the debate today is on the budgetary guidelines, because that is what they are, and it is quite clear that they must be budgetary guidelines which we must approve here in good time to influence the preparation of the preliminary draft budget which the commissioner is preparing, as she has just told us. they are guidelines because they include the political priorities of this parliament, which must be given content and budgetary allocation. the budget of the european union is a struggle for scarce resources, especially in this time of economic and financial crisis. that is why it is of the utmost importance to decide now what the political priorities of the european parliament will be, all the more so since this budget will be a bridge between two mandates of the european parliament, and even between two mandates of the european commission. the commissioner has already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. that is why it is of the utmost importance that we reach a consensus in this house on priorities. of course, we will budget, as we did last year, for the greater security of our citizens. that security includes a whole host of different sections, such as social cohesion, job search and cohesion, and - as was unfortunately said at the beginning of this part-session - it is also necessary to strengthen security and the fight against terrorism, because everyone must not forget that the fight against terrorism is unfortunately still a priority for the european union. of course, another priority will be the fight against the economic crisis. the economic recovery plan has demonstrated the limits and shortcomings of the annual budget, the multiannual financial framework and even interinstitutional cooperation. there is a lack of effective dialogue to examine, for example, the role of the european investment bank, the use of surpluses in the categories of expenditure to finance the plans of the european commission. there is no agreement or even dialogue. these guidelines will lead to political decisions which will be reflected in the july conciliation and then will be taken up for first reading. i hope that the rapporteur, mr surján, will receive sufficient support to carry them out, given that he already has the talent, and that he can arrive in december with a very positive result.
mr president, i think that the debate we are having tonight serves to clarify a few things: firstly, the fact that the debate on european private enterprise is being held simultaneously with the debate on the european small enterprise does not mean that the european private enterprise is necessarily a european small enterprise. as mrs van den burg has said and i think mr wurtz has also stressed in his criticism of the proposal, the statute of the european private company, as conceived in the commission's proposal and as approved by the committee on legal affairs, is an instrument for the establishment of companies which can be large and which have certain characteristics, such as the limitation of the liability of the partners and the impossibility of their being traded on public markets. but both the european and the national private company statute can be used for small and large companies. as mrs van den burg has said, it is precisely this flexibility or plasticity of european private society that requires us to be extremely careful. and that has been the work of the committee on legal affairs. the amendments adopted by the committee on legal affairs, which are quite numerous, are aimed precisely at preventing the emergence, as mrs van den burg said, of a european delaware on the basis of the formula of the european private company, especially in one of the areas which concerned mr wurtz, that is, the participation of workers in the company. i think that the formulas adopted by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights clearly indicate these limitations. it is not a question, as mr wurtz said, of applying the country of origin rule, but that, in accordance with the rules we have adopted in the committee on legal affairs - i would recommend mr wurtz to read the amendments we have adopted - there are a number of limitations which prevent the country of origin rules from being applied to those companies in which there is a higher than normal level of worker participation. they are perfectly included in the amendments which we have adopted and i think that with these amendments it would be perfectly permissible to adopt the text, even from mr wurtz's point of view. in other words, it is a form of european company which exists in all our countries and which must be harmonised within the framework of the european union, but in so doing these companies cannot become ethereal entities, but must adhere to national realities and respect national legislation, especially in the very delicate field of worker co-management. i think that the committee on legal affairs has made some fundamental contributions to the text it has adopted and it would certainly be wrong for the commission to ignore these amendments. i believe that the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs are aimed precisely at limiting the shortcomings of the commission's text and i believe that parliament could adopt it in good conscience, not only because of the progress it represents in the field of small enterprises but also in terms of the management of such companies which exist in law and which would be subject to strict control by the workers in a system of co-management.
madam president, small and mediumsized enterprises are the backbone of the european union's economy. their high dynamism and capacity for growth and innovation have earned them a prominent place in union policy. we congratulate mrs herczog, because her report encourages the growth of smes on the basis of a no-nonsense principle: the political and economic actions of the union and its member states must be thought of first on a small scale. the small business act contains legislative proposals and political commitments which will create the administrative, regulatory and financial conditions capable of developing these units of the european economy. the current crisis and the instability of the financial system are limiting the access of smes to credit, which is hampering their normal economic activity. today, more than ever, a coordinated response is needed at european level and the initiatives of the states must be articulated and integrated into the provisions of the document we are discussing today. i conclude by saying that it is particularly relevant to devote eur 30 billion in the period 2009-2011 to providing loans to smes. this initiative is linked to the competitiveness and innovation framework programme and the jeremie initiative and will have a multiplier effect on the funds that will reach smes. we are fully convinced that coordination and a european response are essential to begin the road to economic recovery as soon as possible.
madam president, smes must be more represented in the european union, since they represent 99% of enterprises, 70% of the workforce and almost 60% of european business value added, and they play a key role in european diversity, innovation and cohesion. it is essential to provide them with an integrated framework that fosters entrepreneurship, embraces the principle of thinking first at scale in policy-making and unlocks their enormous potential. the administration must be adapted to their needs and family vocation in order to facilitate their life, their transmission, in particular in cases of illness, retirement or death, and their liquidation. the 23 million smes in europe cannot be subject to the same requirements as the 41 000 large companies. a simpler legislative environment without disproportionate burdens is essential. the european private enterprise statute, initiatives to set up businesses in 48 hours, a 25% reduction in administrative costs by 2012, the single window for vat and reduced rates for labour-intensive services provided at local level, or a common consolidated corporate tax base, all go in this direction. smes should increase their participation in the internal market and in public procurement. at present, only 8% of them have crossborder activities and their share in the public tender is 42%. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. european action to ensure access to finance for smes at an appropriate price is key and vital in these times of crisis. it is also important to intensify knowledge transfer and the effectiveness of support services on a continuous basis.
madam president, we are facing a debate in which, in the final analysis, we must be aware that this is not a legislative norm - and therefore not a community norm applicable to the various member states - but a set of references, of 'benchmarks' to try, from there, to give common guidance to all the member states of the european union in relation to small and mediumsized enterprises. there are many aspects to this matter, but i will mention three of them which i think are certainly substantive: firstly, the need to remove many of the legal barriers, many of the obstacles and much over-regulation which are making it extremely difficult in some countries to set up, to create small businesses, and also to develop these businesses once they are created, because all this requires economic and human resources from them, when dealing with this extraordinary over-regulation, which they cannot allocate to other purposes. secondly, the issues relating to technological innovation and applied research. in this connection, we must also make a greater effort to ensure that smes have access to community programmes which are also often over-regulated. finally, i believe that the relationship between smes and the training sector, the education sector, is fundamental: either smes, small businesses, become the natural setting for complementary training of trainees at the various levels of training, or else we are really losing count, or smes will lose count of the extraordinary resources and the people under training.
opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. madam president, i should first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs herczog, for her report and for the cooperation she has offered to those responsible for the opinions of the other committees. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i would like to mention briefly the three elements which we consider to be essential, although we also have a very broad consensus on other elements which we would like to highlight in the opinion we drafted at the time. firstly, the need to act in the face of the situation which often arises when the entrepreneur retires from the small and mediumsized enterprise. too often, retirement means the end of the activity of these enterprises or, in other cases, absorption by larger companies, which means that they no longer have their small and medium-sized enterprise nature. secondly, the value of training as a key element, both in improving the skills of enterprises and their professionals and in highlighting the social value of enterprises to society at large. finally, i would like to make special reference to women, who continue to experience the greatest difficulties in running such businesses.
the rapporteur. - madam president, at this late hour on monday the commission will probably have other things to worry about than this report. in short, we are merely responding to a report from the commission, a report on the application of council regulation (ec) no 1206/2001 of 28 may 2001 on cooperation between the courts of the member states in the taking of evidence in civil or commercial matters. we are in a field which is really not community, it is an intergovernmental field, in which the council - through the regulation - has tried to stimulate cooperation between these courts. but in doing so, i think there is a certain lack of rigour on the part of the european union. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. i do not know what the commission has achieved or intends to achieve, but i think it is rather difficult to achieve because of the enormous difficulty of this form of intergovernmental cooperation. i mean, we're asking the judicial authorities to collaborate with each other, we're talking about 27 countries, judicial authorities that handle 22 different languages, with very different legal systems from each other, and we're trying to get results. the commission has noted that the results are not good, that there is a huge backlog in these cooperation mechanisms and, of course, that we do not have the means to do so. ideally, we should have material means. for example, what could the commission do to equip the courts, especially lower level courts, with technological elements such as a videoconferencing system? videoconferencing may be a utopia in many small courts across the european union, but it seems to be the only way to do it. i believe that the european union should build on existing institutions, namely the european judicial network. we should strengthen this institution so that the judges themselves, through their cooperation systems, could develop this type of communication. on the other hand, all training of judges is fundamental. this is something the commission cannot do by itself either. but the commission can encourage the development of such courses, training in community law and knowledge of the different legal systems. there is also a huge difficulty, the problem of languages, that is, how can a spanish judge communicate with a finnish judge with two such different languages? it is not possible to expect that judges, in addition to having to deal with their own law, which is already quite complex, are obliged to have knowledge of this kind of thing. what can we do in practice to make interpretation and translation easier for judges? what could we do to help them do that? in presenting this report, i do not want to appear to be rigorous or harsh with the commission. i think the job is pretty tough. what i would like to know, given that we have a commissioner here who is interested in this subject, is what the commission thinks can be done to make this regulation of 2001, which is a little vague, a little voluntary and which i do not know whether, from a practical point of view, it can have any consequences or can be made to go ahead with it, more rigorous.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, thank you for a very substantive report on the commission’s proposal for a recast of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 regarding public access to documents. this is a very important and cherished subject and i appreciate the enormous work that has been done by mr cashman, as rapporteur, and also many other active, interested and skilled people in this house. this is a subject that touches upon fundamental and sometimes conflicting rights of citizens, associations and undertakings. we need to look very carefully at the necessary changes to be made to this regulation and we need to remain focused on openness. all three institutions have agreed that, overall, regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 has worked remarkably well for almost eight years now. parliament, council and commission are much more open now than ever before. you could say that the change of rules led to a change of practice and to a change of minds and attitudes. at the same time, parliament, council and commission also agree that legitimate interests have received adequate protection. we should not forget that the eu institutions have granted access to a higher number of documents, while a decrease in the number and rate of refusals has been registered. so i hope you agree that regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 has proven its value. for this reason a complete overhaul is not necessary. having said this, even a good tool can always be improved. the legal base we have as our starting point is article 255 of the treaty, as has already been mentioned by the rapporteur. following that, the regulation shall define principles and the limits governing the citizen’s right of access to documents. as regards the report at hand, i note that some amendments go beyond the scope of article 255 of the treaty and therefore these amendments cannot be accepted. but – and this is an important ‘but’ – they point to important issues that may well be addressed in another context. the commission will certainly look at that with a constructive, pragmatic and open mind. it is good practice to assess from time to time whether legislation works well and achieves its objectives, and it is in this spirit that the commission drafted its proposal for a recast of the regulation. the use of the recast technique meets the objective of better lawmaking. since this regulation touches upon a fundamental right of citizens, it is of the utmost importance to adopt a single, clear and readable legal text. the recast technique does not tie the hands of the legislator more than the traditional way of amending legislation. irrespective of the choice of legislative technique, the community legislator may not go beyond the aim of the proposal. we are committed to continuing to enhance transparency and openness, and i firmly believe that this is a good way to do it. in this context, however, i have to mention that a number of the amendments concern provisions of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 which the commission did not propose to amend. we are not in a position to accept them because they go beyond the scope of the commission’s proposal. having said this, the commission is, of course, willing to take on board good ideas, although we are at the moment still in the early stages of the procedure. i would like to confirm that the commission is willing to have discussions with the two co-legislators and that we want to try to find common ground in order to reach a balanced and workable compromise text. however, the commission prefers to come forward with an amended proposal when the two co-legislators have stated their position. we cannot and will not prejudge or anticipate discussions or negotiations. we should also bear in mind the changes that the lisbon treaty – if and when it enters into force – will bring about on this important issue. regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 will then apply to all institutions, bodies, agencies and offices of the european union, albeit to a limited extent for the court of justice, the european central bank and the european investment bank. for citizens, the lisbon treaty will mean real progress when all eu bodies will apply a common set of rules on access to documents. such a single set of rules ensures consistency, but at the same time it must be tailored to fit the great number of bodies with very different mandates and competences. i would also like to repeat what i have said on previous occasions in this house and elsewhere. regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 is the cornerstone of a policy on transparency, but we also need to think about what we can do proactively outside the formal legislation. that is why i announced at the joint committee meeting of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of 20 january that i am taking the initiative to prepare an openness action plan. improved registers, greater user-friendliness and accessibility, active dissemination, and quicker publishing of documents are some examples of what i want to address in this action plan and, of course, continue to discuss with the other eu institutions. this is a pragmatic and efficient way to mainstream transparency into all our policies. we need to lead by example. in this spirit, we should also look at ways to make our institutions and the way they operate more understandable to citizens. we need an active policy of informing citizens and making them aware of how europe-wide policies affect their everyday life. regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 is, of course, an important tool but, beyond the legal text, it is how we put this into practice that really counts. to sum up the commission’s position on mr cashman’s report at this stage of the procedure, i would like to say the following. there are some amendments the commission cannot accept because they go beyond the legal base of article 255 of the treaty. there are other amendments we cannot accept because they go beyond the scope of the commission’s proposed changes, but in some cases such amendments nevertheless point to important issues that may well be addressed in another context. also, the commission is always willing to take on board good ideas in whatever context it may be. once we have parliament’s and the council’s positions, you will have the position from the third corner in the institutional triangle. i look forward to an interesting and thought-provoking discussion to come. the subject deserves that, and our citizens are entitled to expect clear and well-functioning legislation on public access to our documents.
opinion of the committee on petitions - mr president, commissioner, in the face of this excellent report we should not miss the opportunity to reach agreement at first reading - i mean, in this parliament - to create legislation that moves towards transparency in access to documents. there is no need for excuses, and i hope we will have the time and the wisdom to reach such an agreement on this excellent report. in the report, and on behalf of the committee on petitions, we express our concern that in infringement proceedings against a member state, for example a procedure initiated by a citizen's petition, a member state has the right to refuse access to public documents used in that infringement procedure, thus closing the door to citizen participation. we are also quite concerned about the lack of interoperability and the technical blockage in the european parliament in the use of interoperable documents, documents with open standards which are not compatible with the software, with the technical platform that the european parliament is using at the moment, which is from a single company. it is true that the european institutions do not at present guarantee citizens real access to the content of documents without technical discrimination. this is unacceptable, because it is not possible to access the documents we are creating. as i speak right now, you cannot access these words without a technical platform from a particular company that establishes a monopoly on information. this is contrary to transparency and access to information.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the erics are not used as a means of financing the community's external policies. the feeling that accompanies me at this moment is, without a doubt, that of satisfaction, which i think we all share in having made this journey together. we are thus writing a new chapter in the history of europe by making it a safer place on our seas. we must remember that the erika iii package is aimed at protecting our seas and is the result, as you all know, of the terrible black tides of the erika and the prestige, which seriously affected the coasts of southern europe. we have drawn the lessons of our past and the need to act immediately to prevent such things from happening again on their terms. europe cannot underestimate the strategic value of maritime transport for its economy: 90% of the european union's external trade is carried by sea, as is 40% of our intra-community trade. this explains the european union's decades-long effort to legislate on maritime transport. it has not been, as i say, a path of roses: quite the contrary, because although we were all united by a common objective, the council's attitude, which was in principle to heal, made the path difficult. in the same vein, i should like to commend, because it is right, the firm political will shown by the french presidency to close this important issue. it is also worth noting the decisive role played by vice-president tajani, who was the driving force behind the final consensus. last but not least, i would like to stress the strength of this house in defending european interests and protecting the citizens we represent. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment. ladies and gentlemen, there has been one point during the negotiations which has been of great concern to me, because it touches on an essential aspect of the package. i am referring to the independence of the bodies and authorities set up to take the best decisions in the shortest possible time. i am speaking specifically of the independent authority that will be created for the ever so difficult decision to take a ship in distress to a place of refuge. i welcome the final decision taken, ladies and gentlemen, and it is the case that each member state will set up an independent authority with the necessary resources and capacity to take the best decisions in the shortest possible time. only after a detailed assessment of all the risks has been carried out will the authority finally decide whether to take the vessel in or to remove it. in this respect, i must acknowledge mr sterckx's tenacity in this difficult undertaking with which he has had to deal. i also welcome the progress made in the monitoring of vessels, which is essential to reduce risk situations. the report by mrs vlasto, whom i congratulate on her excellent report, i would like to highlight the substantial improvement which will be made in relation to the current inspection regime in community ports, making it more effective by being based on a risk profile. i would like to thank mr kohlicek for his willingness to engage in dialogue and for the good work he has done. i would also like to highlight the ambitious proposal on passenger rights, which have not been regulated by community law until now, thanks to the impetus shown by mr costa until the last second. as regards the savary and fernandes reports, i am very pleased that the council finally decided to abandon that obstructionist position which was not leading to anything good, which allowed for a solution, albeit a minimal one. in any case, we should be happy that the package is complete. finally, i would like to speak about my report, which, after being examined by the council, was divided into two legal instruments. the key points of my report can be summed up as follows: with this fourth revision of community legislation governing the activities of inspection bodies, we have succeeded in strengthening the monitoring mechanisms by creating an independent evaluation committee with permanent powers and autonomy of action. we have also succeeded in establishing a system of sanctions which is more flexible and fair and, in the end, more effective than the previous one, since it sanctions those who do not act as they should, but it does so in accordance with the seriousness of the infringement committed and the economic capacity of the organisation. finally, we have made progress on a thorny issue such as the recognition of certificates of classification, by setting out the conditions under which recognised organisations will have to recognise each other, without jeopardising maritime safety and by taking as a reference the most demanding rules to safeguard the parameters of excellence that define our european industry in the shipping industry.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i have just made a good run for the house. i was listening to vice-president tajani in my office, as well as the other speakers, and i cannot but congratulate all the rapporteurs and the commission. i would also like to express my appreciation, as mr tajani did, for the work done by commissioner barrot, which was very important, and for the goodwill shown by the french presidency. this maritime package - and i want to say it here - will bring about a decisive change in europe. a shift in favour of the quality of the maritime sector and its transparency. i think it will be a guarantee that we will never again witness the spectacle of opacity that we have seen in the past, after these two serious accidents of the erika and the prestige, the opacity that surrounded the prestige accident, and in this sense the report by mr kohlicek, of which i am the shadow rapporteur, is a guarantee, the guarantee that investigations in the maritime sector will be able to be carried out with total transparency and that public opinion and also the public authorities will know what has been behind or what has happened after each accident so that the same events can never be repeated again and so that what has been done wrong can be corrected. europe must go further in this area and our work, i am sure, will not end here, because we have always been leaders and also because maritime traffic will continue to increase.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be able to conclude this parliamentary term with the final approval of the last of the maritime packages. however, i remember that when i came to the european parliament in 1999, we had a major maritime accident - the erika ship - off the french coast, which gave rise to a first set of legislative proposals to prevent and prevent accidents. we thought we had averted danger, but soon afterward the coasts of galicia were ruined by the chappopotamus from another accident even greater than the first, that of the prestige. since then, in the committee on transport and tourism, we have worked on successive legislative packages, trying to overcome the too much resistance we encountered from shipowners, oil companies, classification societies, and also from certain member states who rejected the three proposals as being too demanding. in these ten years we have adopted various directives and regulations, some of which we have had to revise because, as a result of the cuts made by the council, they were not effective in their first version. we have approved the rules for the introduction of double-hull vessels, a european fund for major oil disasters, safe havens, and we are now reviewing and approving the liability of passenger shipping companies, the investigation of maritime accidents, the community system for monitoring and reporting on maritime traffic, port state control and finally the regulation and directives on ship inspection and survey organizations. and all this is good and desirable if it can come into force and be applied by all the member states as soon as possible. that makes me feel satisfied. but the legislature is over, i am leaving parliament and i am sorry that i have not succeeded in making it compulsory to introduce the control systems which already exist and are patented to know when and how much waste from bilge tanks and fuel tanks has been illegally dumped at sea by a given ship. that is, a kind of black box or tachometer that can be inspected by maritime authorities every time a ship arrives in port. i believe we owe the marine environment better attention and more stringent procedures to tackle as much pollution as we produce and that if we do not do so, it will affect our food chain and our lives and make us pay a high price for it. i hope that it will not take another ten years for you to control illegal marine dumping more effectively and efficiently.
thank you, mr. ortuondo. i'll see you in a bit. i am sure that your efforts will be remembered in this house, and i am sure that wherever you are, you will continue to fight for the objectives you leave behind here, perhaps unfinished but very advanced thanks to your efforts.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i believe that in the debate which has taken place in this house, in the general satisfaction of having been able to adopt council, parliament and commission rules which give concrete answers to the citizens, one question has emerged above all: i am not sure that the commissioner will be able to say whether he will be able to accept the amendments which have been tabled. will the commission be able to monitor? will the agency be able to cooperate well with the commission in monitoring the application of these rules? i refer to the whole of the comments made both during the debate - i am thinking of mr jarzembowski, mr romagnoli - and also to the letters sent to the commission in the course of these months by mr sterckx and mr simpson, which raised this issue. i believe that i can confirm the commitment of the commission, which has been very keen to see this package approved, to ensure that this package is respected by the member states. i intend to use the cooperation of the agency - an institution which i believe has always worked well and which is doing its best to support the commission and also to support the member states - in implementing this legislation and other legislation. i visited the agency's headquarters in lisbon and found excellent cooperation, a great deal of willingness, i would even say a strong commitment, enthusiasm to apply all the regulations, to ensure, through the safety system, the safe sea net and also all the other most advanced technological instruments, to give a hand to the citizens so that they see the union's rules applied in practice. and since the legislation confers a certain competence on the commission, as you know, the commission can call on the agency to help it in carrying out technical tasks. as jacques barrot and i have done before, i intend to continue in this direction, to avail myself of the cooperation of an agency which i consider to be efficient, well-run, full of people of good will who believe in the work they do. this applies, for example, to inspections to verify the correct application of the rules or the implementation of traffic monitoring information systems. on this last point, i would like to stress the crucial role of the agency - and i am also particularly addressing mr sterckx - in the implementation of the safe sea net, the european platform for the exchange of data on shipping traffic, and in the establishment of the european centre for the long-distance identification and verification of ships. these tasks are in line with the agency's regulation, although they are not explicitly mentioned, because the last amendment dates back to 2004, but they will certainly be with the next revision of the regulation that is being prepared. the fact that these specific tasks are not mentioned in the specific directives or regulations has no bearing on the allocation of roles between the commission and the agency. i would like to reassure parliament by this reply that the commission is willing and determined to implement the rules we are adopting with the support of the agency. it would be pointless to say to the citizens: "we have done something positive for you" if we are not able to apply and enforce this positive something. we must remember that the member states, represented by the council, are an integral part of this agreement, they are co-legislators together with all of us, so i believe that the member states will apply the rules we are approving, but certainly the commission will see to it that this commitment is respected and maintained and we will do so with the technical assistance of the agency.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i think we have come to the end and it is worth congratulating everyone on having reached this point after such a long journey. i believe that if there is ever a justification for the codecision procedure, it is in the case of this package and its procedure. the need to bring the commission, the council and parliament together is the key to this package, in which parliament did very well - and today it is more justified than ever - to take the lead and to press for it to be considered an inexcusable package, in which we did not admit from the outset any kind of bankruptcy, any kind of separation in order to achieve a whole that was capable of guaranteeing safety at sea. i think we are in a position to know that in the future there are guarantees that the political measures of the economic situation are unnecessary. we will thus avoid embarrassing situations where those who have criticized the attitudes of some governments, when they are themselves in government, have to praise the attitudes of others. the fact that in future the major decisions will be taken by independent committees which, with rigor, authority, immediacy and capacity, will have decision-making instruments at their disposal is what guarantees rigor and fair and equitable decisions. because here, in this package, we have had to balance many things: we have had to combine the classification societies with the marine teams; we have had to put all the interests clearly on the table and, above all, parliament has had to exercise its leadership. i think we should be pleased that parliament has taken such a lead and can be proud to say loud and clear at this time that the european union has not waited for imo, the international maritime organisation, but has gone ahead. we had that obligation and we didn't have to wait for anyone. i think we are in the case of congratulating ourselves, of having hope for the future so that things do not happen again and of learning the lesson of the past.
mr president, i would simply like to add to what mr jarzembowski has just said that we also thank him as chairman of the temporary committee on the strengthening of maritime safety, which is responsible for shedding light on the prestige case, which in a way was at the origin of everything we have discussed here today. and since we may have lost track of mr jarzembowski, i would like to say that we will always remember the capacity he showed in that committee.
mrs ayala, we of course join in the president's congratulations and wishes of happiness and success to the man who has been a very effective president. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by mr saïd el khadraoui, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 1999/62/ec on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures (com ((2008) 0436 - c6-0276/2008 - 2008/0147 (cod)) (a6-0066/2009) and - the report by mr georg jarzembowski, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the integration of environmental interests in the transport sector and the internalisation of external costs (2008/2240 (ini)) (a6-0055/2009).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, we have also reached the end of a debate on a subject which i undertook, when i won the confidence of parliament, to bring to the attention of this house with the aim of not imposing a new tax on european citizens and the proof of the commission's intention not to impose a new tax is that the new eurovignette is optional and above all that the funds raised will not be allocated generically to the budget of the various member states but will be aimed at intervening in a particular area, namely pollution, the internalisation of external costs and the construction of roads and safer infrastructure. i would like to thank parliament for its commitment to the greening package, particularly with regard to the revision of the eurovignette directive and the draft voted by the committee on transport on the basis of mr el khadraoui's work, it sends a strong signal to the member states in that it proposes a more flexible framework which legally authorises the adoption of new instruments to combat the negative effects in the transport sector and, at the same time, to the stakeholders in the sector, in that it shows the political will to progressively encourage fair and effective charging of infrastructure use on the basis of the polluter pays principle and not just at the expense of the taxpayer. in my view, the opinion adopted by the commission, which is under discussion today, strengthens the commission's proposal on a number of essential points. i think about the allocation of resources: the amendments proposed are consistent with the line we have proposed, which is to defend the allocation of revenue from tolls and to reduce the externality of road transport, and i think i can support them. as for the type of externalities to be considered, no to co2 but yes to taking congestion into account. a modulated congestion charge is more effective in combating climate change than a flat-rate co2 tax. it is essential for the economic efficiency of road transport; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, great care will be needed to ensure that the final result is an encouragement to states rather than a deterrent and does not impose conditions which are too complicated to manage. i have some reservations, however, about a specific amendment concerning sensitive mountain areas. the commission proposal already authorizes a factor which multiplies the costs of pollution in these areas, the so-called correction factor for the mountains. the fact that this multiplier is simply allowed to be combined with the existing surcharge, which was decided in 2006 to finance the large alpine tunnels, amounts to double pricing and seems to me to be an obstacle to the completion of the single market. that's where my concerns come from. i now turn to mr jarzembowski's report on the communication accompanying the directive. he also made this clear in his speech. mr jarzembowski was very critical of the commission's position: we sometimes disagree after so many years of working together. the report is obviously critical. i shall try to concentrate on two points in particular, two points which i consider important. i would like to stress, on the one hand, that the commission has carried out an impact assessment covering all modes of transport and analysing the effects of the various internalization options. this analysis is, in my view, the basis for the internalisation strategy proposed by the commission itself. on the other hand, the commission has proposed a common framework for internalisation based on a principle which covers all modes of transport and takes account of past initiatives. it is a pragmatic approach, which respects the acquis communautaire and takes account of the proposals recently adopted - i am thinking of the ets in the field of aviation and the international agreements on aviation, the maritime sector and inland waterways. of course, it is open to debate whether the commission's proposals go far enough or not far enough, but i must insist that the commission has tackled the issues it was asked to deal with, namely an integrated plan to make transport more environmentally friendly, accompanied by concrete legislative proposals. i would like to conclude by saying that the commission and parliament agree on one thing: the need to take legislative action on the problem of noise pollution in the railway sector. the commission will present its proposals as part of the review of the first railway package, which is due to be adopted in the autumn. we shall of course be inspired by your proposals on this matter.
thank you, mr tajani. you will have seen from your dealings with mr jarzembowski how right old marx was in explaining how the institutional position of one or the other also determines the political position on the various issues.
ladies and gentlemen, i have to read to you a communication from the presidency which says that at its meeting on monday 9 march the committee on foreign affairs adopted a motion for a resolution on the deterioration of the humanitarian situation in sri lanka and, in view of the alarming situation, asked that the motion for a resolution be placed on the agenda of this part-session, in accordance with rule 91. the motion for a resolution will be deemed to have been adopted unless at least 40 members table their objections in writing before 12 noon tomorrow, in which case it will be included in this part-session for debate and vote.
we are continuing the debate on the reports by mr el khadraoui and mr jarzembowski on the transport sector.
mr president, i would like to express our deep disappointment, also on behalf of the socialist banks - albeit geographically peripheral - at the inopportune nature of this text. first, because it was not yet the time. without even having assessed the second euro-vignette - which has only been in operation for six months - we have opened, shall we say, another new dossier. and also because, in the depths of a brutal economic and social financial crisis which has devastated the activity of freight transport, it seems a bad joke to propose now a measure which necessarily entails an increase in the cost of goods circulating especially in the countries of the european periphery, which are precisely those most affected by unemployment and which have no alternatives: neither railways nor motorways of the sea. because they don't exist and, moreover, there is no will at the border. secondly, because the european parliament has historically called for internalization for all media and not just for the one that already has a crossborder burden. we asked the commission to make a real creative effort to achieve an intermodal solidarity system and thus maintain consistency in our european commitment to a co-modal logistics chain and this text contradicts this in its partiality. and finally, because i think it is not fair to tell the citizens that this instrument will solve the congestion for good, the congestion they suffer from every day. if it were real, the first to ask for this instrument would be the road haulage sector itself, since it is already paying for the delays in congestion in the city centre. the rapporteur proposes a transaction which is laudable for its ingenuity, but which contains a clear legal weakness which, although the commission is aware of it, it denies, not to mention the confusing message we send to the citizens by establishing european rules whose application is left to the free will of the member states. that said, it was not the right time and it is an incomplete instrument that is not very supportive, at least of the periphery.
mr president, the revision of the euro-vignette directive is a matter of great importance and concerns us all, especially the peripheral countries, which feel that they are victims of this proposal. the european commission has decided to tackle the internalisation of the external costs of road transport by allocating three new costs: air pollution, noise pollution and congestion. while the principles behind the 'who uses, pays' and 'who pollutes, pays' proposals are reasonable, the proposed solution is not, and will be discriminatory for a sector that has been suffering for months from the disastrous effects of the economic crisis. demonising road haulage, although not the goal, has turned out to be the end. this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is ill-timed and, far from achieving the expected objectives of sustainable transport, would be the death sentence for a large number of european small and mediumsized enterprises which employ thousands of people in the european union and contribute daily to the distribution of goods, ensuring that the products reach their final consumer, a consumer who will see how their products become more expensive as a result of the application of these taxes. ladies and gentlemen, we need a competitive, sustainable and environmentally friendly transport system, without neglecting the road, because today it is the only way to get everywhere. modal change is still a dream, far from reality. the transeuropean networks, the motorways of the sea and cross-border links are still, in some cases, projects and not realities. ladies and gentlemen, when the 'titanic' of the world economy is sinking, it is not possible to ask the orchestra to keep playing, much less for joy.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, the case we're debating is a significant one and it's part of the overall economic situation. you also know very well that the strategy which the commission is formulating is a certain industrial policy, because the commission is convinced that industry as such will always form an essential part of our economy, that it is a bearer of high technology. it is clear that the crisis we are in has structural elements, which is why the commission formulates in its strategies and founding documents both the future green economy, 'green jobs', as well as the very high pressure on innovation and modernisation. it is also clear, as i stated at the outset, that an economic decision is simply a business decision and the commission does not intervene in these matters. it is quite another thing, however, that when certain restructuring is taking place, when certain decisions are being taken with social and societal implications, there are instruments and european policies which we are of course always obliged to mobilise and which we are also mobilising. as for the double approach, to be able to see the situation on the spot; of course i'm prepared to do that, because it's a normal and basic duty to make choices based on possibility. the possibilities within the european funds have been mentioned, the approaches discussed between the portuguese government and the government of the federal republic of germany have been mentioned, but in any event i can state and i can assure you that the commission is always making active use of all the possibilities at its disposal and that it will do so in this case and no doubt in others that will arise.
that is a valid point.
the next item is the debate on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean (com (2009) 0093 - c6-0081/2009 - 2009/0029 (cns)).
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to stress the importance that the commission attaches to the sustainability of the bluefin tuna stocks and fisheries, and also the importance of the european parliament in this process. within the framework of the 2006 recovery plan for eastern bluefin tuna and on the basis of an evaluation of its implementation during the 2006, 2007 and 2008 fishing seasons and in the light of new scientific advice, iccat decided to adopt a new recovery plan. the iccat scientific committee clearly indicated its view that the 2006 recovery plan was insufficient to recover the stock and reiterated its concerns with respect to the level of tac and excess of fishing effort. furthermore, iccat contracting parties identified certain failures in the implementation of the 2006 plan and so decided to adopt a new plan. this plan addresses the concerns of the scientific committee, notably by reducing the tac level and by introducing new measures to address fishing and farming capacity. it should also be noted that, at the initiative of the european community, the new recovery plan introduced the obligation for annual fishing plans at iccat level. this is an effective instrument to avoid overfishing by identifying the vessels that are over 24 metres fishing for bluefin tuna and setting their individual quotas. i am convinced that the establishment of the annual fishing plan is a key tool in ensuring the full respect of the quota. the new recovery plan also improves the existing one and introduces new control measures to address those failures identified by the contracting parties, to which philippe morillon referred. the main measures introduced in the new recovery plan are a substantial reduction in the tac from 27 500 to 22 000 tonnes in 2009 and further reductions to 19 950 tonnes for 2010 and 18 500 tonnes in 2011. the ec quota for 2009 is thus reduced to 12 406 tonnes from the 15 641 tonnes foreseen in the 2006 plan. the fishing seasons for all years are reduced, in particular for purse seiners, which account for the bulk of this fishery. the measures to freeze and reduce fishing and farming capacity are a brand new and decisive component of the new plan. overcapacity has been identified for some time as a key driver of overfishing. now is the time to address this issue in a real manner and the community, like other iccat members, has to share in the effort to do so. the introduction of the fishing plans i have already mentioned is another measure. furthermore, the derogations to minimum size are adjusted. on the atlantic, pelagic trawlers no longer benefit from derogations, while the derogations applicable to the artisanal coastal fishery have been removed, except for one case. indeed, only bait boats still benefit from previous derogations. in the mediterranean, the artisanal coastal fishery now benefits from a derogation. the control measures are reinforced, in particular as regards joint fishing operations, the adoption of a general prohibition of transhipment at sea and the introduction of a regional iccat observer programme. in conclusion, the situation of the eastern bluefin tuna is considered to be extremely serious. the overshooting of quotas, the lack of compliance, notably as regards data collection and transmission, undermine the recovery process. however, i am confident that our agreement to urgently adopt measures to eliminate overfishing and to ensure strict compliance with iccat measures can turn around the situation and bring the bluefin tuna stock to sustainable levels. we need to ensure that situations similar to those that occurred last year do not happen again in the future. the best means to achieve this is the speedy adoption by the council of the new recovery plan for bluefin tuna. any delay in the adoption of this regulation should, therefore, be avoided, especially if we want to ensure the credibility of the community at international level and to promote the process of the recovery of this stock. i am convinced that, if this plan is fully respected, it represents a realistic chance for the gradual recovery of bluefin tuna. consequently, decisive and effective action is immediately needed at the european community level. after its adoption, the commission is resolved to work closely with the member states and with other iccat contracting parties to ensure and closely monitor the full implementation of the recovery plan. finally, i wish to express my appreciation for the constructive approach and the cooperation adopted by the european parliament in dealing with this sensitive subject, reflecting our shared interest and commitment to ensuring that the community fisheries policy and our international obligations are fully respected.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. but i would also like to remind you that no recovery plan is going to save bluefin tuna unless fishing capacity is reduced, starting with the capacity of some community fleets, well known and noted for years on this subject, years in which the states concerned have allowed their vessels to multiply to scandalous limits in the face of the european commission's passivity, which has brought us to this almost hopeless situation. when the current recovery plan was adopted in 2007, i tabled an amendment, accepted by this house and incorporated by the commission into its final text, to oblige member states to submit fishing plans demonstrating that the capacity of their fleet is in line with the quota allocated. however, in 2008 we had to close the fisheries again early, even earlier than the previous year, when we found that in just a few weeks almost the entire community quota had been used up, in other words we were even worse off. article 5 of the new recovery plan now obliges member states with excess capacity to eliminate at least 25% of it by 2010. not only do i find the reduction incredibly mild for the excesses committed, but in the light of the precedent i am extremely concerned about the ability of the commission and the international convention for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccaa) to enforce this obligation in the face of the obvious lack of political will more than demonstrated by the member states involved. i therefore ask and request the commissioner to give us assurances here that this lack of political will will not be passed on to the commission and that this time the commission will act firmly, beyond a new early closure of fisheries this spring.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the proposal for a council regulation establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean implements the binding decision adopted by consensus by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccaa) at its annual meeting in november 2008. this regulation - as has already been said - must enter into force before the start of the fishing season in april, which means that this mandatory consultation of the european parliament is taking place in this plenary session, and we are anxious to contribute to the achievement of a political agreement in the council as soon as possible on this matter which we consider to be of the utmost importance and deserves our utmost consideration. the committee on fisheries of the european parliament therefore unanimously voted in favour of urgency. the annual fishing plans, the reduction of the fishing season, the reinforcement of the control system, the spawning areas in the mediterranean and the presence of iccat observers in the hake fisheries and tuna farms covered by the regulation are intended - and i think they will succeed - to ensure compliance with the management measures adopted and to ensure traceability at all stages. each contracting party - and i think it is important to point out this - will have to submit a fishing plan for fishing vessels and traps fishing for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean, identifying, among other things, the authorized catching vessels over 24 metres and the measures established, in order to ensure that the individual quota is not exceeded. it is also important that the measures adopted include a reduction in the fishing season by extending the closure periods for purse seiners, longliners, live bait vessels and curry-canal vessels, pelagic trawlers and recreational fisheries. the adjustment plans for countries with excess fleets and farms for fattening bluefin tuna are also important. i have read a great deal about tuna these days, and i should like to make a few points in the short time i have left. the commission has also proposed that the fishing fleet be reduced to a minimum, and that the fishing fleet be reduced to a maximum of 100 000 tonnes. the european union, or three member states (france, spain and italy), together account for half of the world's bluefin tuna catches. it is therefore essential that the european union is able to provide the iccat with statistics of the same quality as the fisheries or the fishing effort involved, not least because statistics are essential if research is to be carried out to meet the needs or questions posed by the biology and ecology of bluefin tuna today, which are a real challenge for scientific research. if we want to save this species, we need to know it better. that is why i think that everything that concerns data collection and statistics is particularly important.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the time has come to speak out. i think we're not looking at a recovery plan, but clearly what we might call a death certificate. the lack of political responsibility on the part of some governments and the commission, together with a certain blindness on the part of some in the sector, has led us to a scenario in which, rather than asking whether or not we can recover stocks, we have to ask ourselves when we will stop seeing and finding tuna in our seas and oceans. and i'm not talking about a decade, i'm talking about a lifetime at the most. in that context, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas should actually be called the international commission for the catch of all tuna. governments and the commission have ignored the scientific advice that has been warning of the collapse again and again and hoping for a political reaction that has never come. the consequence of this attitude - we must not deceive ourselves - is a further step towards the abyss. at this point, i am afraid that we have few solutions left to save the tuna, but there is one we can still use: working to ensure that tuna is included in the cites convention list as an endangered species and thus, at least by prohibiting its marketing, guarantee its future.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank members for their comments and the points that have been raised in this debate, and also for accepting the request for urgency. as i stated at the start, the measures agreed in marrakesh need to be transposed as soon as possible in order to apply from the start of this fishing season. this year will clearly be a test of our ability to demonstrate our commitment to the sustainability of this endemic stock. i cannot emphasise enough the crucial importance for all contracting parties, not least our own fishers, to respect the newly-agreed measures. this is the only way to provide a chance for the survival of the stock. not respecting the new recovery plan will have serious consequences and will lead to a collapse of the stock. on the point that was raised by mrs fraga estévez, i cannot agree more that, for the recovery plan to succeed, we need to bring about a reduction of capacity, in particular of the purse seine fleet, which is the one which causes most pressures on the bluefin tuna stock. in this regard, i would like to refer to the fact that last year we had agreed on a restructuring package which was triggered because of the fuel crisis and we are encouraging member states to make use of this restructuring package in order to bring about a reduction of the fleet, in particular of the purse seine fleet. we are hearing some encouraging news with regard to one particular member state, france, which is undertaking to encourage certain fishers to decommission their vessels in order to bring about a reduction of capacity. we need to see this happening also in the other member states such as italy in particular which suffers from a significant overcapacity. we are therefore at this present moment engaging in discussions with the italian authorities in order to see whether they can effect something in this regard in the very short term. i need to underline the fact that last year we closed the fishery early so as not to come under any pressure from any member state or any group of member states. we closed the fishery early: immediately when, according to our own calculations, the overall community quota was exhausted. this year, also as a result of the annual fishing plans that have been agreed on the community’s insistence in marrakesh, we are prepared to close the fishery early with regard to particular member states. if the fleet of a particular member state overshoots its quota, we will not hesitate to close the fishery for that particular member state. in that way, only the fleet of that member state will suffer the consequences of its overshooting, and not the fleet of the whole community. i hope that will be enough to fine-tune our action even further during the course of the fishing season. if we do not deliver on this new recovery plan, then in the years to come we will have to face the serious consequence that the whole fishery should not open at all in the coming years. i hope that we will be able to deliver on this plan. therefore i do not agree, regrettably, with what mr romeva i rueda said that the recovery plan is a death certificate. i think that the recovery plan, if properly implemented, gives us a realistic and reasonable chance to see to it that the stock does recover. the fact that we have reduced quotas from 15 641 tonnes to 12 406 tonnes in 2009, the fact that by virtue of what we are discussing today and by virtue of the council decision that hopefully will be taken later in the month, the fact that we are going to implement the marrakesh recovery plan adopted in november, from this very fishing season, is indicative of the fact that we mean business. we are not prepared to accept any abuse of the fishing possibilities that are based on what was agreed in marrakesh. we have not waited for the natural implementation of the marrakesh agreement, which would have come too late in the fishing season for bluefin tuna; we have decided to have all the parameters of the marrakesh plan introduced from the very start. i hope that these will be properly adhered to because in that way we will be able together to recover this endemic stock. if not, however, then next year we will have to speak another language.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 march 2009 at 12 noon.
the committee on budgets' rapporteur for the opinion. - mr president, on behalf of the committee on budgets, we would like to point out that this economic recovery plan has a much more intergovernmental than community dimension and that it shows the real financial limits of the european union. we are going to use, from the community point of view, 30 000 million euros which will be practically mobilised by the european investment bank, and we are facing major problems in the part which strictly belongs to the community budget of 5 000 million. there are no new resources, but what is happening is a redistribution of existing resources. as for the european investment bank, we are in full agreement that it should be used, but we must point out that we are concerned because we are entrusting it with many obligations without having any guarantee that it can carry them out. finally, we regret the council's inability to reach agreement on the 5 billion euro for energy interconnections and rural broadband. we believe that the unused margins should not be used, but that the european commission and the council should instead use the resources provided for in the interinstitutional agreement itself.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the best tribute we can pay to jean monnet is to act with unity, with determination and with perseverance, as he did in organising the logistical effort during the two world wars, the effort of the allies which enabled the war to be won. that means that the 27 of us must act together. the socialists insist that this implies three priority actions: on the one hand, to strengthen our stimulus plan, to relaunch the budgetary field and also the field of supervision and the organization of europe. secondly, to make the solidarity between the 27 a reality. i do not know whether the czech government and parliament, which are sitting on the treaty of lisbon, are aware that the word 'solidarity' appears for the first time in article 2 of the treaty of lisbon. and thirdly, to fight against the black holes of globalisation which are tax havens.
member of the commission. − madam president, i wish to thank all the speakers for their valuable contributions. this shows that your contributions can be very helpful, because already some very important points have been made. these include, for example, the question of how we can create the right work environment for workers in order to keep them in their home countries and, also, how we address the very serious problem of the brain drain. i was in liberia last week and was shocked to hear that for a population of 3 million they have only 150 doctors. the rest of their doctors are all in the united states of america. this is a very big problem – not only for third world countries, but also within the european union, as there is a very serious brain drain from the east to the west. we have to see how we might possibly encourage health workers and health professionals to stay in their home countries. in order to do that, we have to create better work conditions for them. formal care cannot be addressed without taking into account the need for, and the capacity for, informal care, which we indeed reconcile in the green paper. mrs sinnott raised the very important question of how to train more people and offer people more opportunities to train. that is the other side of the coin. on the one hand we want more health workers, but on the other hand we do not have the capacity to train them. all these are very important questions which we shall be able to answer and give solutions to once we collect all the important comments that you and other stakeholders make on the green paper. at the end of the process we hope we will arrive at some solutions to the problem before it becomes truly insurmountable.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to convey the apologies of my colleague, louis michel, for not being able to be here in person, as he is in the congo. however, it is with great pleasure that i will take up the points, because they are so important. the commission fully agrees that water and sanitation service provision is naturally addressed at the local level, through local government, municipalities and communities. we have to recognise, however, that weaknesses exist between those different levels, most notably in weaker countries where the provision of basic services is not a strong priority. last year, the european development days here in strasbourg focused on the role of local authorities, who are at the heart of access to essential services, as well as on the importance of local governance and the participation of citizens. this is obviously a central issue for the water sector and the commission, through its different instruments, is working to increase support to local authorities and reinforce partnerships between local actors from the north and the south. at eu level, european water policy is also based on the principle of good governance, encouraging the involvement and participation of citizens, local communities, ngos and stakeholders. this is reflected not only in the water framework directive but also in initiatives such as the eu water initiative launched at the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg, which contains the reinforcement of the role of local actors among its objectives. in africa, where the millennium development goals linked to water and sanitation are still not on track, investments need to increase, and the commission has demonstrated its political commitment by creating a financial mechanism. the water facility of half a billion euros has enabled mobilisation of double that amount through cofinancing of a large number of programmes to improve the water, sanitation and hygiene situation of millions of people. it has also improved water governance and management in acp countries. the focus on the involvement of local actors has been one of the added values of this facility. the eu will be represented at the ministerial segment of the world water forum by the current czech presidency. the statement that is being prepared includes references to the need for good governance through capacity development and institutional reform at all levels. the commission’s policy, approved in 2002, promotes integrated water resources management in developing countries. it is in this framework that the different uses of water – such as drinking water, sanitation, irrigation etc. – have to be addressed, in order to reach an optimal allocation of benefits among all users. moreover, the best practices of different experiences of green belts around cities, particularly in africa, are currently being analysed in the context of the ‘great green wall for the sahara and the sahel’ initiative as part of a feasibility study supported by the european commission. further support to this initiative will be considered in the framework of the africa-eu partnership on climate change. i am pleased to announce that the water facility will continue under the 10th european development fund and that eur 200 million has been set aside for that purpose. member states are invited to participate with additional funding. the commission’s strategy is based on an integrated framework for collaboration with partner governments, eu member states and all the stakeholders concerned. the water facility complements the national programmes with its capacity to work with decentralised actors and develop innovative solutions. the ongoing preparation of the 10th edf water facility identifies in particular the potential offered by public water operators, who provide over 90% of water and sanitation services globally. therefore, public-public partnerships potentially constitute a very cost-effective approach in terms of promoting the relevant ‘good governance’ principle in the acp water sector, with potentially long-term and sustainable impacts on institutional and organisational change. such ‘twinning’ partnerships – for instance through training and technical assistance – can be efficient ways to promote the principles of good governance in the water sector in acp countries. finally, let me confirm that aid effectiveness and the division of labour are discussed with relevant partners within the mechanisms of the eu water initiative. a mapping of eu development assistance in the water sector has been carried out to improve that ongoing dialogue. the question of donor orphans is an important one in the water sector and the commission intends to take this into account in the conception of the new water facility under the 10th edf.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i am very pleased that the fifth world water forum is being held in istanbul and that the european union is also taking part, with a representative of the commission and a delegation from the european parliament. i also understand and support the need to support local public authorities in achieving democratic and participatory systems of better or innovative water management, and to support decentralisation processes as well. all this with the primary and overriding objective of defending the fundamental right to water and sanitation, but, of course, within a rigorous framework of respect for sustainable development, which in the european union is embodied in the water framework directive as a reference, and with the millennium development goals as a background in the field of development. i have to say that all this - and i will put it this way tomorrow in an amendment which i hope this house will accept - was discussed this summer at the international expo in zaragoza 2008, in which the european parliament, for the first time, also took part alongside the commission on an equal footing. more than 2000 experts, in the water tribunal, ngos, in the forum called el faro, as well as delegations from the commission and parliament, discussed and generated a huge pool of discussion and very interesting and creative proposals on water management. this was perpetuated in a charter of zaragoza 2008, adopted on 14 september 2008, with 17 points, some of which i would like to highlight. it says: that access to safe drinking water and sanitation is a human right that must be guaranteed by public authorities; that access to water is a powerful driver of development; that predictions indicate that climate change is capable of changing water availability and needs across the planet; that the sustainability of food production is directly linked to the efficient use of water. that the watershed unit is the most efficient territorial area for water use and the best place to resolve conflicts between countries, regions or users; and finally, that public intervention should take the initiative to promote appropriate legislation and structuring of water rights. i would ask the commissioner to take account of the conclusions of this 'zaragoza charter', which was drawn up with the participation of experts, ngos, associations, the commission and parliament, and which really served as a forum for debate prior to the fifth world water forum in istanbul. i think it is worthwhile to integrate the conclusions of this charter and also of the water tribunal into the european discussion and debate that we are presenting as the european union in the pavilion at this international exhibition.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for what has been a very important debate, even if it was short and took place late in the evening. since the beginning of this commission’s term of office, as a co-chair, i have been very much preoccupied by sri lanka. there were moments when we had some hope – rather more at the beginning – but hope has now faded away. i wanted to take part in the geneva process, but it seems that was difficult for the government of sri lanka. in any case, this process unfortunately broke down. i was also ready to go up to the north to start mediation, like my predecessor, chris patten. but the north was not ready – officially mr prabhakaran had measles or chicken pox. in any case, i am in complete agreement with mr gahler, who said – and this is also my own concern – that we should put people and humanitarian concerns first. as is so often the case, we have been the largest humanitarian donors in sri lanka. in 2008-2009 we allocated eur 19 million for humanitarian assistance, which was then channelled through partners like the icrc, the united nations and also some international non-governmental organisations. these organisations are ready to help the affected populations, but they have real problems – which they tell us about – in gaining access to the conflict area. since september 2008, the icrc has been the only agency allowed to operate in the ltte controlled areas in vanni. the world food programme has been allowed to send some food convoys, but this has only been sufficient for around 50% of needs. since 2008 we have provided another eur 7 million in humanitarian assistance to the two organisations. we have also been pushing consistently, in both colombo and brussels, for better access to these populations by humanitarian organisations. therefore i can only say – together with the other co-chairs and also particularly with norway – that we have used every opportunity to press the parties in conflict to implement the 2002 ceasefire agreement and to solve the conflict using peaceful means, but nothing has worked. numerous calls for a return to negotiations have always been totally ignored and unfortunately the military route has prevailed. the scope for intervention by the international community has narrowed more and more over the last three years, but not one of the co-chairs has abandoned the mission. we have all remained committed to contributing to a peaceful solution to the conflict, as can be seen from the last co-chairs’ press statement released on 3 february, of which i am sure you will all be aware. therefore what we must do now is again press for humanitarian access, get the humanitarian and civilian population out, and then try, when the time is right, to start to foster a political dialogue with the parties in conflict and try to persuade them that a political solution is the only way out. otherwise there will be a guerrilla war, which will not solve anything for this beautiful island. it was once a paradise and could become a paradise again.
ladies and gentlemen, the first item on the agenda today is the commission statement on the eastern partnership.
member of the commission. − mr president, this is a really interesting debate, and i wish to thank the members very much for their overall great support for this eastern partnership approach. let me say at the outset that it is based on values. it gives support for both political and economic reform. it will require resources – and i wish to thank mrs andrikienė for her clear support on this – and, as many of you have said, it will also require political will. it is crucial that, apart from government-to-government cooperation, there be cooperation with the population, which is clearly there, and there is also the parliamentary aspect to things. therefore, it is very important that you also use the new euronest and all other means in order to really instil our ideas. that is my first comment. a lot can be said about this eastern partnership. the first thing to ask is what the added value is to our normal neighbourhood policy. the answer is ‘quite a lot’! we are going into greater depth: the association agreements are already very broad and deep. there should normally also be free trade agreements, which cannot easily be offered to everybody, because it requires a lot of structural changes in the countries concerned. that is very important. there is a move to more political cooperation and mobility for security, which many of you have mentioned. it is very important to have visa facilitation, but other countries need to do more on border management and documentary security etc. there is an outreach – a greater offer. then there is the multilateral component because, as i have always said, the neighbourhood policy, along with the eastern partnership, is in principle a bilateral offer – as mr swoboda rightly said – but it also has a multilateral component that enables countries to work with each other, which, as in the case of the south, is always more complicated. this is an offer, and by that offer we are trying to bring the countries closer to us. we do not have the same instruments as one has with candidate countries, where in order to enter the ‘club’ they have to comply with a certain number of conditions, and if they do not, then they cannot enter. therefore, we have to work with initiatives, with instigations and with positive momentum. that will take time, because this is also a question of societal change, but it is very important to be there and offer and agree to that. i also agree with those who said that we should not see this as a threat to russia. that is true, and at the same time this is a small group of six eastern partners, together with the european union, and on an ad hoc, case-by-case, basis we can here or there maybe associate russia or turkey. however, the black sea synergy is a very important initiative on projects that reaches out to all partners, including russia and turkey. it is a young policy and one has to give it a chance. we cannot implement a strategy in just one year. we have to be patient with this very important policy, which we must continually try to develop. i would say to mr szent-iványi that we support the eastern partners in meeting our conditions. that is crucial. we therefore have a mechanism for giving them more capacity-building and more institution-building, because we can see that sometimes the institutions are weak. concerning ukraine, we are working on the legal framework, but implementation is up to the governments in every democratic country, once the parliament has adopted the legislation. therefore, with the eastern partnerships, we are trying to support and to push, but it is also up to those countries to do their job. as mr swoboda mentioned, it is very important that we are also critical when necessary, and there has to be genuine leadership in a country. at present we are not always sure about that, and want the country to move ahead. i am very grateful to mr saryusz-wolski for his support. it is absolutely right to say that differentiation is also key here, because the various countries are very different: ukraine is in the forefront, in principle, then there are moldova and georgia, and then there is a country like belarus, in which the situation is very delicate. i am preparing for a visit to belarus, where we have to work a delicate balance, because we want to offer something – particularly to the population. from the very beginning, the commission has supported the students in vilnius, and i would like to see more support from the various member states, because the ones that always speak up about this should also do something. i have always been in favour of that. however, we also want mr lukashenko to go on with his reforms, which is what we are saying. it is important to communicate in such a way that this message is clear. on monday, there will be a gaerc meeting at which the question of what to do about belarus will certainly come up. the outcome will most probably be along the same lines as now, because we are not yet satisfied but, at the same time, we have seen some positive steps. in reply to mr vigenin, i would say that this does not replace membership. there cannot be membership, because neither these countries nor the european union is mature enough for their membership. therefore, we have to design. this is a policy designed to give as much as we can, provided the countries want to take it. the difficulty is that it is much easier, as i have already said, to give something if you lay down conditions or if you say: ‘well, try to do this, try to do that, and we will give you opportunities’. in this case there is no immediate goal of having a specific result, but the overall result is better stability, more security and more opportunity. concerning security questions, i would say to mrs isler béguin that it is absolutely true that we have to work for more security, but many other questions also come into the picture. we are working very hard on azerbaijan, on the question of nagorno-karabakh, on moldova, transnistria and on georgia, and are sticking very firmly to these questions. it is a principal question. we will not recognise the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia but, at the same time, we have to work with russia and have to engage with russia. on this point, i agree with mr swoboda that we have to be realistic, but also to make our firm position clearly known. these are the major issues, on which all of you have made very valuable points. in a multilateral framework it is very good to have civil society involved, in all its different forms, and also presents a great opportunity for them and for us to work on energy security. energy security today is one of the important issues where we have a real win-win situation: we are highly interested and they are highly interested. we have to bring that together.
that is a valid point.
mr. ribeiro, we have no news from the council. we hope they're in good health, but no, we haven't heard from them. *** written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by maria eleni koppa, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the eu-mexico strategic partnership (a6-0062/2009) and - the report by josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on an eu-mexico strategic partnership (a6-0028/2009).
the rapporteur. - mr president, latin america is a continent of over 600 million people, contributing more than 10% of the world's gross domestic product, with 40% of the world's plant species and, at the same time, a young, dynamic and extraordinarily active capital. however, despite the economic boom of recent years, latin america is not in the best moment from the point of view of its integration. president óscar arias said this at his inauguration and we recalled this this weekend at a seminar organized in são paulo with the former president of peru, alejandro toledo, and the former president of brazil, fernando enrique cardoso. there have been tensions between argentina and uruguay, the alca project has failed, venezuela has left the andean community, there have been problems between brazil and bolivia over the nationalisation of energy resources, between argentina and bolivia for the same reason, between ecuador and colombia, between colombia and venezuela, between mexico and venezuela, etc. the european commission's initiative, supported by parliament and the council, to establish this strategic partnership is therefore a clear and well-defined message that latin america remains on the agenda of the priorities for action by the european union, thanks in part to the personal commitment of commissioner ferrero-waldner. in the case of mexico, this strategic partnership particularly wants to underline the importance of this country in latin american and world forums and, moreover, is a key and essential step to consolidate existing relations with mexico and to expand coordination on issues of global importance. this new step is an opportunity to further strengthen political dialogue and coordinate the positions of both sides at the global level, as well as the various multilateral forums and international institutions, through consultation mechanisms that allow joint positions to be adopted on specific issues of global scope such as security, the environment or socioeconomic issues. for the european union, it is also an excellent opportunity to have a privileged relationship with a country which occupies a leading position in latin american forums, such as the rio group, where it holds the presidency until 2010, and which is part of the g-20, the g8+5, the world trade organisation, the international monetary fund and also the oecd, being the only latin american country to be present in this body. so finding common solutions to the global economic and financial crisis, developing ambitious strategies for the success of the un climate change conference in copenhagen, developing a structured dialogue on immigration or working together to achieve the millennium development goals are some of the things that the annual summits between the european union and mexico can achieve, if this strategic partnership is enabled as we are proposing. parliament too, in the resolution it will adopt this morning, will once again reiterate its support for president calderón in the fight against drug trafficking and organised crime; and i believe that we must also, from a position of respect, dialogue and shared responsibility, take on common challenges, such as the fight against vulnerable sectors of society, such as women or representatives of the media. commissioner, this year we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of the san josé political dialogue, in which, thanks to a large mobilization of central american political talent and the support of the european union, it was possible to pacify the central american isthmus, which was ravaged by civil conflicts. i believe that support for peace, understanding, harmony and reconciliation is an honourable task which the european union has been carrying out in central america and elsewhere. now that these values are being consolidated, not without difficulty and not everywhere equally, the time for development is clearly ringing in, which, without integration, from our european experience, will be more difficult. i believe that with this strategic partnership with mexico we are giving a great boost and above all we are sending a clear and well-defined signal of europe's commitment to latin america.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, dear friends, let me first of all thank the rapporteurs, the honourable members maria eleni koppa and josé ignacio salafranca, for their excellent reports on the strategic partnership between the european union and brazil and between the european union and mexico respectively. i must also say that i am proud, as commissioner, that we have drawn up many proposals, many communications for latin america in general, and for brazil and mexico in particular, because it seems to me that this was the time to do it. in recent years, both brazil and mexico have emerged as leading players on the regional and global stage. and the european union, in line with this reality, has recognised the need to consider these countries as strategic partners, not only because of their economic weight in latin america, but also because of their role as leaders at the regional level and, very often, for regional security issues. the foundations of our relationship are extremely strong. we not only have, as we all know, close historical and cultural links, but we also share common interests and values, and our economic ties are growing ever stronger. the european union is in fact brazil's largest trading partner and brazil is the main beneficiary of eu investment in latin america. it has attracted some €87 billion, more than all the capital invested by the european union in the other bric countries, namely brazil, russia, india and china. it is also true that brazil is very important in the cooperation on the wto. he's a partner who can be difficult at times but who naturally has a say. since the implementation of the eu-mexico agreement, a pioneering agreement between a latin american country and the european union, the annual average of european investment has tripled and the union is now mexico's second largest trading partner. of course, mexico is also a partner with which we share the same values and interests. that is why we have developed this strategic partnership as a powerful instrument which we hope will bring tangible benefits not only to our respective citizens but also to those of other countries and regions of the world. i take this opportunity to emphasize that the european union, brazil and mexico are continuing to cooperate in dealing with the financial crisis and preparing the ground - as you said, mrs koppa - for the success of the g20 summit in london in april. they also continue to work together on common challenges such as climate change - our main theme - the fight against drugs, where we are indeed very supportive of president calderón, who has a great fight to fight, and the sensitive and difficult issue of migration. we have seen the efforts that the mexican government is making in this fight against illegal drug trafficking even though, unfortunately, the government has to face almost unknown violence until now. so it's imperative that we help mexico. ladies and gentlemen, what does the strategic partnership mean for us? i believe it allows us to better prepare for the future by addressing a range of bilateral and global issues of common concern in a more structured, coherent and coordinated framework. i am very pleased to note that in this deepening of our relations with the two countries we have rightly focused on some of the priorities identified in the european parliament's report, such as coordination at multilateral level, which means also at the united nations, democracy, human rights and the other global issues i have just mentioned. with brazil in particular, we have also begun to work on the question of renewable energies, such as biofuels, where brazil really has experience and which president lula himself shared with us during the portuguese presidency. as regards the monitoring and implementation of this partnership, mr president, our main challenge for 2009, as regards brazil first, is to put into practice the joint commitments made in the action plans. we would like to see the negotiations concluded on two important points. firstly, the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver and the granting of market economy status to bulgaria and romania. we also plan to open new dialogues on education, culture, economic and financial affairs in 2009 and to continue the existing dialogues, and we will continue to work with brazil on all other global issues. as regards mexico, i hope that the strategic partnership decided by the council will be proclaimed soon at an eu-mexico summit. in the meantime, the commission, together with the member states, has begun to work with the mexican government on an operational document detailing the concrete actions that will optimise the strategic partnership. finally, a word on the role of the european parliament. we have always been in favour of any contribution from parliament to the launching of this strategic partnership and we welcome these recommendations with enthusiasm today. in this context, i can only welcome the fact that parliamentary relations seem to be extremely promising, some 96 members of the parliamentary group on european union in the brazilian parliament are here. i think we share the same interest and as for the eu-mexico joint parliamentary committee, we also see that it is working and its next meeting will take place at the end of march. in summary, mr president, i believe that we are actively committed to translating into practice the many commitments we have made in the framework of the partnership and we hope to work towards greater security throughout the world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, i would first like to congratulate the commission on its initiative, which involves the recognition of brazil as a regional power and raises its relationship with the european union to the status of a strategic one. until now, this relationship had been based on the 1992 framework cooperation agreement and the 1995 eu-mercosur framework agreement. but in recent years, brazil's role in the global landscape has changed for the better and it has emerged as a key interlocutor for europe. this new scenario calls for us to intensify and diversify our relations. firstly, the eu-brazil strategic partnership should help this country to exercise regional and global leadership. secondly, in relation to the millennium development goals, and although programmes such as bolsa familia have succeeded in increasing human development and reducing extreme poverty by almost half, it cannot be ignored that income inequalities are still very high, that there are considerable concentrations of poverty and that there are also strong regional differences between the north and the south of the country. in this context, it would be good to exchange political experience which would lead us to propose innovative solutions in the fight against poverty, inequality, social exclusion, reducing imbalances, social protection and decent work for all. in environmental protection we share basic concerns and on this basis we must open a dialogue on issues such as climate change, water management, biodiversity and deforestation, and on the role that indigenous peoples should play in all of this. in energy cooperation, the dialogue launched in 2007 has allowed us to make progress that we need to consolidate on issues such as sustainable biofuels, renewable energy, energy efficiency and low-carbon energy technology. the strategic partnership with brazil also carries with it a commitment to further regional integration that strengthens our cooperation with mercosur.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, the european countries are linked to latin america by close historical, cultural and human ties. as a spaniard and, moreover, galician, i know it well. we also share principles and values that are also part of our christian heritage. in general, latin america and the european union are natural partners and we must intensify our relations. i am very pleased that there is broad agreement in this house that the european union should establish a strategic relationship with mexico and brazil. i myself made that statement about mexico in april last year, in a debate in this parliament on the lima summit. the strategic partnership should be accompanied by regular annual summits. we have had these with brazil since 2007 and they are rightly called for in the salafranca report on mexico, in the face of the ambiguity of the council conclusions of october 2008. i hope that this year we can have that summit with mexico. ladies and gentlemen, the european union's strategic partnership with mexico and brazil is very beneficial at the bilateral level and also at the global level. bilaterally, there is ample potential for growth in the relationship. the example of mexico is that the association agreement has led to a dramatic increase in trade and investment. the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking and cooperation on energy are other areas of necessary joint cooperation, as is increased consultation in multilateral fora. in the case of brazil, the intensification of relations should also contribute to the unblocking of the eu-mercosur agreement. i want to highlight the positive balance, from the economic point of view of mexico and brazil throughout this decade, in contrast to previous stages. without these advances, the result of sound policies, the current severe global crisis would have devastated their economies. on the contrary, their governments can now, with the reserves they have, pursue countercyclical policies, as do developed countries and some emerging economies. on the world stage, mexico and brazil also play a growing role. they participate in the so-called heiligendamm process and, as major economic powers in latin america, are members of the g-20. in today's complex and interconnected world - and i will finish - with multiple global challenges and threats, including climate change, it is very convenient for the european union and, of course, for the entire international community to cooperate in a spirit of shared responsibility with such relevant actors as mexico and brazil.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, on 15 july 2008, the european commission adopted a communication to the council and parliament recommending the establishment of a strategic partnership between the european union and mexico. the european council on foreign relations on 13 october recognised mexico as a strategic partner, pending parliament's opinion on the matter. we should recall that at the 7th meeting of the eu-mexico joint parliamentary committee, held at the end of october last year, we said that a strategic partnership between mexico and the european union is a necessary impetus to strengthen and develop the true potential of our bilateral relations. we point to the good momentum in relations between the two parties and the positive balance of the current global agreement. we insist on the need for our respective executives to strengthen cooperation in political, economic and cooperation matters, especially in the face of the new challenges of all kinds arising from the financial and economic crisis that is shaking our continents. with the great country that is mexico we share values and objectives such as the development of democratic forms of government, the commitment to gender equality, the consolidation of the rule of law, equitable and sustainable development, and respect for human rights. we call for closer cooperation in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and drug trafficking, based on the principles of shared responsibility and strict adherence to international law. we will therefore support the proposal for a recommendation on the eu-mexico strategic partnership which will be submitted to parliament this morning.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i think it is clear that we cannot forget the context in which we are discussing this agreement, a context of crisis which in europe is affecting, above all, those sectors which are more oriented towards exports and, in mexico, is affecting in a very specific way those actors who suffer most from the consequences of the economic slowdown. such an agreement should be beneficial for all parties, but the experience we have at the moment is that this is not always the case. it is very beneficial for europe. this seems to me to be self-evident and we see it clearly when we look at the balance of these eight years, with a trade balance that has been strongly tilted in favour of the european union. there has been an increase in the trade deficit of 80%, which has now led to a significant dependence on mexico in relation to the european union. but there are also other risks that we must not forget, and that is that most of these investments made by the european union have, afterwards, positive consequences for europe too. that is to say, many of the exports that are made are basically intra-firm. i'm not saying that this is necessarily bad, i'm saying that we have to be careful, that we have to be very aware that this can have very negative consequences. but above all, what is more worrying is to note the obsession with liberalization that some governments have and that obsession which is framed in certain logics in this context, such as, for example, the fact that, in the banking sector, one of the most important, one of those which has proved to be fundamental in dealing with this crisis, in the case of mexico, at the moment, 90% is in foreign hands, and of that part 50% in european hands. i think this is not the best way to approach an agreement of this nature. an agreement should correct, if not at all exacerbate, some of these risks, and that is what we propose with some of our amendments.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, the report certainly has some very positive aspects in relation to the association with brazil. the call for multilateralism, especially in the international forums of the united nations, cooperation on environmental matters, sustainable development, forest and water management, education, as well as on issues relating to renewable energy and technological cooperation seems to us very appropriate, very positive. as regards the approach to immigration, despite the shame directive, i think that on this particular point there is talk of human rights and of migrants, which i think is very appropriate. another important point is cooperation and the achievement of the millennium development goals, as well as social cohesion in relation to brazil's important leadership in the policy on poverty reduction with the family bag. the leadership of brazil, one of the leaders of the regional integration process through unasur, is undoubtedly also important within the association. in other words, it contains a whole series of important points which also encourage civil society itself to be included in these negotiations. now there are aspects of the report which we do not like - and that is why we are abstaining - such as the one which recommends, first of all, an end to economic protectionism in brazil. i believe that this text was written before the crisis; i believe that protectionism is a reality today. the winds that are blowing to end, to reduce the crisis are undoubtedly pointing to public intervention by the economy, by the administrations; i believe that the free market is over, it is over with a crisis of unforeseeable consequences for humanity. in addition, a very important point that we do not like is that joint participation is being requested in nuclear research projects, in particular the iter thermonuclear reactor project. i think that this is not convenient for us, we are not in favour of nuclear energy. i believe that with energy efficiency, more renewable energy, we can do without energy that is highly harmful to humanity and therefore this leads us, despite the positive points, to abstain. the report on mexico is a different report, namely that the partnership with brazil is still in its infancy. mexico has been a member of our strategic partnership agreement since 1997 and so we now have a balance sheet which allows us to judge whether it is going well, whether it is going as well as we would like it to or not as well as we would like it to. we shall also abstain on this report for a number of reasons. firstly, because we believe that the report does not take into account the negative economic consequences. it is true that progress has been made in considering aspects of backsliding in the field of human rights, in relation to femicide. amendments have been included which i believe add nuance and improve the text, but there is one part which we do not see in a positive light, and that is everything concerning the free trade agreement and the consequences it is having for small-scale mexican production. mexico, right now, like any country in the world, because of the crisis, is not having a good time. undoubtedly foreign investment in mexico is concentrated in a few sectors and does not help expand domestic economies. our group, the group of the european united left, will therefore abstain from voting on this report.
member of the commission. - mr president, i occasionally practice a little multilingualism and that is why i will try to speak spanish now. first of all, i should like to explain to mr belder why he has opted for a strategic partnership. i think it is very important to know that, first of all, it is the countries themselves that have a great interest. naturally, this is a political decision based on a few criteria. for example, mexico is a very important bridge between the north and the south and is a factor of stability even if it has problems in its own country. secondly, it is currently a member of the g20 and i hope, in reply to mrs mann, that it will continue to be so in the future. thirdly, there is a very strong commitment from mexico and brazil on global issues that we can, indeed, only address together. these include in particular the issue of climate change or the financial crisis. that's why i think the concept of strategic partnerships is valid, of course, not with everyone, but with the big players in the world. there are also many small or particular sectoral issues, some of which i should like to mention. it is true that we are talking to these countries about many difficult issues, such as drugs, corruption, terrorism, organized crime. we have, for example, meetings at senior official level and also meetings at ministerial level where we look at what can be done to help these countries, but where we also exchange experiences. especially on the issue of corruption, we've created a forum with mexico on public safety issues and explored cooperation in a number of areas, such as police training, policies on how prisons work, policies against human trafficking, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, cybercrime and money laundering. i think it's very important to continue these special dialogues. as for the question of when we can have more meetings, i can say that we will try to have a meeting at the highest level this year, but it is also up to the presidency whether it includes this issue on its agenda, i hope that in the second part of the year it will be so. we will have a ministerial meeting in prague anyway on mercosur, mercosur and the strategic partnership with mexico or brazil. neither one nor the other is excluded, because we have tried to work very hard for the agreement with mercosur, but you all know that neither we nor the mercosur countries, especially brazil and argentina, were prepared to sign an agreement at a time when it is not known in which direction doha will go. it's always been parallel to doha. naturally, we will have another ministerial meeting in prague in may and again we will try to force the possibility of a conclusion, but i think we will still face this challenge. as regards migration, it is also very important and i believe that we have, for example, with mexico, a balanced dialogue and not one of confrontation, especially on the return directive. we very much appreciate that mexico has responded in a very positive and understanding way in a very complicated area, as we all know, and where, indeed, on the one hand we must respect human rights, of course, but on the other hand we must also take into account the sensitivities of all our countries. i think that's been taken into account. i would also like to say that it is the big issues that are always on our table. for example, in december last year president sarkozy, president lula and president barroso spoke particularly about the question of the financial crisis, how to tackle it together, but also about the question of renewable energy, on which we are already working with brazil to develop a second generation of biofuels. we will also hold a human rights dialogue for the first time in 2009, which will also refer to the rights of indigenous peoples, which is one of the priorities, also of the human rights council. i think i will stop here, madam president, because there were so many issues that i will not go into each one of them.
the rapporteur. - madam president, to conclude this debate i would simply say that the decision to grant mexico and brazil the status of strategic partners is a sound decision, and it is a decision which must involve a qualitative leap in the relationship, because of the political, economic, strategic and demographic importance of these countries, so that they can play in the first division of the relations maintained by the european union with other global partners, such as the united states, china, russia, etc. madam president, the difference between mexico and brazil at the moment - the commissioner has just reminded us of this - is that mexico has an association agreement with the european union, something that brazil does not yet have. i disagree with the assessments made of the balance sheet of this association agreement. the association agreement between the european union and mexico is a success story - and the chair of the joint parliamentary committee, mrs mann, has recognised this - because the way in which the european union concludes these agreements is a way in which our partners, in this case mexico or the mexicans, do not represent just a market, but a certain way of looking at things, based on principles, on values, on representative democracy, on respect for human rights, on the rule of law and on the rule of law. i think we must therefore be aware that this agreement has given a boost to relations, which must now be reinforced by the nature of this bi-regional strategic partnership. the commissioner was telling us that the next meeting, at the moment, is the rio group meeting in prague, under the czech presidency of the union, in may next year. latin america and our partners need not gifts from us but opportunities, and those opportunities are represented today by the partnership agreements. i fully understand the limitations that the commissioner has pointed out to us, because in order to conclude an association agreement, in this case with mercosur, the will of both parties is required. i understand that the wto round and the bilateral association path are absolutely complementary paths, and the examples of mexico and chile prove this to our satisfaction. we therefore, madam commissioner, are making every effort to consolidate this strategic partnership between the european union and latin america, which, through these partnerships with mexico and brazil, will go a long way.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i have been following the case of tibet for years; i have visited the region; i have spoken to many people inside and outside the country and i consider the demands of the tibetan people to be legitimate and to some extent logical and, above all, more than justified the fears they have at this moment in the face of the policy of great repression they are receiving from the chinese government and which has lasted for more than 50 years after a brief and i would say false truce during the olympic games. i have met few people with a clearer will to dialogue and to reach agreements than the tibetan people. and that is why i still cannot understand the chinese government's obsession with distorting reality on the one hand and obstinately blocking the round of talks again and again on the other. a country is not made great by its military strength, its size, or its economic wealth. he is great by the magnificence of his deeds and his generosity. the european union must and can contribute to the restoration of this situation, naturally respecting sovereignty but with firmness. this is done by supporting the tibetan request to resume the sino-tibetan dialogue and by assuming that if anyone has been yielding and suffering pressure from the chinese authorities for years, it is in this case the tibetan people. we are not facing a conflict between equals, either in terms of capacity or motivation. the european union must be respectful of all parties, but it cannot be neutral in the face of oppression, indiscriminate detention, torture, murder or religious, linguistic and cultural genocide. the memorandum on genuine autonomy for the tibetan people, which has so far been rejected by china as a working document, is in itself a real effort and a huge concession to the legitimate aspirations of the tibetan people. china now has the chance to show the world its generosity and its will for peace and harmony and, above all, the european union has the chance to help it live up to its greatness.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the international expo 2008 in zaragoza, the first single-theme exhibition on water and sustainable development and the first exhibition in which the european parliament participated on equal terms with the commission, closed on 14 september 2008. the three months of discussions with more than 2 000 experts and ngos resulted in the so-called zaragoza charter, which reflects the debate between mexico 2006 and istanbul. i therefore propose the following view, which i read in english: having regard to the zaragoza charter of 2008 a new comprehensive vision of water and the recommendations of the water tribune adopted on 14 september 2008, the closing day of the 2008 zaragoza international exhibition, and forwarded to the secretary-general of the united nations,.
in writing. − to help fill the shortage of research staff, it is necessary to facilitate the return of european scientists working outside the union and also to facilitate the entry of scientists from third countries wishing to work in the eu. women remain underrepresented in most areas of science and technology and in positions of responsibility. i therefore think it is important to ask the member states to ensure that there is a better balance between men and women in the bodies responsible for the recruitment and promotion of research staff. it is essential to open and ensure the transparency of the selection and promotion processes. to create a single labour market for researchers, it is also important to define and implement a single european research career model, and to establish an integrated system of information on job vacancies and traineeship contracts for research across the eu. as regards the improvement of mobility, i would like to stress that in order to facilitate exchanges with scientists, men and women, from third countries, including those with which there is already significant scientific cooperation, such as some latin american countries, it is essential to facilitate a special visa policy, less bureaucratic and more flexible.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. right now, in the philippines, we have many open fronts and all of them need to be dealt with in a specific way in their context. and that is why it is important to understand the multiplicity of responses: there is a humanitarian dimension in the case of the philippines, but there is also a clearly political dimension and both are fundamental to be able to move forward in the frustrated peace talks, i say frustrated after this summer what seemed a good path was cut short by various incidents and, above all, after the supreme court found the mou to be clearly unconstitutional. this has fundamentally slowed down the whole negotiation process and requires a 'firm' response from the international community at two levels. the first is humanitarian: it seems to me clear that the situation, not only of the 300 000 displaced people, but also of the very many victims who are currently being disappeared, tortured and even murdered, requires first an investigation and then a political response by the government, prompted by the international community. but secondly, there is also a need for a political response: norway has been negotiating and establishing different frameworks for some time now in order to reach agreements that will allow the situation to be resolved. it's a kind of parallel diplomacy, it's a kind of silent diplomacy, it's not the diplomacy that we're used to from the standpoint of headlines, but it's necessary. it is sometimes absolutely necessary to have actors playing the role that norway is playing and i think that the european union should not only encourage this kind of activity but also, and fundamentally, support any initiative that would allow the differences between the various groups currently in dispute in the philippines to be resolved, from the point of view of promoting dialogue.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. firstly, because - as has already been said and i join in the congratulations and celebrations - the opening of the process against al-bashir raises the importance of ending this situation, especially in darfur, although it relates to the context of sudan, but also because it shows that the international community can and must act when these situations reach the extremes to which the situation in sudan has reached. it is clear that the ideal would be for al-bashir to resign and be handed over directly to the international criminal court. it is unlikely that this will happen, but the response must be clearly in this direction from the international community and there can be no doubt about this type of process. on the other hand, the humanitarian situation also requires a clear position not only from the point of view of what we have just heard today, namely the kidnapping of three doctors without borders workers, whose whereabouts and situation we do not know at the moment, and the expulsion of 13 non-governmental organizations which, in recent times, were providing basic and fundamental aid, among other things, of first necessity. this expulsion shows that the response being given is exactly the opposite of what would be necessary, what would be desirable and what the european union and, above all, the international community should be able to accept. not only is it not acceptable, but there has to be a response, there has to be a response to this situation. and that is why i think this resolution is fundamental, that it is absolutely crucial that we can pass it today and that we can pass it with the largest possible majority. and that is what i urge my colleagues to do too, to not fall behind on these kinds of issues. finally, i would also like to make a very specific request to the united nations office for human rights: that it open an investigation to see whether this expulsion of ngos can even be considered as one more addition to what is already a long list of war crimes for which the sudanese authorities should logically be held accountable.
author. − madam president, i have two oral amendments. one is on recital b and the other is on paragraph 4. concerning paragraph 4 the amendment is in two parts. one is substituting ‘utrecht’ with ‘oslo’ – that is a technical point but it is important – and the other is adding, after ‘bilateral agreements’, the words ‘for the gmc’. they are small things so that we better understand and everybody can agree.
author. − madam president, my second oral amendment is very simple as well. it is simply to delete the word ‘communist’ before ‘insurgents’, and to replace ‘120 000 lives’ with ‘40 000 lives’.
mr president, i want to talk to you about el musel, the great port of my region, asturias. it is absolutely essential that the commission unblock the financing of its overhead. this is the view of commissioner antonio tajani, who, like his predecessor jacques barrot, has been deeply involved in the great functional and environmental challenges facing the musel. in the midst of the crisis, with the urgent need for a project like the musel, it is time to overcome delays, formalities and obstacles in order to carry out with high vision this financing, which is essential for asturias, for the north of spain and also for the european economic revival. i repeat, for the economic revival of europe, in which spain is so honoured to take part.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, as has already been said, this is certainly an important debate and it has just been described as historic, not least because of the number of hours devoted to this work and the political debate which has preceded it. i think it is good that, in the midst of the noise that has preceded this debate and that, in a way, surrounds it, noise, i say with all respect, but contributions from civil society, from ngos, from national parliaments that are also involved, in the midst of all that it is important to know why and how we have come to this. the negotiation of these association agreements with the acp countries is not a political decision freely taken by the european union, as if it had different options on the table and had chosen this one over others. it is basically a legal necessity, derived from the very rules of legality established by the world trade organization. it is a necessity arising from the situation in which our previous trade legal framework with the acp countries found itself. and it should be remembered, also in this house and at this time, that those who denounced the european union's relations with the acp countries were precisely other developing countries, which had perfectly legitimate demands for access to our markets, but which, by the mere fact of not being former colonies of countries which are now members of the european union, had been left out. the european union therefore had, and still has, two standards: one for its former colonies and another for other countries with a similar level of development that do not have such a system. that is what was becoming unsustainable and what those same countries, in the world trade organization, were busy stressing. on the other hand, we must remember another truth: the system we are going to replace, first lomé, then the system derived from the cotonou agreements, has never produced the expected results. no one can claim that the cotonou system was perfectly satisfactory. if it were, the figures for the volume of trade of the european union with these countries would be much higher than we have today. so let's not presume that we're going to replace something that has worked, because it hasn't. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. and i am, of course, referring in particular to those countries which are the subject of these agreements and which are not the least developed countries. there is this sense of ownership, of taking ownership of one's own destiny, of not being strictly dependent on outside aid, which is behind these partnership agreements politically - philosophically, if i may say so. my group therefore fully supports the principle of the european commission negotiating these agreements and of these agreements being total, complete, covering goods but also services, the rules of competition, being agreements as a whole. it is certainly another thing how these negotiations have been conducted and the specific issues that remain on the table. i refer to what each of the rapporteurs has said on this subject in relation to the different areas, because we are indeed talking together, but each negotiation is managed separately. there are unresolved issues, there are concerns - such as, for example, the situation of the outermost regions, to mention one - which deserve specific attention in the case of cariforum, but, on the whole, i would like to stress politically my full support both for this negotiation and for the need to continue and for parliament to follow up this negotiation effectively. we have tabled one of several amendments to ensure that parliament's follow-up of this issue is carried out in a harmonious manner and not in a different way depending on the countries concerned.
mr president, in december 2007, the heads of state and government of the european union approved in lisbon the joint africa-european union strategy and the first action plan for its implementation. the strategy was motivated by three realities. the first is the coexistence on the african continent of peace processes and the progressive consolidation of democratic systems, with persistent conflicts, such as that in darfur, high rates of poverty and the emergence of phenomena such as the mass flows of illegal immigration. the second of the realities is that sub-saharan africa is the poorest region on the planet. a population with low life expectancy, low levels of schooling and literacy and high population growth. 300 million people survive on less than a euro a day. the third reality is that africa is the physical setting for the major pandemics, the place where more than two-thirds of the people who are infected with aids live and where 90 percent of the deaths caused by malaria occur. this year we have made little progress on the objectives we set ourselves then, and since the action plan covers until 2010, there is a need for urgent action in two major areas: cooperation on democratic governance, institutional strengthening and strengthening the role of civil society, with particular attention to gender policies, and cooperation to achieve the coverage of basic social needs, the fight against hunger and the launching of development policies in the areas of education, health and access to basic goods such as water.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the creation of a european cultural area, the european cultural area, the european cultural area, the european cultural area, the european cultural area, the european cultural area, the european cultural area, the cultural area, the cultural and the cultural heritage. historically, artistic teaching was linked to the educational spheres in the child and youth sections. however, today, the focus on lifelong learning and the development of new communication and information technologies have widened the space traditionally devoted to art and culture, and have generated new forms of access and expression of the sector. the constant advancement of ict has also fostered a knowledge-based economy, in which intellectual capacity and creativity have taken a prominent place. the motion for a resolution, which we shall be voting on tomorrow, is based on the idea that art education is the basis of vocational training in the arts and promotes creativity and physical and intellectual development in this field; it considers that it is an essential component of education for children and adolescents and that its teaching in schools would lay the foundations for a genuine democratization of access to culture. it also considers training to be a very important element for the success of professionals in the artistic and creative sector, since artistic studies aimed at developing a career and a profession, in addition to talent, require students to have a solid cultural base that only a multidisciplinary and systematic training allows to acquire, also increasing the possibilities of job insertion in the sector, insofar as it provides general culture, research methodologies, entrepreneurial spirit, economic knowledge and skills in different areas. it also recognises in a very special way the economic and employment potential of the creative, cultural and artistic industries in the european union, which exceeds the contribution of other well-known industries such as chemicals or food. it should also be borne in mind that schools and centres for art and design education help to create new artistic styles and movements and to promote access to other cultural universes, thus strengthening the european union's image in the world. the draft report considers that art education should be a compulsory element in educational programmes at all school levels and encourages the member states to coordinate their policies on art education at european union level and to promote both academic and labour mobility in this sector, paying greater attention to the recognition of qualifications between member states. we also call on the council, the commission and the member states to define the role of arts education as an essential pedagogical tool for the enhancement of culture, to establish common strategies for the promotion of arts education policies and the training of arts teachers, and to recognise the important role of artists and creativity in our society, as highlighted by the european year of creativity and innovation. finally, it stressed the importance of using the resources provided by new technologies and the internet as channels for modern education adapted to the new times, when introducing the artistic dimension in school curricula, and recommended the joint development of a european portal for artistic and cultural training, to ensure the development and promotion of the european cultural model. i therefore call for a majority vote in favour of the report, which would send a clear signal of support to professionals, students and creative and cultural enterprises.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the various rapporteurs for these reports, in particular mrs krehl and mr van nistelrooij, who have made possible an important consensus within our commission. we must also welcome the european commission's proposal for a green paper on territorial cohesion, which puts important issues on the table. on the one hand, the importance of cohesion policy as an instrument for the balanced development of the european union, avoiding any attempt to renationalize these policies. the new concept of territorial cohesion is incorporated and, to this end, a consultation period has been opened, which has just ended, and which must be taken into account. and it adapts to new challenges, such as the effects of globalisation, climate change or demographic changes. the data from the last cohesion report show that, while it is true that differences between regions are disappearing as the principle of convergence is achieved, we must face another reality, namely the persistence of intra-regional differences. it is therefore necessary to open up the possibility of taking into account other factors than income per head exclusively when determining the eligibility criteria for the funds. in addition, in order to incorporate the concept of 'territorial', we must be aware of the need to take into account the special characteristics of certain regions, such as geographical disadvantages, the outermost nature or the processes of depopulation of certain regions. cohesion is one of the most obvious successes of the european project. spain has been a clear example, with the economic and social development it has experienced. that is the path we must continue to follow and thus guarantee equal opportunities for europeans, irrespective of the territory in which they live. the european union is made up of a wide range of regions, with differences that enrich them and give meaning to this project. but if there is one thing we must insist on with cohesion policy, it is the need to put in their hands all the instruments that make it possible to have equal opportunities in accessing their development and growth.
madam president, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the report on micro-credit, because they have done a great job. they have certainly improved the commission's initiative. i believe that the recommendations set out here will enable us to lay the foundations for the development of a genuine framework in the european union for the micro-credit sector, a sector which has been successful in many developing countries, including some european countries, both as a mechanism for economic activity and as a tool for improving social inclusion and job creation. but it has not been transposed into the community context and i believe that this is an opportunity to do so, particularly in the economic and financial context in which we find ourselves. it is therefore a matter of priority to strengthen the initiatives that are being taken here, but more must be done. the funds available for these support structures for micro-credit must be increased. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to stress that the commission is aware of the problems that arise in the area of the protection of the environment. and i end up thinking that, without a doubt, this will lay the foundation for us to be able to create a harmonious framework in the european context that drives the microcredit sector.
your time is up. the rules laid down by the bureau of the house indicate that up to five members may speak in this type of shift and for a strictly one-minute period per person. there are six other members who have asked to speak, in addition to the five who have normally finished their term. since we have some time - i have been told by the services of the sitting - i shall make an exception and allow the members who have asked to speak to do so, but i would ask them to stick strictly to the subject and to the minute set in this procedure of 'catching the eye of the president'.
before i suspend the sitting for a few minutes, i would like to take the liberty of greeting with great affection a group of visitors, pensioners and pensioners from the province of toledo, in my region of castilla-la mancha, because they are here to fulfil their duty as europeans. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
mr president, this is indeed a point of order. i will not enter into a debate, but the rapporteur has just said something that does not correspond to what is going to be put to the vote. he said that the alternative motion deletes four paragraphs of his original resolution, and that is not true: there are just changes in their numbering. of the four cases he quoted, only one is not in both resolutions. that is a statement of fact. the other three are in both resolutions. (heckling)so this is a point of order concerning clarification. members are voting on what he asked them to vote. there is just one case, which has nothing to do with the spanish supreme court, that is different in both resolutions. as the rapporteur’s statement was not correct, i think this constitutes a point of order.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by gay mitchell, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual reports for 2007 of the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development (a6-0135/2009), and - the report by esko seppänen, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision granting a community guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under loans and loan guarantees granted for the execution of projects outside the community (com (2008) 0910 - c6-0025/2009 - 2008/0268 (cod)) (a6-0109/2009).
mr president, the time has come to analyse how the financial framework 2007-13 has worked so far and what changes would need to be made in the almost four years that remain. first, the limitations of the agreement on the financial perspective adopted by the member states in 2006 must be acknowledged. we denounced it then and we now see that it was not enough. and unfortunately the present financial perspective has shown its limitations, just at the worst possible moment, just at the moment of the crisis when the community budget should be the spearhead of the european union in the battle against the economic crisis and unemployment. today it is almost an astonishing feat to find five billion euros in a community budget to be used in the next two years to relaunch energy research, secure the energy connection or better communicate the rural areas of the union. whole regions of the european union, like mine, asturias, are hoping to find a viable and sustainable way to use coal as a clean energy source. that is what the community budget should be for, for example. but its rigidity and the financial under-allocation of the different categories of expenditure only allow us to find those five billion euros on the basis of not fully using the money from the common agricultural policy in the period 2009-2010. this is not budget efficiency; these are simply accounting tricks. the rapporteur, mr reimer böge, has today introduced a very useful reflection on how to make the community budget a genuine active instrument of economic policy. we cannot afford to have any more failed financial prospects in the future.
madam president, europe must make a firm commitment to the automobile industry. it is key to achieving a technologically advanced economy that leads the fight against climate change and ensures high standards of efficiency, safety and quality in the mobility of people and goods. the eu is the world's largest producer of passenger cars and the second largest producer of lorries, with 19 million vehicles, of which 20% are exported. the sector accounts for 3% of gdp, 6% of employment, 8% of national income and one-sixth of household expenditure. the structural and strategic challenges of the automobile have been broadened by the current crisis. we must tackle them with a european, sectoral and forward-looking approach, through social consultation. only in this way can priority be given to employment and training, discrimination and unfair competition be avoided and europe's interests be defended at international level. in the short term, temporary incentives and financial support, through the eib or other means, must be provided for the survival and relaunch of the sector.
madam president, i thank the commissioner for his availability and efficiency in calling all the interested parties together to avoid and solve the problems of opel europe, of industry, which is a competitive industry wherever it is, in the face of the global problems of general motors in the united states. i would also strongly encourage you to make this rescue - the impetus for the rebirth of opel europe - an example of how the european union is able to deal with the miseries created by globalisation, with the necessary response that we have also learned from globalisation, from a european approach. i would therefore like to see us first of all ensure the repatriation of the property rights to european innovation. and a guarantee system sufficient to give opel europe the autonomy it needs to continue to offer us ever safer, more innovative, more energy-efficient and more sustainable cars. the social dialogue must also be strengthened by empowering the opel unions and the european committee, which are showing a great deal of co-responsibility. finally, commissioner, i believe that in order to defend the european approach, we must also arrive earlier. i am saying that if we are to have the credibility and success of europe, we cannot wait for governments like mine in aragon, which has already offered a guarantee of 200 million. it seems that we are thinking about this at european level. on behalf of the more than 7,000 workers at the opel figueruelas plant, i ask you to please do more.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the european elections and two weeks after the adoption of the third maritime package, the european institutions are about to send another positive signal to the citizens of the union, showing that in this particular moment of crisis the commission, parliament and council are on the side of the citizens, are able to face a difficult crisis, are able to give concrete answers. the single european sky reform is an important signal that will have repercussions for industry, will have repercussions for citizens, will reduce environmental pollution. the data we have on the difficulties facing the air transport sector are well known - more have come in today, i will list them in the course of the debate - and so we have shown that we can react to a crisis and this is certainly a positive fact that makes europeans understand that the institutions are there and are able to deal with the difficulties. that is why i want to thank parliament for the speed with which it has adopted this decision. i thank mr marinescu, with whom i have an old friendship, for having worked with him in parliament, side by side, i know his abilities which he has once again shown by working in concert with the commission and delivering an important result in a very short time and with him i also want to thank all the shadow rapporteurs who have allowed the institutions to be once again at the side of the citizens. it was certainly a great effort which, i repeat, was an effective response. air transport is waiting for concrete and tangible measures to meet the needs not only of airlines but also of passengers. that is why i have insisted on the introduction of a performance regulator to ensure that monopoly situations do not hamper the quality of service. the rapid introduction of an air traffic network operator will not only facilitate the deployment of national systems but also serve as an example for all modes of transport, including the telecommunications and energy sectors. i would like to recall the support which parliament has given to the commission in the development of a new instrument to finance crossborder infrastructure projects, including those from the cesar programme. parliament recognised the importance of partnership and reaffirmed the important role played by operators in achieving this ambitious approach. i am glad to see that parliament is joining the commission in recognising, through a joint declaration, the importance to be attached to the human factor, and in particular parliament has spoken in favour of strengthening the position of the military in the construction of the single sky, a position which i fully share, also because i have been a military air defence controller for some time and i cannot help but understand the important role played by military controllers in the air traffic sector. i have brought to you, for example, the operating rooms that i have visited where civilian and military operators work side by side to ensure the safety of air transport. the joint statement, which i support, calls on the commission, while stressing the need to take due account of human factors in order to implement the single european sky regulations effectively, and believing that safety can never be taken for granted, to recognise the need to further strengthen the safety culture, in particular by integrating a reliable accident reporting system and just cultures so as to learn from accidents. the commission states that it will build the performance scheme on the basis of a genuine safety culture by integrating an effective accident reporting system and a 'just culture' as the basis of safety performance. it will ensure the appropriate level of competence of safety professionals, promote the involvement of staff representatives in the implementation of the single european sky at national, functional airspace block and community level. it will assess the integration of human factors in the realisation of the single european sky no later than 2012. in conclusion, for the first time the aviation sector as a whole will be dealt with in all its aspects. this new approach will bring the safety of ground movements at airports, in air corridors and during landing and take-off under the responsibility of a single body. this is a new chapter for the faa. the rapid adoption of the package, and i thank you again, shows the strong political will that exists at european level to implement the great ideas of my important predecessor, who is sadly no longer with us, loyola de palacio. she wanted a truly unique sky for the benefit of the citizens. today we were able to bring about this reform.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, the committee on industry, research and energy welcomes the commission's proposal, which solves the shortcomings of the first package in terms of consistency, efficiency, cost reduction and improved management. the main contributions from the committee on industry, research and energy relate to financing. the master plan requires significant resources, so public funding should be available when needed and the initial investment should not be pre-financed by users. they also refer to the role of eurocontrol, which we believe requires a thorough reform to ensure its good governance and control of the provision of services. and as for privatising services, i still think it is more effective to do a study beforehand, without any intention, and decide on the basis of the result. in conclusion, i would stress once again that the creation of the single sky is essential to progress towards the kyoto objectives and that, as a spaniard, i am pleased that the error that has arisen in the matter of gibraltar has been corrected. i would also like to thank the commission for its excellent cooperation and the invaluable help of the services of the committee on industry, research and energy and my group.
mr president, mr barroso, only a united europe that puts growth and jobs at the forefront of global policy will be able to lead international action to revive the economy, strengthen crisis prevention and management, improve the regulation of financial systems and support the most vulnerable countries in this first global crisis. the g20 represents the majority of the world's population (two out of three people) and 90% of global economic activity; its responsibility is to ensure a concerted, effective and sustained triple response to revive demand and the productive economy with future investments, restore credit and promote robust international financial regulation and supervision that provides transparency, stability, appropriate incentives, eliminates systemic risks and ensures no return to the starting point. we need a new economic order and a system of global governance for the 21st century that addresses the causes and imbalances at the root of the crisis and promotes sustainable development through an open and supportive economy.
mr president, mr president of the commission, i should like to begin by expressing my regret that the employment summit in may has been replaced by a troika meeting, however open it may be. i think this decision takes us back to 1996, when employment policies were considered to be member states' policies. secondly, as regards monetary policy, i am, like the rest of my group, in favour of the central bank's radical independence, but independence does not mean immunity from criticism. i would like to say here that i would have liked the european central bank to have been more bold in reducing interest rates, taking into account their impact on european exports, and more generous in setting the repayment terms of loans granted: the federal reserve lends at three years; the central bank, only at six months. again with regard to monetary policy, i would like to make one comment: i hope that the rescue plans for financial institutions and the possible plans to buy toxic or damaged assets will not lead to any competitive improvements for the banks receiving aid compared to those that have been better behaved and do not need it. we have had a great deal of discussion this morning on the subject of fiscal stimulus. is that enough? is that too little? does the united states do more than us? whatever the outcome of this debate, the fact is that we are witnessing the greatest fiscal stimulus our generation has known since 1929. and that requires coordination on both sides of the atlantic, coordination which must be much closer on two issues: to conclude the doha round, to send a signal against protectionism to the whole world, and secondly, a joint examination of the global imbalances which are at the root of this crisis. i note certain contradictions in the commission's position on the stability pact. today's debts are tomorrow's taxes and the commission must ensure that national measures are linked to the lisbon strategy and do not jeopardise the sustainability of finance. that is why it must follow with great care the plans to restore orthodoxy to those countries which have - or have, as i am a spaniard - been subject to the excessive deficit procedure. thank you, mr president, for your generosity with your time, which has not gone unnoticed.
madam president, regarding amendment 13, to be added after paragraph 22, i would like to have this amendment considered as an addition instead of as a replacement of the original text. on that condition, we could support it. in fact, if you allow me, this same amendment and exactly the same proposal from my group would apply to one amendment in almost every report we need to vote on. i do not know whether i can read a list of those amendments, or if you want me to stand up in each case with exactly the same request. it is up to you.
madam president, i have an oral amendment here to amendment 2, namely the deletion of the last sentence for the sake of accuracy, because it is not accurate any more. we would delete the sentence ‘considers that this monitoring should start after the adoption of each interim epa’. this does not apply in this case. this is a full epa, not an interim epa, so for reasons of factual reality we would like to delete this sentence.
madam president, since we are talking about the budget, i think we must be prepared to negotiate the continuation of aid to coal, an essential indigenous source of energy, next year. and i say this in advance, because, in an improper way, some high official, confusing public opinion, allowed himself to have a contrary opinion, leaking it to an economic publication. no, not at all. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
in writing. - i voted against the reports on the epas with the caribbean islands and against the interim agreement with côte d'ivoire, among others. parliament has voted in favour of the interim agreement with côte d'ivoire, for example, a country plagued by internal conflict and without a legitimate government. in these circumstances, i simply do not think that this is the best time to conclude an international agreement with long-term consequences. under pressure from the world trade organisation, the european union has abandoned the cooperation agreements with the acp countries and replaced them with economic association agreements with isolated countries, often breaking the strength of the regions. the first agreements, imposed by europe, have been strongly criticised by ngos and researchers in these countries, and today parliament has examined them.
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs, in particular mr severin, mr lambsdorff and mr lagendijk, and also the committee on foreign affairs and the authors of the opinions, mr garcía-margallo and mrs quisthoudt-rowohl. i thank everyone for their cooperation in the preparation of this report on relations between the european union and the united states. we have thus obtained a report on an important matter with broad consensus. the report we are voting on tomorrow is therefore a strong and decisive message from the european parliament at a very opportune moment. and i say this as an important matter because it is clear that the european union and the united states are two very important actors in the world, who must work closely together, as befits those who share the same principles and values, and many interests. the report's main thrust is that we are at a very opportune moment to strengthen the transatlantic relationship. and this is basically for three reasons. the first is a new, pragmatic administration in the united states, which knows that no country can face global challenges alone and which has aroused great expectations in european and world public opinion. the second is a stronger european union, more capable of acting abroad than the union of 1995, when the new transatlantic agenda was agreed; moreover, it will soon be a union strengthened by the instruments of foreign and defence policy of the lisbon treaty. and the third, a new context, marked by global challenges like the economic crisis or climate change, and no longer just military challenges, as in the past. for the new challenges, cooperation with the european union will be very useful to the united states. this transatlantic relationship must be strengthened on two levels: an institutional level and a material level, of practical cooperation. we must take advantage of the lisbon treaty to strengthen institutional structures; two annual summits, not just one, attended by the new permanent president of the european council; also, create a transatlantic political council, which meets quarterly with the high representative - and vice-president of the commission - and the secretary of state; raise the level of dialogue between legislators by creating a transatlantic assembly and also improve the transatlantic economic council. all these improvements will make coordination more intensive and effective; they should be incorporated in a new transatlantic association agreement, and negotiations should start when the lisbon treaty enters into force. the other objective of the report is to strengthen cooperation in practice. it is about setting an agenda for jointly tackling numerous challenges and conflicts, as well as bilateral issues. to achieve this common agenda, the council and the commission must intensify their contacts with the new government in washington in the coming months. i therefore welcome the summit with president obama in prague on 5 april, as stated in the amendment tabled by my group. the report identifies a number of global challenges on which the united states and the european union should seek common approaches, such as the economic crisis, effective multilateralism that integrates emerging actors, the millennium development goals, climate change, the promotion of human rights, etc. it also deals with a number of regional issues where we must act in a coordinated way. these are conflicts such as the middle east, the iranian nuclear programme and afghanistan; relations with russia and the countries of latin america are also mentioned. disarmament and security issues are areas where better coordination is also needed, including the fight against the grave threat of terrorism, which must be carried out in full respect of international law and human rights. the report also deals with certain bilateral issues in the fields of justice and home affairs, including the issue of visas. it also stressed the need for the transatlantic partnership to enjoy broad support from civil society, especially young people. economic and trade relations are also included in the report, which stresses the need to move forward with the integration of the transatlantic market. and in these matters, of course, i have incorporated many suggestions from the economic and foreign trade committees. and, ladies and gentlemen, i'm through with you. with this report, i believe that parliament will send a clear message tomorrow, if it is adopted. we call for a strengthening of eu-us relations, including at the institutional level. i believe that this strengthening will benefit both sides and also the entire international community.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work he has done to present a complete, rigorous and extremely timely report to the house today. the presidency and the commissioner have referred to the forthcoming meetings we are having, starting with london, then prague, where the european union and the united states are going to start a new relationship, after the election of president obama. i should like to focus on the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which has done a good job, was adopted unanimously, and addresses the following objectives. first, to get out of the crisis. we either go out together or we don't. we are at this moment witnessing the most important fiscal packages our generation has known since the 1929 crisis. its impact will be greater and its cost to the taxpayer lower if we are able to coordinate efforts. the second objective is to reform the institutional financial architecture that has proven to be a failure in the current crisis and to restore transparency in products, institutions and markets. we either do it together, or we don't. as the commissioner has pointed out, we are the world's largest economy and we share - as the rapporteur says - the values that will make such a rapprochement possible. the third objective is the integration of financial markets to resist competition from emerging markets. this requires the approximation of regulatory markets, which will make it possible to put the principle of mutual recognition into practice and to improve supervision by the authorities on both sides of the atlantic. the commissioner has referred to the fourth objective, and she has said it better than i: we must resist the protectionist temptation together and it would be good if we presented a common position at the doha round. and last but not least, commissioner, we must work together to resolve the global imbalances that have been at the root of much of this crisis. we must imagine a new international monetary system and it would be sad if, because of a misunderstanding with our main ally, our voice were lost in the world as a whole.
the european union is a partner of the united states, and we are all very proud of the fact that the united states is a partner of the european union. the combined output of the two regions was eur 23 billion, representing 60% of world gross domestic product. both regions contribute 60% of world trade and have been able to mobilise 75% of net world investment. the rigorous and balanced report presented by the rapporteur, mr mon, could not come at a more opportune time - as has just been mentioned - when the newly elected president of the united states is making his first visit to europe to take part in the g20 meeting, the 60th anniversary of nato and the extraordinary summit between the european union and the united states. the european union and the united states must be able to mobilise to try to consolidate a leadership which, in my view, needs to be renewed in three respects. firstly, in safeguarding the principles and values which underpin this transatlantic alliance. secondly, by greater ambition in the transatlantic dialogue on the issues to which both the rapporteur and the commissioner have referred: iran, iraq, the middle east, afghanistan, etc. and thirdly, to try to promote a new dialogue on the strategic aspects affecting global issues, such as the fight against poverty, food and energy security, the fight against climate change, etc. mr president, it is quite clear that the europe we want to establish as a power will not be able to consolidate itself against the united states, but alongside the united states, as two partners who share a certain vision of the world, values and mutual respect. and that means, mr president, that the european union must not write a blank check either, that it will have to defend its positions when it needs to, as on the issues of the death penalty, the international criminal court, the kyoto protocol, guantanamo or laws with extraterritorial effect, and that the united states must respect the european union as a factor of stability and balance in the world. it is summed up very well, mr president - and i end with this - by the statement made by the new secretary of state, hillary clinton, before the senate foreign affairs committee: the united states cannot solve its problems without the rest of the world and the rest of the world cannot solve its problems without the united states.
mr president, gordon brown said recently in a speech in washington, the first european leader to speak in that capital, that there was no political memory of a period when europe was so open to the united states. and it is true. there has never been so much pro-americanism, so much americanism, we might say, in the whole of our societies and, obviously, also in the whole of our political, cultural and social elites. and that's something to be seized upon. it is a tune which goes beyond personal sympathy for the new government and which adds to a long common agenda on which we can work, and which is there, and is very well explained by this report which we shall be voting on tomorrow. but it is also very important to bear in mind that, although we share many things, interests are not always the same and that, therefore, in certain areas, as friends who now talk face to face, look into each other's eyes and are able to work together, there are some matters on which we will continue to disagree, especially because we have different societies to serve, and i am speaking very particularly of the economic and commercial spheres, where there are open questions which must be resolved with the best of cooperation, but without forgetting where each one is. and in that context, the european union has to be self-critical about what it must do and what it must improve in order to be credible. we know that, after lisbon, we will have clearer instruments and, at that time, we will be able to put them into practice, but, from now on, we must understand that if we want to be respected and appear on the radar screen of the united states, we must also reform our own way of working.
mr president, with the election of president obama, the united states is living through a historic moment, the significance of which is widely felt and shared in europe. president obama is today in full sync with europe in relation to a political action which has as its keywords 'reconstruction' and 'recovery'. the speech by prime minister gordon brown yesterday in this very room is a good example of the interpenetration that exists. the words 'reconstruction' and 'recovery' certainly deserve the utmost prominence in the face of the current crisis, in which we are moving towards a green economy where growth and environmental protection are not at odds but complement each other perfectly. but we are also seeing a 'reconstruction' and a 'recovery' of the bridges between europe and the united states that had been weakened over the last decade. the return of the united states to multilateralism is a very good sign for europe and makes our goals of peace, justice and well-being more viable on the world stage. in recent years, however, there has also been a shift away from civil society on both sides of the atlantic. the european institutions must encourage all kinds of interactions between organisations, academia, the media and social actors so that this gap can be closed.
mr president, we should shout 'abricots! abricots!' - another miracle of president obama, who has united this parliament and the european union, after many years, in a common objective, namely to strengthen transatlantic relations. there was a similar moment when bill clinton and felipe gonzalez signed the transatlantic agreements in 1995, and there was, at that time, great optimism about the future. then came the dark eight years of mr bush's presidency, which deeply divided european governments - not so much public opinion - and whose government was abandoning basic principles for the european union, such as multilateralism, support for the united nations and international law. all that is now being rebuilt and we have good reason to hope for the future of relations between the european union and the united states. i therefore congratulate mr mon on this brilliant report, which is so timely for the strengthening of relations between the two continents.
mr president, i too join mr yañez-barnuevo garcía in his wishes because i believe that this report marks a before and after in relations with the united states. a good friend of mine was telling me not long ago that she had been to the united states and was surprised by the lack of knowledge about the new institutions, the new procedures, created by the treaty of lisbon. and if i had to weigh something and assess something very positively in the excellent report by mr mon, it is precisely that, which puts us in the transatlantic relations orbit of the treaty of lisbon and establishes all the great mechanisms that this treaty of lisbon gives so that the european union can maintain a two-way relationship with the united states. it gives us europeans the tools to be able to articulate that european will which was so necessary yesterday, today and, of course, tomorrow. i would also like to congratulate mr millan mon on his excellent report.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am grateful for all your contributions and comments in this debate. i am delighted that the european parliament, the commission and the presidency very much share the same view on the most important issues for the strategic dialogue between the eu and the us. i am pleased to have heard strong support for the topics we chose for our first informal meeting with president obama, namely: firstly, energy security and climate change; secondly, economic cooperation; and, thirdly, cooperation on security and external relations. i listened carefully to other comments made, such as the need to build a new transatlantic agenda, to deepen cooperation in foreign assistance and development policy, to pursue cooperation in justice and home affairs, to keep up the momentum on the transatlantic economic council, to explore setting up the transatlantic political council etc. we will take them into account as we prepare for the regular eu-us summit to be held in june. those of you who raised the other issues, such as the visa waiver – because not all the eu countries are taking part in that – can remember how, a year ago, my country led efforts on that. it was also the subject of a debate in this parliament, so i can assure you that we will continue to raise this issue with the us government as well. in conclusion, i would like to add the following reflections. it seems clear that the new us administration has taken on board many of the messages that we have been sending them over recent months and years about the transatlantic relationship. they are now responding. for example, we are now being asked to provide greater strategic input on afghanistan. it is also clear that strategic input is expected to be matched by a very practical commitment, so i believe that you will remember this when we are discussing our practical contribution to the future afghan mission. it should come as no surprise for us once we are really engaged in a deep and serious debate. when president obama said in berlin last year that america has no better partner than europe, he was not just making a statement of principle, but also inviting europe to provide the proof. secondly, it is clear to all of us that the challenges we are facing are getting more numerous and more complex. to return to one of my opening points, when the eu and the us agree, we can help set the global agenda. that also means taking our share of leadership and leading others to lend their support and provide means towards the goals set. but to be able to do so and be a credible partner to the us, the eu must speak with one voice to the greatest extent possible. the czech presidency will continue to ensure that the transatlantic partnership remains one of the cornerstones of the eu’s foreign policy. i look forward to developing this relationship further as we face new challenges together and i look forward to continued cooperation with this parliament in doing so.
member of the commission. − mr president, as many have said, this debate has shown that it is a question of how we can implement the most important issues together with such a crucial strategic partner as the united states of america. since i made quite a number of very clear and practical remarks at the beginning, i will just make a few concrete remarks now. first, the role of legislators in, and the institutional set-up of, eu-us relations is very important. in principle, we unequivocally support stronger links between the eu and us legislators. obviously, the primary impetus for this must come from the law-makers themselves. i know that the european parliament is ready to do so, and this should also come from congress. nevertheless, i suggest that it would be worthwhile for eu legislators also to cultivate more intensive contacts with the senate, which has a longer electoral cycle, and with congressmen whose sectoral expertise could advance the agenda of the transatlantic economic council. the lisbon treaty, as and when it enters into force, will then, as has been said, also give the ep a reinforced role in shaping eu-us dialogue, especially on regulatory matters; as has been mentioned, think-tanks will certainly also be very important not only from the us side to us but also from the eu side to the us. concerning eu-us institutions, i would caution, first, that the transatlantic agenda should be driven by substance rather than by process. in our first meetings with president obama, therefore, as i have said before, it will be important to demonstrate the capacity to focus on results. however, i have taken careful note of your call for an overhaul of the current arrangements under the new transatlantic agenda. i intend to initiate a review of the structures to help them deliver better, and the commission will come up with due proposals. let me also speak briefly on the transatlantic economic council (tec). mr verheugen has already had a meeting with his new us counterpart, mr froman, on 23 march 2009. the main issues of the tec under the new administration are as follows. firstly, raising the profile of political strategic issues, while at the same time relieving the burden of more technical matters on the summit agendas. secondly, the time horizon for a future work programme – here mr verheugen wants to set a very long-term perspective, but this has to be weighed against the mandate of this commission and we need to have some short-term results. finally, how to deal with pressure from the member states – to whom we have promised, but not yet delivered, a mid-term programme – to be more involved in the work of the tec. second, i would like to point out that we are a community which shares values with the us, but there are still things that have to be done. therefore we will need to continue to encourage the us to sign up to core un human rights conventions, including those on discrimination against women, and the rights of the child – to name but a few. this includes our position on the icc, as has been stressed on several occasions with the bush administration, but that will be taken up again. third, concerning visa waiver and visa reciprocity, which many of you mentioned: we know that, owing to substantive efforts by member states and at eu level, seven member states were admitted to the visa-waiver programme in november/december 2008. however, there are still five member states which do not yet enjoy visa-free travel to the us. we will, therefore, continue to raise this issue. i can tell you that vice-president barrot and the czech minister langer raised the issue again last week in washington and the us side has generally shown understanding of our position, while stressing at the same time that the action of the federal government is based on statutory requirements, which clearly set the framework of future enlargements of the programme and are being monitored closely by congress. secretary napolitano informed us that one additional member state is getting very close to entering the visa-waiver programme. finally, concerning afghanistan: not only have we already delivered a lot in the past, but, as i have said before, we are ready to contribute to the civilian search, and there will be some additional funding that we will find from our asia budget for the elections, the police and, most probably, for agriculture because it is important to have additional alternative livelihoods. i am always open to new ideas, and one example, which is taken up in your report, would be to upgrade the foreign ministers’ meetings into a transatlantic political council with a heavier focus on strategic themes. as i have said before, we intend to look at revamping the existing transatlantic agenda in that perspective, against the background of the 15th anniversary of the new transatlantic agreement in 2010.
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for the speeches and the congratulations. what i think is most important about this debate is that there is a broad consensus on the importance of the eu-us relationship and also on the need to strengthen it, not only through a joint agenda to deal with serious challenges and serious conflicts, but also through new institutional mechanisms. with a few exceptions, i have not seen any major objections to either the two annual summits, or the establishment of a transatlantic political council, or, of course, to the improvement or raising of the level of the dialogue of legislators to a more strengthened dialogue, to a kind of transatlantic assembly, as the report advocates. i am also pleased that the commissioner has found this strengthening of the dialogue between legislators very useful and that neither she nor the council representative is opposed to this other strengthening of other institutions, which i believe is largely required by the treaty of lisbon. this will be very timely and beneficial for both parties. i cannot respond in one minute to all the comments i have heard, but i do want to say, on russia, that as mr severin knows, the report advocates constructive cooperation, without prejudice, of course, to human rights and international law; on china, that there are explicit and implicit references, when i talk about involving the new emerging powers in world governance and, of course - and this is a comment that also refers, to a large extent, to the few amendments that i have fortunately received - the report cannot deal with all the issues. the report must be prioritised; it is already too long and prioritising means choosing, opting and sometimes discarding. i cannot mix the very important issues with others which, while important, are less so. the report must be legible. and so it cannot, as we say in spanish, "fall out of hand" when it comes to reading it. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that cooperation with the united states is very important, as prime minister gordon brown reminded us here yesterday. i believe that by approving this report tomorrow parliament will be fulfilling its duty to send a signal that we want and demand an even stronger strategic relationship with the united states. the report reminds us - and james elles said it a few minutes ago - that the most important strategic relationship the european union has is the relationship with the united states. i am sure, i hope and i trust that the commission and the council will do their utmost in these months, in these very opportune weeks, to strengthen this relationship, including the institutional dimension.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i certainly welcome the interest of members of parliament in the issue of the eu’s relationship with turkmenistan, and i am pleased to have the opportunity to respond on behalf of the council to the various questions and issues which have been raised in parliament. turkmenistan is in many ways growing in importance. for a long time it has been a very inward-looking country. but, over the last two years, it has taken a number of significant steps to open up to the outside world. the government is increasingly open to cooperation. this is reflected in a greater effort to work more constructively within the framework of the eu’s central asian strategy. despite these changes, our contractual relationship with turkmenistan has remained unchanged for 20 years. as mr wiersma stated, it is still based on the outdated trade and commercial and economic cooperation agreement with the soviet union. against the background of positive developments in turkmenistan, we have an opportunity to strengthen our bilateral relationship. the interim agreement, which was signed in 1999, provisionally applies the trade-related parts of the partnership and cooperation agreement, also signed in 1999, for which only three member state ratifications remain outstanding. there are many aspects to the union’s relations with turkmenistan. the promotion of human rights and democracy is, of course, at the heart of the bilateral relationship, as it is key to the wider strategy for central asia. the fact that turkmenistan borders afghanistan makes it also a strategically important country. at the same time, turkmenistan is participating in the reconstruction of afghanistan and provides logistics background for operations or activities of many eu member states in the framework of the isaf (overflights) as well as on a bilateral basis. turkmenistan is critical to regional security and the fight against drug trafficking. its growing economy provides opportunities for eu companies. in addition, turkmenistan is a key partner in the diversification of the eu’s energy relations and energy security. these are all important areas which we need to develop in our own interests. in addition, since the presidential elections in february 2007, turkmenistan has engaged in a number of significant reforms, including constitutional changes. many of the new provisions in the constitution, as well as other reforms which have been announced, underline that the country is moving in the right direction, even though it is a long-term process and much more still needs to be done. on the question of human rights, turkmenistan has engaged constructively in a human rights dialogue with the eu on a wide range of issues. this dialogue has also been matched by some important developments within the country. in particular, some political prisoners have been released, and there has been increased cooperation with the un. turkmenistan has also permitted the un rapporteur on freedom of religion to visit, it has participated fully in the un periodic review, and a un centre for preventive diplomacy has been established in ashgabat. in addition, internal travel restrictions have been eased, a dialogue with the icrc has begun, and education reform has restored ten-year secondary and five-year university-level education. turkmenistan has acceded to international conventions such as the second optional protocol to the international covenant on civil and political rights and the convention on the political rights of women. all this is evidence that turkmenistan is moving ahead. of course, much remains to be done in the field of human rights and respect for the rule of law and democracy. we will continue to push in particular for the release of all political prisoners, for free access by the icrc to prisoners, for a lifting of the restrictions on foreign travel, and for freedom for the media and civil society. the presidency is convinced that the best way to ensure that turkmenistan delivers on these issues is through constant engagement. we have to be able to have an open dialogue, and, when necessary, send clear messages, if turkmenistan is to move towards full respect for international standards. this is precisely why we need to upgrade our relationship and our own instruments and tools. the current contractual arrangement with turkmenistan provides for only a rudimentary bilateral dialogue. the only treaty-based dialogue consists of a meeting of a joint committee at officials level once a year. the interim agreement would make human rights an essential element of relations, and would therefore strengthen our ability to influence future developments in turkmenistan in this area. the pca, once in force, would go further by providing for a fully-fledged political dialogue. the eu strategy for central asia, adopted in june 2007, states that, ‘in order to intensify cooperation with central asian states, the eu will make full use of the potential of partnership and cooperation agreements’. such agreements already exist in the case of kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan and uzbekistan. and in the case of tajikistan, an interim agreement is in force pending the ratification and entry into force of the pca. for the successful implementation of the eu strategy for central asia it is important to have all central asian countries involved, and that is why it is important to create conditions for involvement of turkmenistan as well. without it the implementation of our goals and interests in central asia would be very difficult. the presidency is convinced that we need now to establish an appropriate legal framework for our relations with turkmenistan, beginning with the interim agreement. this will enable us to build on the developments taking place in the country, and to strengthen our wider engagement with central asia. the interim agreement is the most effective way of ensuring that turkmenistan makes progress in the various key areas which i have outlined, not least in respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i know that you share these objectives, and therefore hope that we can count on your support for taking this forward.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the election of president berdimukhamedov, turkmenistan has indeed entered a new phase of its development, and several positive signs of change have emerged. the new leaders are more open-minded. for example, they lifted some restrictions on freedom of movement within the country, amended the constitution to strengthen the role of parliament, created an institute for democracy and human rights, hosted the un centre for preventive diplomacy in ashgabat, and for the first time allowed international observers to attend the parliamentary elections last december. furthermore, as you know, reforms in the education and health sectors are now a priority for the government. in 2006, the european parliament proposed to the turkmen authorities a number of measures to enable it to finally deliver a favourable opinion on the interim trade agreement. and in the last two years, since the election of the new president, many of the measures proposed have been adopted - i do not want to repeat those mentioned by the president of the council, particularly concerning the icrc. reforms have also been initiated in the field of education, with the modernisation of the education system, teacher training abroad, the extension of schooling and the introduction of the internet in schools. a few prisoners have been released, including recently my dear colleague in parliament, mr valery pal, whose release we had called for. and in september 2008, for the first time ever, a visit was granted to the un special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, who concluded that, and i quote, "although some religious individuals and communities still face difficulties, the situation has improved significantly since 2007". the launch of new structured dialogues, as we have heard, on human rights is another positive point. of course, you can be sure that in these meetings we will always address topics of concern, including the situation of political prisoners, freedom of assembly, media, worship, minority rights, and we will emphasize at every opportunity our commitment to respect for human rights and their importance for long-term economic and social development. because of these concerns, which are certainly legitimate, about the situation in turkmenistan, parliament postponed its decision on the interim agreement. i share some of the fears in principle and i also recognize that turkmenistan still has a long way to go before it achieves full respect for international standards of democracy and human rights. however, even if it is limited, it is a positive development, showing a willingness to move forward and to be open to change. we see it as an opportunity to engage with and encourage the turkmen authorities. i am firmly convinced that the european union must do more to work towards positive developments. the application of the interim trade agreement, i.e. the trade provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement, would be a positive first step which would allow us to engage more with turkmenistan and to promote more vigorously cooperation, reform and modernisation as a whole, and the interim agreement contains a key human rights clause and i am aware of your concerns about the possibility of suspending the agreement. in this connection, i would like to point out that the interim trade agreement, in article 1, and the partnership and cooperation agreement, in article 2, contain clauses referring to respect for democracy and fundamental rights as essential elements of each agreement, but above all that both agreements contain clauses allowing each party to take appropriate measures in the event of a serious breach of their terms, even without consulting the joint committees in the event of a particular emergency. the suspension of agreements in the event of an established, continuous and serious violation of the human rights clause is therefore possible. but it is clear that the interim trade agreement is not the panacea. it will certainly not solve all human rights problems in turkmenistan; however, it will contribute to greater adherence to international standards, in particular in the area of the rule of law and human rights. we have two further important reasons for strengthening our relations with turkmenistan to protect our own interests: security and energy. the fact is that turkmenistan is located at the crossroads of europe and asia and neighbours, for example, iran and afghanistan, and its active neutrality is important in a region of high tension which is conducive to destabilisation. to this end, we are successfully cooperating with turkmenistan in the field of border management and in the fight against terrorism, islamic extremism, drug trafficking and human trafficking. this cooperation is all the more important in view of the recent renewed engagement of the international community in afghanistan and pakistan and the forthcoming regional conferences in the hague and tokyo. as we all know, central asia could play a very important role in energy security. since the change of regime in turkmenistan, we have strengthened our cooperation in this area. the european union is making every effort to complete the southern european gas corridor as part of a wider policy of diversifying energy sources and transit routes. clearly, turkmenistan is essential to the success of this project. in conclusion, our relations with turkmenistan must be shaped by both our values and our interests. that is why i remain convinced that by engaging with turkmenistan we will be in a better position to make our case for a more open society in that country. we will continue to urge the authorities to move forward in other areas, such as reform of the criminal and civil code and legislation on religion, freedom of the media, release of political prisoners, allowing international observers access to prisons and increased registration of ngos in the country. for all these reasons, i would ask you to support the favourable opinion on the interim agreement with turkmenistan.
madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before i give the floor to the various speakers for this debate, i will allow myself the permission - as i am responsible for multilingualism issues at the bureau of parliament - to read to you some advice from a brochure prepared for new members of parliament on how to intervene so that interpretation can be carried out properly and this miracle unparalleled or unprecedented in any other institution can continue to operate on a daily basis. it is not the tablets that moses brought down from the mountain, but it says thus: "speak at a regular pace and not excessively fast. speak in your native language, if possible. avoid changing languages during your interventions. talking is better than reading, but if you have no choice but to read, make sure that the text is available to the interpreters. clearly cite the references to the documents. please clearly state any figures mentioned. explain the acronyms used in your speech. remember that jokes are difficult to translate and you have to dialogue with the interpreters. and when you are chairing a meeting, wait a moment before giving the floor to the next speaker, so that the interpreters can finish the talk and change the channel. thank you very much for your interpretation and let us take this opportunity to congratulate the interpreters, who make our work possible with theirs, so complicated and always so effective.
mrs flautre, the president does not measure the speed at which speakers speak. the president has a light in front of his eyes where the interpreters send him an sos when they stop interpreting because they can't follow the speaker. it is not that i am measuring, but that they are sending me a distress call and i am transmitting it to the members of parliament so that everyone can follow the debate. thank you, always, for your understanding.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. and now the last speaker, mr martin, has the floor. we shall examine in the bureau whether, at this part-session, speakers who have already taken part in the debate can be allowed to speak, because what they usually do is to reopen it; but, in this case, as it is the fifth and five are those who have the right to speak, i give the floor to mr david martin.
madam president, let us not forget - i agree - and let us not over-emphasize, from a political point of view, that totalitarianisms are all reprehensible and that communism and fascism did irreparable damage to this continent. today we are a united continent, 27 nations, 500 million people who share the values of freedom, democracy and human rights, and we must condemn both the totalitarian communism that ravaged central and eastern europe and the nazi-fascism that had ravaged many countries in europe, including my own country, years before. i lived for 32 years under the franco dictatorship and i must not forget that, as some of the speakers have not forgotten it either, as in greece or portugal. i never forgot, even when i was young, the suffering that people were going through under the communist dictatorship. i was never a communist and i always condemned that. and that's not an obstacle for him to be an anti-franco fighter and condemn francoism. the fight is the same. we must fight for the same principles, for the same values and constantly remember the victims of all these forms of totalitarianism.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague and friend, mr lambrinidis, on his report and also on his fairly balanced oral presentation of what he is trying to achieve with this report. i have brought a book here, which is the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. this book was approved by 90% of the spanish electorate and by most of the national parliaments of the countries to which the members of this house belong. it has not entered into force because of certain political difficulties, but that text is fundamental, because the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is incorporated here - and for me it is a mandate from my constituents. i believe that the principles set out by mr lambrinidis in his report are reflected in that charter. firstly, the internet is a space of freedom, modernity and equal opportunities, where people communicate, network and exchange information, ideas and knowledge. and that right is recognised by article ii-71 of the treaty establishing the european constitution. secondly, the internet must defend freedom and the development of the information society in a way that is compatible with respect for intellectual property and the protection of users' privacy. in particular, the right to intellectual property and also the right to privacy of users are recognised by article ii-77 of the draft european constitution. and thirdly, we must strike the right balance between the protection of rights, the promotion of the supply and the legal market for digital content on the internet and an open development to new business models emerging on the net. we also have the protection of personal data, which is recognised by article ii-68 of the draft constitution. i therefore believe that the lambrinidis report reflects these concerns. it is true that it does not go into detail about the conditions, requirements, consequences and sanctions for abuse of the internet, but i think that this will be covered by a legislative document, which we are not discussing at the moment.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank parliament for the very strong interest it has expressed and its continuous involvement with regard to ship dismantling. i would especially like to thank mr blokland. this is a very good starting point for further action at eu level to ensure that the european union plays its part in solving this international problem. these questions are also timely, in the light of the recent ruling of the bangladeshi high court that you have just mentioned and the situation in that country. as a consequence of this ruling, all ship recycling yards will be closed within two weeks as they have not been authorised by the ministry of the environment. the import of dangerous ships that are on a list will be banned and all imported ships will have to be pre-cleaned. finally, bangladesh will start developing a national law on ship breaking in line with the basel convention. now, let me turn to the situation closer to home by answering your questions. your first question concerns the phasing-out of the beaching method – the method of dismantling end-of-life vessels directly on the beach. i share your concerns about the serious risks this presents to human health and the environment. we considered the question of introducing an eu ban on beaching in the impact assessment of our strategy. there were some concerns regarding the effectiveness of any such ban since it would be only applicable to eu-flagged ships and could be easily and legally circumvented by changing flag. we believe it will be more effective to put our efforts into ensuring that the technical guidelines currently being developed to support the future imo convention really do lead to safe and environmentally sound ship recycling. the progress in the development of these guidelines is, so far, very encouraging. it is very doubtful in any case that the traditional beaching method would be able to comply with the forthcoming guidelines. and, regarding your second question, i am pleased to confirm that the commission is fully committed to working towards an effective and early transposition of the ship recycling convention into eu legislation. the environment dg has already launched several studies and is working on assessing the impacts of the key elements of the convention. i believe that it is extremely important for the european union to show leadership and the high priority that we attach to this issue. this will encourage the ratification by third countries and consequently speed up the entry into force of this convention. but i share the concerns highlighted in your third question regarding the importance of not undermining the existing community acquis. we need to safeguard the existing requirements in terms of workers’ rights and environmental protection when transposing the imo convention. and in our study, we will therefore carefully compare the requirements of the imo convention with our community acquis. and i would like to stress that we will, in particular, ensure that the 2006 waste shipment regulation is not undermined.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a decision on the matter. i would therefore like to congratulate mr blokland, not only on the question but also on the resolution he has prepared. in the people's party we are in favour of fighting against the bad practices and methods used to scrap ships and therefore support mr blokland's motion for a resolution; however, there are some points which concern us. the first is paragraph 3 - which he has already mentioned - which says that ships, as a whole, must be considered as hazardous waste and, as a result, must fall within the scope of the basle convention. we have tabled an amendment on this point because there are different interpretations within and outside the european union, and we believe that the basle convention should be taken into account and not contradicted, but that the details of its application should be defined by the future international agreement on ship scrapping. the motion for a resolution also calls, in paragraph 14, for a financing mechanism based on compulsory contributions from the shipping sector. it is a bit hasty to talk about compulsory contributions at the moment, when the system for financing them has not yet been decided at the imo, and i do not think the european commission has a clear answer to this question either. finally, in paragraph 15, the commission is called upon to make clear that the state with jurisdiction over waste is the responsible state. we do not think that it is the commission's responsibility to decide this, but we think that it should also be decided in an international convention. the important thing is to ensure consistency on the future convention on ship recycling and the basle convention on the transboundary control and disposal of hazardous waste, and all this taking into account not only the basle convention but all existing legislation.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner figel', ladies and gentlemen, this report was unanimously adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. it is not only an excellent result but, given the difficulty, complexity and controversial nature of the issues it deals with, an exceptional result which should give impetus and firm grounding to the new pillar of private action which is indispensable to the effective implementation of community competition policy. it is a new step towards a more advanced and effective competition policy, more respectful of the rights of victims and more effective in holding the offender to account. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr lehne, who has the key responsibility for the success of this mission. the quality of their approaches, their open and dialogic spirit and their intelligence in extracting the best compromises have been key to achieving this. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, the alternative rapporteurs and the amendments, who have contributed so positively to the enrichment of the report. the commission's white paper on actions for damages for breach of the community competition rules responds to an express request by the european parliament in connection with the green paper resolution, the content of which it welcomes to a large extent. this is the case when, among other things, it defends the complementary nature of public and private actions, and is in favour of collective actions, although avoiding the excesses of us class actions, thus facilitating the claim for damages; when it proposes access to relevant information under judicial control, although without authorizing a fishing expedition, and when it recognizes and postulates the exercise of autonomous or monitoring actions and a voluntary compensation system. this report defends the european parliament's codecision in establishing the legal framework for the exercise of actions for damages for breach of the community competition rules. this position should not be understood as a rejection of the community competition policy as the legal basis of the legislation, but as a raising of the requirements of the ordinary procedure in this area to meet higher values recognised in the treaty. where a regulation affects in a significant way a fundamental right, such as the right of citizens to effective judicial protection, which is part of the european and member states' legal systems, the democratic principle and respect for national legal traditions, which require that such matters can be regulated only by rules of a legal nature, that is to say, with the intervention of the direct representatives of the citizens, require legislative participation by the european parliament. it also proposes a horizontal and integrated approach to address the common problems that private actions in competition law may have with other areas and thus avoid fragmentary and inconsistent treatment. the exercise of private actions can be promoted by a public actor and also through individual or collective actions. this second method can be implemented directly by the victims or indirectly through qualified bodies, designated in advance or authorized on an ad hoc basis, such as consumer and business associations. in the case of actions promoted by qualified entities, the group of victims should be defined at the time of the application, but the identification of each victim may be carried out at a later, clearly defined, time and as soon as possible, avoiding unnecessary delays and respecting existing legislation. this solution is very important for minor and scattered damage cases. the report presents, in a balanced way, the access to information necessary for the exercise of monitoring actions. the protection of trade secrets must be safeguarded, as must the effectiveness of leniency programmes, for which guidelines are required. the conditions are laid down for decisions taken by an authority in the community network of competition authorities to become binding in another member state and for the burden of proof to be reversed and the presumption of fault to be established where an infringement has been established, in full respect of the principle of culpability. the reception of the 'passing-on' defence for indirect victims and a scheme to simplify and save procedures are also noteworthy. i would also like to stress the positive interaction between public and private action, both in encouraging compensation for victims and in setting the five-year period for action. i would like to conclude by expressing my appreciation to the commission for the dialogue that has been maintained throughout this procedure and by asking the commissioner to present without delay the initiatives necessary for its further development.
member of the commission. − madam president, before going into the content of this proposal, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr siekierski, and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for their work on this report. i would like to start by putting today’s debate into context, because this proposal is not about paragraphs, political power or promises: it is about people. millions of europeans are hit by difficult economic times and by the rapid rise we have seen in food prices since 2007. there are more people than we realise for whom the lack of adequate food is a daily concern: 43 million europeans cannot afford a meal with meat, chicken or fish every second day. i think that is a striking figure. the programme for the most deprived targets those in our society who are in need of food aid: people who worry whether they can feed their children tomorrow; people who do not think about what they will eat that night for dinner but about whether they will have anything to eat; people who enter no restaurant but the one carrying the name of resto du cœur. with more than 13 million poor people benefiting from the programme, with 19 member states participating and with the scheme being a stable outlet for intervention products, this programme has certainly shown its value. parliament recognised this already in 2006, when it called on the council and the commission to place the programme on a permanent footing for the future and to extend the distribution of foodstuffs, without restricting it to the products for which intervention applies. i am pleased to note that the report by mr siekierski endorses the commission’s approach and agrees that it is necessary to keep the programme within the common agricultural policy. this is particularly important at a time when some claim that feeding people has nothing to do with our agriculture policy. until now, the programme has been financed exclusively by the community budget. our proposal now includes cofinancing. that is a significant change, but i believe it is a fundamental improvement of the scheme. cofinancing will enable the total funds available for this measure to be more in balance with the real needs; it will encourage member states to take greater responsibility for the programme’s management, and it is also a way to strengthen the cohesive element, since cohesion countries will have less cofinancing. at the same time, i share the view that we should not run the risk of member states withdrawing from the scheme. therefore, we proposed a gradual phasing-in of cofinancing rates in order to maintain the difference between the cohesion and non-cohesion member states. i agree that we should do more to guarantee the nutritional quality of the food distributed. as the rapporteur mentioned, this could mean including fresh produce, in most cases produced locally. but it is not appropriate to outlaw foreign products or products coming from outside the european union, as proposed in your report. that would mean additional and burdensome controls. it could be seen as a signal of eu protectionism, and it could even be questioned by our wto partners. that being said, the large majority of the food distributed will in reality be produced in the european union, mainly from intervention stocks and most probably from the tenders that we are now making, in particular in the dairy sector. given that charities are heavily involved in the scheme, our proposal gives the possibility to reimburse the transport and administrative costs of the ngos. you suggest that storage costs should be covered as well. i am fundamentally in favour of this idea, but i cannot agree to your suggestion of leaving it to the member states to fix the rates of reimbursement. we need to set the same maximum rate for all participating countries, not least to make sure that the programme remains efficient and keeps the focus on supplying food. finally, let me stress that the council is waiting for the outcome of today’s debate and vote before continuing its discussions. i hope ministers have used the waiting time constructively. and from today’s debate should, therefore, be sent a clear message: do not forget those waiting in line at the soup kitchen or waiting for the next food package. so do not wait too long! we need to put this food aid scheme on a permanent footing for the future.
opinion of the committee on regional development - madam president, the economic crisis in europe will lead to an increase in the number of people below the poverty line in the coming years. that number is now 80 million, or 16 percent of the world's population. in a crisis scenario, it is essential to ensure the continuity of food supply to those most in need. with the gradual elimination of intervention stocks, an instrument which has hitherto been very useful for the supply of food to the poorest in the community is also disappearing, while at the same time ensuring stability in the prices received by european producers. it would be desirable if the new programme of aid to the poorest also served to give a start to community production. in this way we would be contributing to the maintenance of farmers within rural areas. the european commission proposal does not require the food to be included in the programme to be of exclusively community origin, as it considers that this would be contrary to the rules of the world trade organisation, but i would like to remind the commission that a country like the united states devotes no more and no less than 67% of the budget in its agricultural law to nutrition programmes for the most disadvantaged people, and also serves as a complement to aid for its farmers and cattle farmers in particular. this is in contrast to the cost of the new community programme, which would be only 1% of the cap budget.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, with whom we have a great deal in common on this programme, and congratulate us all, because in times of economic crisis it is essential to maintain a programme like this, with clear positive social effects. although we are facing a consultation procedure, we must send a clear political signal from the european parliament, in these times of economic uncertainty, from brussels and strasbourg, that we are not exclusively or only concerned about a recovery of the financial system, but that we are fully aware that social policies, especially those which support those who need it most, the poorest in the european union, have to grow. this food distribution programme must continue to be considered part of the common agricultural policy - and we agree with the commission on this - not only because european agriculture has a strong social dimension, but also because it is a functioning instrument, because it is needed now more than ever and because it must continue to function. the socialist group, like the rapporteur, is against the cofinancing of this programme by the european union and the member states, since this would mean discrimination between countries on the basis of their wealth and the programme might not be able to be implemented in the countries most in need. it is not understandable that now, when we need it most, the commission wants to save community money on the more social side of the cap, especially when we take into account that there are budgetary surpluses in the agricultural budget every year. full community funding is essential for us. we need to make sure that this programme reaches all countries and especially the most needy. the 43 million potential beneficiaries of this programme are asking us to make a greater effort and in no case to save budgetary expenditure. austerity, yes; but not with the poorest. it is precisely to ensure that they reach the citizens of all the member states that the programme must cover the entire route of the food distributed. the socialist group, for which i am responsible for the report, has therefore tabled an amendment to ensure that all costs of distribution, including transport, storage and administrative costs, are covered by community funds. we also agree with the rapporteur that food should preferably be community food and of good quality. it is the position which is consistent with that taken by this parliament in other similar programmes which we have recently discussed in this house, such as the school fruit scheme. that's all, and thank you very much. we hope that the commission will take parliament's position into account when it votes and, above all, that the plan will be put into effect in the european union as soon as possible.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr siekierski because i think this is an excellent report, which has received a lot of support in the committee on agriculture. for more than 20 years it has been said that the community's intervention stocks have been used to provide food aid to those most in need. the problem, mr stevenson, is that successive reforms of the cap have reduced these interventions to the limit. but i also want to say here that it would be a very bad signal if we were to abolish or attempt to abolish this programme at this very delicate time when many europeans and many european women do not have enough to eat. and it is clear in this sense that when stocks do not arrive - because i have already said that they have been disappearing - we will have to resort to the market. i would like to highlight as positive elements the obligation in the report that, when products are used on the market, they must be community, fresh and of local origin. i also think that 100% community funding is appropriate, because i believe that at the moment this aid should not and cannot depend on the possibilities of each member state, unless we want to look more closely at the possibilities. i also think it is right that the programme should be extended to three years. i would simply point out that the commission is always in time to implement intervention wherever it is necessary or possible and that more than one agricultural sector would appreciate it. i am thinking of the milk producers in my region of galicia, who would benefit from the intervention to help them overcome their difficult situation and at the same time help to provide food for the most deprived.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the commission statement on collective redress.
mr president, in a market without frontiers such as the european one, it is important that, in addition to ensuring the proper functioning of competition, we should be equally concerned with consumer protection. over the past half century, barriers to products have been falling, but, to a large extent, these barriers remain for consumers. abusive commercial practices are often not reported by consumers or pursued by consumer organisations because of the awareness of the difficulty of obtaining compensation. the collective action allows for joint efforts in cases where there are many parties involved and offers a much greater prospect of achieving redress. the cross-border nature of many economic transactions in the european union means that this right to collective redress cannot be confined to national areas. we need a genuine european initiative, which will require a certain degree of harmonisation or approximation between the existing national systems to be effective. the model to be chosen should aim to facilitate access to the system for consumers, avoid excessive burdens and bureaucratization. i therefore believe that preference should be given to alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, which are the most flexible, and to simplified judicial procedures with reduced costs.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank you for all your valuable opinions. in a way, i am familiar with most of them because we have been discussing, point by point, the most important parts of your concerns and hopes for having collective redress in europe. i should like to reiterate once again that i am totally with you in not wanting us-style class actions to be introduced into european culture. i know that is one of your most important preoccupations. as ms mccarthy also mentioned, this is about damages. this is already happening in the uk, but this has nothing to do with what we are discussing and what i am proposing as our future steps in this direction. in this respect, i would like to stress the following. checking to see whether there is a real need for collective redress: yes, we are doing that and we will continue to do so after the green paper. respecting constitutional constraints: yes. avoiding us-style class action: yes. ensuring that damages are compensated, including all costs incurred by the consumer but, at the same time, excluding any element of punitive damage: yes, that is what we have in mind. discouraging unmeritorious claims, as referred to by mr rack: yes. promoting alternative dispute resolution schemes: of course, because this is less time-consuming, more affordable and easier for both consumers and businesses, and also respecting subsidiarity. with these few words, i would like to say that we are fully aware of the challenges and we are ready to face these challenges and make a good proposal, step by step, building consensus and common understanding with you. what i really appreciate today is that all of us recognise that we have a problem and that we are ready to address this problem. so this really is a very good starting point for the next stage of debates. as this is a challenge we face, i would like in particular to stress what mr lehne referred to – the common approach, the horizontal approach with commissioner kroes. commissioner kroes and myself, as well as our respective services, are cooperating very closely in order to ensure that our initiatives are consistent and produce synergies. the consistency principle does not necessarily rule out that specific situations require specific solutions. each of the two initiatives has a distinct focus. whereas the consumer green paper deals with redress for breaches of consumer protection law, the competition white paper is strictly about competition law infringements. another major difference between the two initiatives is that, whereas the consumer green paper only covers redress for consumers, the redress mechanism suggested in the competition white paper is designed to benefit both consumers and businesses. so my challenge is to achieve effective redress for our consumers and thereby restore their confidence in the market. from previous discussions, i know that the european parliament is supporting us in our efforts to achieve this goal. let me stress again that parliament, together with member states and stakeholders, will be convinced that not only is there a problem but also that an effective and balanced solution must and can be found at european level. i should like to thank you for this fruitful debate and your valuable opinions, and i look forward to working with you on this file over the coming months.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
mr president, i have obviously voted against the auken report and i would like to say that the report that has been adopted is a report which is against the law. it is not at all in keeping with the principles of law which the european union is proclaiming. it is absolutely humiliating that the european parliament has been able to approve this document, which a report by the legal services describes as a document full of illegalities and not in accordance with the law. here the support is being given - and the socialist party has been promoting it for several years - to stop construction, as if that would solve the problems. this document does not solve the real problems people have. that has been solved, to a large extent, by changing a law - as has been done - and by the effort being made by the spanish authorities to correct errors which have obviously been made. finally, i would point out that the destruction of a large part of the houses is due to the misapplication of the coastal law by the spanish socialist government of zapatero, which is acting arbitrarily and expropriating arbitrarily in just one area of spain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the auken report because it clearly criticises the wild urbanism of the spanish state and points to the misuse of community funds in urban planning and the environment. i would also like to point out the clumsiness of the spanish pp and psoe members. they have not been able to agree to submit a joint alternative resolution which would have the majority, and both have been rejected. they have made it clear once again that the only thing they agree on is to go against basque nationalism. the socialists and the people's party have tried to put pressure on their colleagues to vote in favour of their respective resolutions, which greatly alleviated the criticisms of the rapporteur. i want to make it clear that the spanish government is engaged in a practice that is systematically linked to abuses of citizens, environmental destruction and corruption on a large scale, and i believe that this competence must be immediately transferred to euskadi.
in writing. - having participated from the outset in the preparation of the auken report, which has attracted the support of spanish and european citizens, i have defended its content without reservation because it highlights the responsibility of all spanish administrations, from the government to the regional and local administrations, in the development of an economic model based on urban speculation, devastating for the environment, the economy and the social development of spain. the report, which has withstood pressure from the pp and psoe, warns of the slowness of resolutions, both political and judicial, which has led to great impunity for administrations, and includes the declaration of a moratorium on urban plans that do not respect the criteria of environmental sustainability and social responsibility, allowing to analyze irregularities, to avoid a policy of fait accompli. the report also calls on the spanish government to set up a working committee involving all the administrations, a public debate on urban development in spain to take legislative measures against speculation and unsustainable development and to put an end to the unilateral legislation developed in autonomous communities such as aragon and valencia.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank parliament for giving us the opportunity to address, during this session, the issue of the relationship with russia. as you certainly know, the council discussed the relationship with russia in depth some time ago, when we established the grounds and the rationale for the new eu-russia agreement, and thus we consider it important that the negotiations for the new agreement are back on track. after all, russia is our biggest neighbour, one of our key partners and an indispensable player on the international scene. nowadays, when the economic crisis is hitting both of us equally hard, it is clear that confrontations will make neither of us any stronger. constructive, rational and mutually beneficial cooperation and fulfilment of international commitments by russia, on the other hand, certainly could. moreover, a dialogue and a constructive engagement are important means of defending our interests and promoting our values vis-à-vis russia. this, in a nutshell, provided the main impetus for our decision to resume the negotiations on the new eu-russia agreement, despite what happened in georgia last august. the crisis and its implications continue, certainly, to overshadow our relations. the negotiations in no way legitimise russia’s conduct in georgia, including in the territories of abkhazia and south ossetia, and the eu has its red lines clearly set in this respect. our support for the territorial integrity of georgia is clearly one of them. we continue to expect russia to behave responsibly and to honour all its commitments. this in particular means that we will pay special attention to our common neighbourhood with russia throughout the entire negotiation process. the crisis in georgia has demonstrated how unresolved conflicts can remain volatile even after many years, and that military action is not a solution. we have to remind russia that it has much to gain from behaving constructively towards its neighbours, and that it has much to lose if it continues on the path of confrontation. russia has, after all, already proved that it knows how to behave towards central european neighbours that are now part of both the eu and nato. we will continue to insist that russia must abide by its international commitments and respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of georgia and other eastern european countries that make up its common neighbourhood with the eu. full cooperation will also be expected from russia as much as from georgia at the geneva talks. i do not intend to set out in detail the current state of negotiations with russia on the new agreement. the commission as the negotiator for the agreement will certainly be in a better position to update you on the process. i should also recall that we are only at the beginning of the process, which could take some time. we should not be discouraged if it only moves slowly at first. i am sure, however, that by the end of our presidency we will have greater clarity on what both sides want the new agreement to cover. we are grateful to janusz onyszkiewicz for his report and the recommendations made in it. in general we share many of your concerns as well as objectives. i would now like to make a few remarks on the external security part of the new agreement, where the presidency also plays a role in the negotiations. it is of the utmost importance that the new agreement should contain provision to ensure effective dialogue and cooperation with russia, and should be based on common values, compliance with the existing international commitments, the rule of law and respect for democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms. this is particularly important in relation to our common neighbourhood. indeed, it is essential if we are to see a solution to long-standing conflicts. conflict prevention is also an important objective. it needs to be pursued through both political dialogue and joint initiatives. there is already some movement with russia on the scope of the political dialogue and external security part of the new agreement. but of course the devil is in the detail. the most interesting and challenging part of the negotiations is now beginning, as we begin to discuss concrete text proposals. given that negotiations are ongoing, it would not be appropriate to give you the details here. i can, however, assure you that we will seek to obtain substantial provisions on strengthening dialogue on the international scene, on the fight against terrorism, on arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation, on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, on crisis management and on civil protection. it was agreed at the eu-russia summit in khanty-mansiysk that our shared aim was to conclude a strategic agreement that will provide a comprehensive framework for eu-russia relations for the foreseeable future and help to develop the potential of our relationship. this remains our objective and one that the presidency, as well as the successive presidencies, will continue to work towards. we stand ready to keep this parliament informed of the progress and are grateful for the input which you have provided, in particular through the text of your resolution.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great success. first of all, i would like to thank mr onyszkiewicz for this valuable report. we have always stressed that we value the opinion of parliament and i am of course prepared to keep you informed of the progress of the negotiations. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. russia is and remains an important partner. our common interests are diverse and overlapping. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer. of course, we also have - we all know this - serious differences of opinion, for example on the territorial integrity of georgia. we have repeatedly experienced tensions over the intensification of our role in the common neighbourhood. in this context, it is often wrongly claimed that we are dependent on our large neighbour. we are probably interdependent in trade and energy, or i should say we have become indispensable partners for each other. so these are times when our relationship with russia is of great importance and when a unified eu strategy accompanied by visions is indispensable. tomorrow, president obama will meet with president medvedev for the first time to, as he put it, "press the reset button" on the russia relationship. this new approach is certainly to be welcomed. but we can't start from scratch. a reset of our relationship is not necessary, but very much continuous fine-tuning. this is at the top of our priority list. as the commission stated in its communication of 5 november, the complex and extensive nature of our relations and the many areas of interdependence require a consistent engagement with russia. i'd say sober and results-oriented. the negotiations for a new agreement are certainly the best way to present a common eu position defending our interests with the aim of having an agreement on the most important areas. as i speak to you at this moment, the fourth round of negotiations is under way in moscow. we have now agreed on a general structure of the agreement which will provide the legally binding basis for all aspects of our relations for the foreseeable future. at the same time, we have not set ourselves any artificial deadlines in the negotiations themselves. i think we should take as much time as we need to achieve a satisfactory result, because the current agreement will remain in force until then. so we are not necessarily forced to move as fast as possible. we therefore do not need to wait for the new agreement to deal with current issues. the political, judicial and security issues have now been dealt with in such a way that there is a better understanding of our mutual position. we have just started talking about economic issues. it should not surprise us, however, that the two sides have very different approaches to some of these issues. for example, while russia has great ambitions for foreign and security cooperation, it is currently less ambitious on economic issues. of course, we as the eu have an interest in having legally binding and enforceable provisions in trade and economic relations which will then ensure that russia adopts a system based on clear rules. this applies in particular to the energy sector, where we are seeking to adopt the principles of the energy charter: transparency, reciprocity and non-discrimination as the essential ones. the gas crisis at the beginning of the year has undermined confidence in the reliability of our energy relations. that's what we need to fix. we are therefore trying to strengthen, in parallel with the negotiations, the early warning system, which includes provisions for monitoring, observation and, in the event of a crisis, for conflict prevention and resolution. the agreement we are negotiating should of course also be based on respect for human rights and democracy, which we believe are essential elements. finally, russia and the eu - as mr vondra said - have made the same commitments in the un, the osce and the council of europe. our treaty should emphasize respect for these common commitments and interests. of course, this agreement cannot by itself solve the conflicts in europe, but it should provide a framework for conflict resolution. in parallel to our negotiations, we will continue our efforts in the existing fora, for georgia in the geneva talks, in the 5+2 framework for transnistria and in the minsk process for nagorno-karabakh, where i would really welcome the opportunity for a stronger eu involvement. the areas of interest in the negotiations for both sides are - as i said earlier - justice and home affairs, and i see great potential for mutually beneficial cooperation, particularly in the fight against organised crime and also for improving conditions for bona fide travellers. however, the prospect of visa-free travel, as russia has called for, is of course only possible in the context of further improvements in other areas. for example, russia's implementation of higher standards for the protection of personal data would also facilitate our good cooperation in general. research, education and culture also offer many opportunities for cooperation in the interests of our citizens and should be taken into account in the new agreement. the report we are debating today, of course, contains many other proposals which i cannot discuss here for the time being, but which will of course be discussed later in the debate. i would like to stress once again that i wholeheartedly welcome the line taken by mr onyszkiewicz in this report and in the motion for a resolution put to the vote. if there is a need for information beyond today's debate, i would of course welcome it if my services could, for example, give the foreign affairs committee a full briefing at any time, as they did last year. in conclusion, i would like to stress that a successful outcome of the negotiations is an important concern for me, which i fully support. a good treaty will, i hope, put eu-russia relations on a solid and predictable basis for the foreseeable future and thus make an important contribution to security and stability on our continent!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, for us and for europe, for the itre commission and for us in europe, it is clear that energy has become an instrument of foreign policy, an element of change that can generate conflict and can unite us, and that is precisely the issue we are dealing with today. europe's tradition with russia has been one of unity. our history shows that white russia developed on the basis of a clear influence from the west, and the russian tradition has been, both from the religious point of view and from the point of view of all education and much of the thought, a european thought that enriched russia; and the tradition of russian scientists, also from kazan, with great mathematicians, and other corners of russia, as well as their literature, have enriched our culture. i think we should think that the tensions of the socialist era were a parenthesis that we should remember, but they are not a constant. our constant with russia has been union; that is why i say that in this energy field, where europe is in deficit, we must warn russia that we must remain friends, but with clear rules of the game, as the gentlemen always had them and as we always have had them, now with written rules. we cannot live in the permanent uncertainty that our citizens will be cut off from energy supplies, but russia must also understand that it cannot use energy as an instrument to deny the sovereignty of the surrounding states. there is a de facto state of affairs, of peoples who have achieved their sovereignty, who are in full exercise of democracy, which we must safeguard and which russia has a duty to safeguard, as well as a duty to provide clear rules of the game for energy exchange and the union through energy.
russia is a very important international player, a permanent member of the security council and the g8 and a major military power. for these simple reasons the european union should seek to establish a relationship of dialogue and cooperation with russia. many member states are also energy dependent on it and trade with it in a significant economic way. but the relationship should go further, be more ambitious. russia is a european country, a member of the council of europe, which has made commitments on human rights and democratic freedoms and which must share with us a number of values and principles, including respect for international law and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states. however, recent events show a worrying trend in russia. for example, the use of energy resources as a weapon of pressure, including the cutting of supply, or the crisis in georgia last summer and the events that followed. however, confidence in russia as a european partner has deteriorated. now we have to try to regain that trust. we want a constructive partnership with russia, a partnership of genuine europeans, but for that to happen, russia must behave differently. in the european union, for many reasons, including historical ones, the member states have different views on relations with russia, so it is not easy to reach a common position. it is one of our weaknesses, one of our problems, but alongside what we might call pragmatic or realistic views, there is also a growing conviction in this parliament that those partners with whom we want very close relations must behave in accordance with international law and respect fundamental rights and freedoms, especially if they are partners who belong to the great european family. this parliament welcomed president medvedev's commitment to human rights and the rule of law at the beginning of his mandate, but words must be backed up by facts. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to believe that in the future the european union will find in russia a permanent, structural partner who shares our ideal values, but today it seems clear to me that this future is not so close.
the arctic region is one of the most fragile regions on our planet. the consequences of unrestricted exploitation of their natural resources would be catastrophic not only for the immediate environment and the indigenous population, but for the world as a whole. the melting of large areas has brought these risks to the fore, making a new global regulation to protect the arctic, similar to the one already in place for the antarctic, necessary, even taking into account the differences already highlighted in the debate. an international treaty is needed between all the parties involved, including, no doubt, the european union, to protect its unique environment, to ensure the full sustainability of all human activities and to regulate navigation in the newly accessible sea lanes on a multilateral basis. the arctic council, during its several years of existence, has been a model of cooperation in managing common problems. in these difficult and uncertain times, we must take this spirit and this synergy to new heights, to prevent the states of the region or other international actors from engaging in geostrategic battles, forgetting what should be the common objective: the preservation of a great shared heritage.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would like to stress one fundamental fact: the european project cannot have any credibility if it is not also perceived as an area in which there is no discrimination whatsoever. this is the basis of the debate, which is what we are talking about. and so it surprises me that some of my colleagues, who are so pro-european in whatever debates, when it comes to rights and freedoms, become completely anti-european. it is intolerable, unacceptable that today in the european union, someone is discriminated against because he or she loves a person of the same sex, or because he or she is older, or because he or she has a disability, or, as has also been said, because he or she has a faith or a religion that is not considered the standard. this is not the europe i want to live in and this is definitely not the europe i work for every day in this house and outside this house. that is why i think the proposal for a directive was necessary. she's good in her idea, in her principles. it's not what i would have done; it's not what many of us here would have done, but it's a good starting point. the direction is the right one and i therefore hope that the majority, as i will do, will approve this report tomorrow, the buitenweg report, and that, above all, they will approve another element, which is the incorporation of article 7 (2), which is the one that guarantees a fundamental element: that all the associations and organisations working on these issues can also act as advocates, as legitimate representatives of the discriminated people, because let us remember that it is precisely these people who are part of the most vulnerable groups. that is why we must also have the guarantee that they can be represented and properly defended.
mr president, the proposal for a directive we are debating today projects the principle of equality as a hallmark of the european project. it must therefore be approached with ambition, in order to contribute to the achievement of full community citizenship, and must be reflected not only in the design of public policies and the actions of administrations, but also in relations between individuals. we must move forward so that all citizens can exercise and enjoy their rights to the full, regardless of belief, age, sexual orientation, disability and, of course, taking into account multiple discriminations. it should be noted that the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination must be respected not only in the field of community policies but also in that of national policies, in order to make the principle of equality a reality throughout europe and thus to achieve an adequate level of protection against all the grounds of discrimination set out in article 13 of the treaty. this initiative should give us greater tools to react to possible discriminatory behaviour, behaviour which is unfortunately still a reality today, as the union agency for fundamental rights pointed out yesterday in its report on homophobia. ladies and gentlemen of the people's party, do not disguise your speeches with vain excuses, because your vote against is evidence of a clear ideological stance. the fight against discrimination is of vital interest and jeopardises the very existence of the union's values. so today, in this parliament, we have the responsibility and the obligation to take a step forward in defending and promoting equality in europe. we cannot give up our hopes and our wishes to advance a project of values. european citizens and especially the most vulnerable would not forgive him.
the rapporteur, mr president, would first like to thank all the members of the committee on regional policy for making it possible and facilitating the reaching of an important agreement today on the amendment of these regulations, which will allow the proposed series of amendments to be put into effect immediately. the european union is facing an unprecedented economic crisis which has led to a recession in most of its member states. under the european economic recovery plan with measures to stimulate investment, the european commission adopted a series of proposals to introduce changes to the regulations for the structural and cohesion funds, with two clear priorities: accelerating spending to provide more liquidity, and simplifying the rules to allow for faster implementation of projects. this package of revisions is intended as a temporary response to a critical situation, but in fact it also responds to a demand for greater simplification and flexibility which the european parliament has reiterated on several occasions. i would like to briefly outline the proposed amendments, so that you will understand the importance of them in achieving the objectives we have set ourselves: increasing the support of the european investment bank and the european investment fund, also enabling increased financial support for technical activities relating to the preparation and implementation of projects; simplifying the eligibility of expenditure; increasing the pre-financing for the regional development fund and the european social fund, the total amount of additional advance through this measure being eur 6 250 million; speeding up expenditure on major projects by abolishing the current maximum rate of 35% of advance payments, thus allowing advances of up to 100% for recipients of public aid. we in parliament are aware that these measures must be adopted as quickly as possible to meet the immediate liquidity needs of the member states and we are aware that they will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the regions and municipalities throughout europe. last week we discussed the future of cohesion policy with unanimous agreement that this policy, with capital letters, has made it possible to advance the economic and social development of a large part of our regions. in this time of great uncertainty it is more important than ever to defend these principles of solidarity and cooperation between the territories, because citizens need to see how we are able, from europe, to contribute to breaking out of a tunnel that is sending millions of people into situations of real difficulty. today more than ever we need strong instruments to solve these problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in addition, thanks to the european social fund, training and retraining initiatives can be developed to integrate the most vulnerable and most difficult sectors into the labour market, such as women, the disabled and the long-term unemployed, because we must not forget that these are also the most vulnerable sectors in crisis situations. i would like to reiterate, however, as we have done in the explanatory statement of the report, that parliament wished to have had a greater involvement in the preparation of the proposals, both in terms of quantity and quality, but we are also aware of the urgency with which they have had to be dealt with. we are therefore aware of the reality we are facing at the moment and we certainly support these proposals for measures to modify the structural funds in order to move towards a solution to the present situation.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i would first of all like to thank mrs garcía pérez, mrs jöns and mr angelaka, who have made an excellent report, and all the members who have spoken. the vast majority of these interventions supported the measures proposed by the commission, stressing their relevance in effectively combating the effects of the crisis on the european economy. on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank you for this. your speeches underlined the european parliament's concern to equip the european union with the means to counter the effects of the crisis on the ground. you have stressed the need for rapid action, that is our objective. the czech presidency, which i thank for its support, has also committed itself to allowing the final adoption of the regulations as soon as possible. on a reasonably optimistic assumption, the new regulations could enter into force in the next few weeks, and thus have a rapid effect on the operational programmes. in particular, advances could be paid in full at the beginning of may. other interventions also stressed the need for rigorous monitoring of the implementation of these measures and the submission of a report in 2010 highlighting the results achieved. this is the commitment made by the commission and it is contained in the statement i gave to the presidency. it took the european institutions just four months to prepare and approve this package of legislation. i would like to mention a little the subject of energy efficiency, which has been the subject of many speeches. i would like to inform parliament that a workshop on this subject will be held in june at a seminar with the managing authorities of the member states. we ask member states to describe their implementation intentions in their strategic reports to be drawn up by the end of 2009. of course, as things stand, it is up to the member states to define the criteria and eligible measures for energy efficiency. that is subsidiarity. but it is true that an energy efficiency directive is under consideration and, once that energy efficiency directive has been adopted, it will of course have to be applied. on the other hand, i am happy to join all the members who have stressed how the research into energy efficiency in buildings has the dual advantage of creating jobs and then being able to prepare for the future and help us solve the problems of global warming. i would also like to point out that, beyond this crisis, which has, in a way, generated very close cooperation between the institutions, it is obviously increasingly important to be able to establish a partnership between the commission and parliament based on a high level of trust. the commission sought to respond effectively to the challenge posed by the economic and financial crisis and, at the same time, it wanted to take advantage of this interactive discussion with the member states and the european parliament to respond to the requests for simplification of these procedures and policies. of course, additional proposals could have been accepted as part of the recovery plan. they have not all been accepted, but they will contribute to the commission's thinking on how to strengthen the effects of the recovery plan and provide additional facilities for the national authorities in charge of projects. the commission set up a working group on simplification last november. its work has already resulted in a draft revision of the commission's implementing regulation. other proposals for amendments to the general regulation and the fund-specific regulations may follow. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, of course all the comments made in this debate will be very useful and others will also be welcome. i would like to thank the european parliament in particular for its commitment to resolving the serious problems posed by the crisis more quickly. the amendments tabled by mrs schroedter to the draft erdf regulation concern three recitals and one substance. as regards the recitals - amendments 8 to 10 - their adoption would not have changed the general scheme of the commission's proposals, but would have prolonged the procedure for adopting the regulation. as regards the amendment on the substance, the commission has no objection in principle. however, it seeks to adopt a measure which was not included in the council's compromise text because it was difficult to implement in the member states. i had to give these details, and i did so at the end of my speech. i would like to thank parliament once again for allowing us to act more quickly to limit the painful effects of the crisis, which some of you have very well mentioned and recalled.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to say that i think you will be aware that it is no mere coincidence that there has been practical unanimity in this house, in this debate, on the proposal that is being discussed. as my colleague mrs creţu said, it really was a demonstration of political will, of the fact that we can do our bit to find a solution to the current crisis situation which is really causing real difficulties and needs for european citizens. but it was also an exercise of responsibility, and you have pointed this out; an exercise of responsibility, i mean, because we were aware that this proposal which was put to us could perhaps have been improved. we could have made other additions to allow for greater speed up or simplification, but we were aware that in order to put these measures into effect as quickly as possible, it was necessary that the reports be in the form they are at the moment. i therefore simply wish to make a request to the commission: since, as you have announced, there is already a draft revision to extend the simplification of procedures, i hope that on this occasion parliament can play a greater role in the debate and in the development of initiatives aimed at improving simplification, because it is a demand not only of this house but also of the local administrations, which are the ones most directly involved in these projects and are aware of the need to be able to put the various initiatives into practice.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, the european commission has learned with dismay of the sinking of a migrant boat en route to europe in the mediterranean off the coast of libya on sunday evening. according to some sources, there were 257 people on board, most of whom are missing. the commission wishes to express its sympathy for the victims of this human disaster and its anger at this tragedy, the causes of which are undoubtedly multiple and for which the main responsibility lies with the criminal organizations which, from the libyan coast, direct this murderous clandestine traffic and thus enrich themselves at the expense of human misery. the commission considers it intolerable that this phenomenon, which has tended to intensify over the years, continues to develop. it calls on all parties concerned to mobilise their efforts to bring it to an end. libya has a vital role to play here. it should be more determined and effective in its efforts to combat traffickers operating on its territory, to prevent illegal departures from its coasts, to search and rescue at sea ships in distress in waters under its jurisdiction, and to offer international protection to migrants in need, in accordance with its obligations under the 1969 pan-african convention for the protection of refugees, to which it is a signatory. in recent years, the european commission has repeatedly called on the libyan authorities to assume their responsibilities and put in place effective measures, in cooperation with the european union and its member states. i should like to say that we have offered increased financial assistance to libya, but it is clear that the libyan authorities must use this assistance to improve the fight against the smuggling of migrants and human beings in their territory and to strengthen controls at their southern border. the libyan authorities must also develop a system for the reception of migrants in accordance with international law. it is true that the european union is ready to cooperate and to contribute to the interception and, if necessary, to the rescue of ships in the mediterranean. the launch in the coming months of the two naval operations nautilus and hermès, organized and financed by frontex, our european external border agency, will cost about 24 million. the commission invites all member states of the european union to cooperate in the implementation of these two actions. the member states must also show their concrete solidarity with italy and malta, which are very exposed to the migration flows from libya. and libya will have to take responsibility for the readmission of irregular migrants who have passed through its territory. we have noted that the italian authorities consider it possible to launch joint patrols with the libyan navy in libyan territorial waters from 15 may in order to intercept or rescue illegal vessels. we welcome the support of the italian authorities for the development of libya's naval capabilities to this end. but beyond these emergency measures, the commission believes that priority action must be given to the whole human dimension of these problems. the vast majority of migrants who entrust their lives to unscrupulous traffickers are people fleeing war or persecution. we hope that the events of the last few days will make all our member states aware of the seriousness of the problem and that we can, with the member states and with the support of the european parliament, prepare a stockholm programme which will devote a large part of its priorities to this comprehensive approach to migration. the global approach is needed to develop a long-term strategy for managing migration flows that takes greater account of the situations and needs of countries of origin. on the other hand, this strategy should make it possible to deepen the dialogue with african partners, particularly in the context of the rabat process, in the context of relations between the european union and the african union. we must identify together common responses to this challenge and also seize the opportunities offered by regular migration, which can indeed be an opportunity both for europe and for the countries of origin. the strategy should also mobilise additional resources by stepping up cooperation with countries of origin and transit to strengthen their capacity to dismantle human trafficking organisations and to treat migrants with dignity and respect for their rights. the strategy should also make it possible to better manage and organise the arrival of legitimate asylum seekers on the territory of the member states by further integrating capacity building in the field of refugee protection into cooperation with third countries. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i visited lampedusa and malta two weeks ago. i must say that i have seen and heard with my own eyes the tragedies of these people who are thus incited by unscrupulous smugglers to cross maritime spaces at the risk of their lives. i think i can say that, following this latest incident, we must take these problems very seriously and raise awareness in each of our member states of the seriousness and the acceleration of these phenomena, which endanger the lives of human beings in appalling conditions. i therefore thank the european parliament for having kindly requested this statement from the commission. i do so in my heart and soul, and i repeat to parliament my personal commitment in the months ahead to prevent such tragedies from happening again.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the mediterranean, and we are therefore asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the mediterranean is not further worsened. they are innocent victims of an origin they did not choose, of circumstances that were imposed on them. i know the problem well. the mediterranean and the atlantic frontage of the canary islands have become for many, who have nothing, an inevitable path to a non-existent gold, full of risks in transit and of frustrations and hardships at the point of arrival. the european union and the member states must be more sensitive to prevent these tragedies. we do a lot, but it's of little use. the results are as harsh as we have seen on the libyan coast and should make us think about the limited effectiveness of our policies. there are no magic recipes for finding absolutely effective solutions to the drama, but there are persistent and determined policies. we must have and maintain sound policies of cooperation with the countries of origin and transit; cooperation and collaboration must be two sides of the same coin. we need to better regulate and publicise the benefits of legal, concerted immigration, even in times of crisis. we must cooperate and cooperate with the countries of origin and transit in controlling their borders, on the basis of specific agreements. we must use intelligence and specialised forces to pursue the traffickers in their networks and at the same time strengthen the penal codes in the countries of destination. we must provide more and better resources for the external borders fund; eur 1 820 million for seven years is clearly not enough. we must effectively strengthen frontex and ensure that the media catalogue, the crate, is not a declaration of intent but an effective instrument for coordinated monitoring and surveillance of the most pressing, most clandestine, critical points. commissioner, nautilus and hermes and 24 million euro mean more commitment and more resources. we have to stop saying "we have to". so, with or without a global approach, we have to take on this tough responsibility.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i will be brief. the important thing is to act, and i echo what president deprez said. we must move towards this comprehensive approach, towards partnership agreements, because we cannot solve the problems unilaterally. i am prepared to admit, as you have pointed out, that we europeans have responsibilities. we must also be open to the question of legal migration. we must also fulfil our duty to welcome people fleeing persecution and war. but that said, and i am sure you will allow me to say this and to remind the european parliament with great truth, the responsibility also lies with a number of third countries with which it is very difficult to negotiate. but does that mean that we should give up negotiating? - no , please ! we must, for example, ensure that libya finally has an asylum system. we need to get libya to help us arrest a number of smugglers, who are putting these poor people at risk. i myself have heard the maltese authorities say that libya was letting a number of ships go under deplorable conditions and that the maltese navy was then forced to go and rescue these poor people who were being exploited by smugglers. so, yes, we must assume our responsibilities, but at the same time we must show a certain firmness in negotiations with a number of states which do not fulfil their international obligations. i think that is at least enough to mobilise us all together to prevent such tragic incidents from happening again.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mr lax, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing a community code on visas (com ((2006) 0403 - c6-0254/2006 - 2006/0142 (cod)) (a6-0161/2008).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to answer mr marinescu that i am of course trying to obtain reciprocity from third countries and that my last trip to washington was partly about this problem. i am glad that mr lax has done a very good job and that he has been rewarded with a very wide approval. i would add that we also have a strategy to facilitate the issuing of visas with a number of countries and i have high hopes that this strategy will be developed to facilitate, as far as possible, the issuing of visas, particularly for young people from third countries, because i believe that there is a great deal to be gained by facilitating the entry of young people into europe. thank you for the good approach which enables us to conclude this text and thus bring a new quality to visa policy which will be much appreciated.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 2 april 2009.
the next item is the commission statement on the evaluation of driving hours and rest periods.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened carefully to what everyone has said. i would say that this regulation is in a period of transition since we are talking about transport and it is obviously very important for road safety also for social reasons. i would like to reassure those who have expressed the concerns of the profession. the commission is aware of the gradual implementation of the regulation adopted by the european parliament and the council. it is in contact with the social partners, the experts in the member states, for the gradual harmonization according to the needs of its interpretation. it is true that the commission adopted, on 30 january 2009, a directive harmonising the definitions of infringement and that, as regards penalties, it will publish a report on that subject, as required by article 10 of directive 2006/22. this report will show that fines differ between member states, but also according to the categorisation of offences. that's a first point. i also reply to mrs wortmann-kool, who spoke of the need for drivers to find a safe parking place and who fought for more drivers, that the regulation provides for the possibility of driving longer to find that safe parking place. so it is true that mr liberadzki has just said 'be careful not to over-compress the sector', but you also know that this is to ensure that the sector does not experience safety risks and it is a way of protecting drivers against some of the risks they take. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a new provision on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens. mr marinescu, i think we are trying to assess the application constantly, but it is true that we cannot discuss legislative provisions again at the moment. we must give these regulations time to create new habits, habits which i remain convinced will be beneficial to the whole sector, in that they harmonize working conditions a little better, both for the sake of respect for the personal lives of drivers and for better safety. that's all i can say. in any case, i will of course be your interpreter to my friend antonio tajani, so that he can ensure that this evaluation continues as closely as possible to the ground and in the light of all the findings that have been made and in particular, mr president, the relevant remarks made this evening by the various members who have spoken.
the debate is closed.
the following is the joint debate on- the report by salvatore tatarella, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a community eco-label scheme (com ((2008) 0401 - c6-0279/2008 - 2008/0152 ((cod)) and- the report by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the voluntary participation by organisations in a community eco-management and audit scheme (emas) (com ((2008) 0402 - c6-0278/2008 - 2008/0154 ((cod)).
mr. tatarella, can you hear me? you have five minutes now and two minutes at the end of the debate; if you use the seven minutes now, you will have no time at the end of the debate, but it is up to you to choose whether you want to use the seven now or whether you want to use the five or six you already have and leave a minute to respond to the interventions of colleagues.
madam president, the commitment to sustainable production has the advantage that it benefits both the competitiveness of companies and the interests of consumers in terms of quality of life and individual commitment to the environment. the eco-label is a good instrument in this respect and the reinforcing measures we are discussing here today are therefore to be welcomed. the eco-label covers a very limited number of products, is still little known by consumers and is often copied without any real accreditation behind it. i am therefore confident that the review we are undertaking in the european institutions will help to tackle these problems. we must also bear in mind another fundamental fact: the eco-label must not reflect the general norm within sustainable production; the eco-label must reflect excellence within sustainable production, which must be increasingly the majority. the challenge we face is to make our economy a green economy; the eco-label must therefore be the ultimate expression of this generalization of good practice in respect of the environment. in the committee on the internal market we had a first exchange of views this week on the report on textile product names and related labelling, for which i am the rapporteur. the textile sector is a good example of how we must not only make the approval procedures for new products, in this case new fibres, more flexible, but also strive to consolidate the eco-label, together with wider measures, so that the whole sector can move towards sustainability. only then will we be able to compete with other markets for more indiscriminate products and only then will we be able to meet the demands of consumers, which are fortunately increasingly demanding.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to start by sincerely thanking the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, commissioner piebalgs and ambassador reinišová for the excellent cooperation during the first three months of this year. that cooperation has been the main engine of the successful outcome we will be voting on this week. negotiations have been long, complex and sometimes tough, but i think we have managed to get an agreement that is satisfactory to all parties. regarding the overall package, as it has been negotiated, parliament can be proud of the final text. indeed, our very strong first-reading agreement on ownership unbundling gave the negotiating team a lot of leverage during the talks. this has allowed us to obtain a much tighter regulatory framework, in particular in countries with the ito model in place, where the competencies of national regulators will be increased, with independence from both governments and industry. this new role will reduce the risk of uncompetitive behaviour, especially in circumstances where vertically integrated companies abuse their position to stop investments in new capacity. furthermore, agreement has been reached on the review clause that will allow us to check, in a few years, whether all models satisfy our goals of achieving a fully competitive and legalised market. moreover, we have substantially increased the provisions on consumer protection with regard to, among other things, billing information and improved conditions for switching suppliers. finally, another big success has been the introduction of a new provision in the third-country clause, whereby the certification of a transmission system operator (tso) from a third country could now also be denied if the security of supply of the union as a whole, or that of an individual member state, other than the one where the certification is requested, is threatened. concerning the electricity regulation, i would like to make clear that this regulation plays a crucial role, since it gives member states the tools needed to significantly increase interconnection capacity within the union by the development and establishment of binding network codes to be applied by all transmission system operators to exchanges, thus removing one of the main physical barriers to the completion of the internal electricity market. the agreed text also enhances the role of the agency for the cooperation of european regulators in this process, in line with the first reading in the european parliament. i must admit that parliament hoped for a much more ambitious agency. however, we understand that this is only the first step in a long process of integration of regulatory frameworks. we have managed to include a new provision whereby the agency will be able to propose the basic criteria to be included in the granting of exemptions for new interconnections. this is particularly relevant since it is one of the main obstacles investors in new capacity face when dealing with different member states. having to follow several different regulatory procedures can sometimes lead to confusing results and put off investors – take, for example, nabucco. this regulation also establishes, and gives a defined role to, the european network of transmission system operators for electricity (entso), which will be in charge of drafting the network codes to be submitted to the agency, as well as developing coordinated mechanisms for emergency situations such as the european union-wide blackouts we have suffered in the recent past. i would like to finish by thanking all the technical staff, whose work has enabled us to obtain an agreement which, at the very beginning of the negotiations, we at times lost faith in reaching.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, when the market is not working, we have to intervene. we have once again broken a taboo: the free market is not sacred, and even less so in times of crisis, when the pocket of the european consumer suffers more than ever. with this agreement, which aims to put a limit on the abusive prices for calls and sms in 'roaming', the consumer wins, communication between european countries wins and a useful and positive europe wins. the telephone bill of millions of europeans could be reduced or, on the contrary, if the cost of an sms is only 11 cents, you could be typing all day and end up spending the same. the transfer measures are particularly positive, as they achieve a charge per second from thirty seconds onwards. the maximum prices for sms and data could have been somewhat lower, but in the interest of consensus, we have reached this transaction. i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. the committee on civil liberties has asked for the management of the commission and the five community agencies falling within its remit to be approved. the committee is concerned, however, at the low level of implementation of payment appropriations in the area of freedom, security and justice compared with 2006 (60.41% in 2007 and 86.26% in 2006). we are aware, however, that the responsibility lies not so much with the commission as with the member states and that the low implementation is due, in particular, to the approval in may and june 2007 of the funds included in the framework of solidarity and the management of migration flows and to the delays in the implementation of other specific programmes (for example, the programmes on civil justice and information and prevention in the field of drugs). as i said, the committee on civil liberties has recommended that the management of:- the fundamental rights agency,- the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in lisbon,- frontex,- eurojust, and- cepol be approved. i would like to say the following about the last two agencies:- we hope that eurojust will reduce the excessive number of carryovers and that the way in which contracts are concluded will be regulated, as the agency claims;- always taking into account the criticisms made of cepol by our committee, we do not believe that the approval of the management of this agency should be postponed. as far as we know, the director of cepol has been working closely with the committee on budgetary control and is doing what is necessary to correct the management shortcomings identified.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not subject to the same sanctions as the fishermen who are caught illegally. the commission has in fact been denouncing this matter lately. last week the bluefin tuna fishing season began. scientists tell us that we have long since exceeded the acceptable limits of sustainable fishing for this clearly endangered species. these days, the spanish minister for defence is in somalia, leading the operation to protect the tuna industry in the indian ocean from piracy attacks. if european tuna fishermen have to go so far from home to work, it is firstly because the closest stocks are about to collapse and secondly because we have an over-subsidised and clearly over-sized fleet that seeks profitability even at the cost of killing the main element that underpins its activity, fish. the common problem in all these cases - and in many others - is, once again, overfishing, the oversized size of the european fleet and, above all, the lack of control and of capacity to impose sanctions. that is why we are advocating in this report that the non-discriminatory and effective application of the rules should be one of the fundamental pillars of the common fisheries policy. we therefore call for an explicit ban on public aid to those who act illegally, as is the case with armadores vidal. compliance with the rules and a coherent approach are the best way to protect the interests of the fisheries sector in the long term. the policy is bound to fail if fishermen, from seafarers to traders selling fish to consumers, do not comply with the rules. fish stocks are doomed to disappear along with those who depend on them. the commission and the european parliament have on several occasions expressed regret at the low level of compliance and have called, among other things, for the member states to step up checks, to harmonise inspection criteria and penalties, and for the results of inspections to be transparent. we have also asked for the community inspection systems to be strengthened. the proposal for a regulation which forms the basis of this report addresses the necessary reform of the existing control system and makes a number of recommendations which must be added to those already in place following the adoption of the regulation on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing or the regulation on the authorisation of fishing activities. perhaps the most important quality of a control system that applies to 27 member states is that all parties are treated equally and, above all, that all actors in the production chain - fishermen, intermediaries, buyers, people linked to the recreational fishing sector and others - feel that they are not being discriminated against, but also that they have their share of responsibility in this respect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used in a fair and equitable manner. the proposal we are putting forward - and we also support the original commission proposal to a large extent - contains a number of aspects which would make it possible to make considerable progress in this direction. i would simply like to mention, as a point of order, the need for the community fisheries control agency to have a particularly important role to play, given its community nature and its mandate of impartiality. i therefore hope that the amendments which we have tabled at the last minute, in order to finalize the report, will be accepted by the rest of the house, as was the case in the debate we had in committee, and i hope that it will be a useful instrument to save those whom we must save, which are not only the stocks but also the populations that live off them.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all allow me to thank the rapporteur, mr romeva i rueda, who has undertaken some impressive work on this report. what is even more noteworthy is the fact that the rapporteur has undertaken to meet with numerous international and community stakeholders in several capitals. this file was complex and delicate. the commission would like to thank mr romeva i rueda for his work on this report. as you know, the current regulation on fisheries control dates back to 1993. it has since been amended a dozen times, in particular in 1998, to include the control of fishing effort, and in 2002 on the occasion of the last reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). however, the resulting system has serious shortcomings that prevent it from being as effective as it should be. as both the european commission and the european court of auditors have highlighted, the current system is inefficient, expensive, complex, and it does not produce the desired results. this in turn undermines conservation and effort management initiatives. control failures thus contribute to the negative performance of the common fisheries policy. the main aim of the control reform is to ensure the respect of the cfp rules by building a new standard framework which will enable the member states and the commission to fully assume their responsibilities. it establishes a global and integrated approach to control, focusing on all aspects of the cfp and covering the whole chain of catch, landing, transport, processing and marketing – ‘from catch to consumer’. in order to achieve this, the reform is built on three axes. axis 1: the creation of a culture of compliance and responsibility of the sector. the aim of this objective is to influence the behaviour of all stakeholders involved in the wide range of fishing activities in order to achieve compliance through not only monitoring and control activities, but as a result of an overall culture of compliance where all parts of the industry understand and accept that playing by the rules is in their own long-term interest. axis 2: instituting a global and integrated approach to control and inspection. the proposal ensures uniformity in the implementation of the control policy, while respecting the diversity and the specific characteristics of different fleets. it establishes a level playing field for the industry by covering all aspects from capture through to the market. axis 3: the effective application of cfp rules. the reform also aims to clearly define the roles and responsibilities of member states, the commission and the community fisheries control agency. under the cfp, control and enforcement are the exclusive competence of the member states. the role of the commission is to control and verify that the member states are implementing the cfp rules correctly and effectively. the current proposal does not try to change this allocation of responsibilities. however, it is important to rationalise procedures, and to ensure that the commission has the means to actually see to it that the member states equally implement cfp rules. i would also like to emphasise the fact that the proposal will reduce administrative burdens and make the system less bureaucratic. the commission’s impact assessment found that if the reform is adopted, the total administrative costs for operators could be reduced by 51% – from eur 78 to eur 38 million – largely through the use of more modern technologies, such as the extension of the use of ers, vms and ais. existing paper-based tools will be replaced at all stages of the fisheries chain – i.e. logbook, landing declarations and sales notes – except for vessels below 10 metres overall length. for fishermen, the electronic system will make it easier to record and communicate data. once the system has been introduced, a number of reporting requirements will be removed. the system will be quicker, more accurate, less expensive and will allow for the automated processing of data. it will also facilitate cross-checking of data and information, and the identification of risks. the result will be a more rational and risk-based approach to control actions at sea and on land, the latter being inherently more cost-effective. the proposal will also remove the current obligation on member states to transmit lists of fishing licenses or fishing permits to the commission, which will instead be made accessible by electronic means to the national control services, to those of other member states, and to the commission. now turning to the report, i would like to comment on the amendments proposed. the commission welcomes the fact that the european parliament supports the legislation in principle and considers that a new control regulation is necessary. whilst the commission can go along with certain amendments that are in line with the discussion within the council working group, it considers it fundamental to retain certain key elements of the proposal. the commission can agree with an important number of amendments, in particular amendments 3, 6, 9, 10, 11, 13 to 18, 26 to 28, 30, 31, 36, 44, 45, 51 to 55, 57, 58, 62, 63, 66 to 69, 82, 84, 85, and 92 to 98. the commission cannot, however, accept the following amendments, which could be summarised as follows: concerning the monitoring of fishing activities: amendment 23 modifies the margin of tolerance to be applied to logbook catch entries to 10%, instead of 5% as in the proposal. this will seriously affect the accuracy of the logbook data that is essential when using such data for cross-checks. since such cross-checks will be used to identify data inconsistencies as indicators of illegal behaviour on which member states should concentrate their scarce control resources, this amendment would also negatively affect the operation of the computerised validation system foreseen in article 102(1) of the proposal which is considered to be the backbone of the new control system. the most important argument is, however, that fishermen can indeed estimate their catches within an accuracy level of 3%. after all, fish is stored and transported in boxes and they know how much weight of fish a box can hold. regarding amendment 29 on prior notifications, the commission believes that the idea to reserve the granting of exemptions to the council would complicate enormously the procedure and would not allow for timely reactions to developments on the ground. the commission also finds that the reallocation of unused quotas is a management matter that should be dealt with in the context of the cfp reform. thus, amendment 41 on corrective measures cannot be accepted. on transhipments of stocks subject to multiannual plans, amendment 42 deletes the entire article 33. this is not acceptable because, as you know, transhipments have been used in the past to conceal illegal catches. for that reason it is essential to maintain article 33 and that quantities to be transhipped are weighed by an independent body before they are taken on the transport vessel. amendment 47 deletes the entire section on real-time closure of fisheries. by accepting this, the commission would lose a very important instrument for the protection of stocks. real time closures are directly linked to control issues. therefore, this amendment cannot be accepted. amendment 102 is not acceptable since it deletes the article on the ability for the commission to close fisheries if so required by the commission. a similar provision exists already in the current control regulation, and it is a necessary tool to ensure that, if a member state fails to close a fishery, then the commission is entitled to close that fishery in order to ensure the respect of quotas – and this we did last year for the bluefin tuna and the year before for cod in the baltic sea. similarly, the commission cannot accept amendment 103, which deletes the provisions on corrective measures. this would weaken the role of the commission as the guardian of eu law ensuring that all member states are able to take full advantage of their fishing opportunities. moreover, this provision already exists in current legislation. as regards new technologies: concerning the vessel monitoring system (vms) and the vessel detection system (vds), amendment 19 foresees the entry into force of these electronic devices for vessels between 10 and 15 metres as of 1 july 2013, instead of 1 january 2012, as laid down in the proposal. amendment 20 foresees that the installation of vms devices and electronic logbooks is eligible for funding, with 80% cofinancing from the eu budget. regarding amendment 19, the proposal already provides for a transition period, as this obligation would only apply as of 1 january 2012, whereas the entry into force of the regulation is foreseen for 1 january 2010. since the new control system intends to make the best possible use of modern technologies, in order to develop an efficient automated and systematic system of cross-checking, it is important that these provisions apply on the date foreseen in the proposal, so as not to further delay the implementation of the new approach to control. regarding the concerns on the cost of introducing these new technologies, the cofinancing by the commission is already available under council regulation (ec) no 861/2006, which establishes cofinancing rates, and in the framework of this regulation the commission will consider increasing such rates. it would, however, go against the budgetary rules to lay down in another legislative act the rates for cofinancing. concerning recreational fisheries: on this controversial subject, i would like to indicate that, in contrast to what has been widely reported, the draft regulation does not aim to place a disproportionate burden upon individual anglers or on the leisure fishing industry. what is proposed is to subject certain recreational fisheries on certain specific stocks, namely those subject to a recovery plan, to certain basic conditions on permits and catch reporting. these requirements will also help to obtain information allowing the public authorities to evaluate the biological impact of such activities and, where necessary, to prepare the measures needed. concerning the ep report, the commission welcomes the fact that a definition of ‘recreational fisheries’ is provided for in amendment 11, and that parliament foresees that, where a recreational fishery is found to have a significant impact, catches should count against the quotas. it also welcomes the fact that the ep agrees that the marketing of catches from recreational fishing shall be prohibited except for philanthropic purposes. however, i would like to stress that it is important to maintain an obligation for member states to evaluate the impact of recreational fisheries as set out in amendment 93, and not just the possibility to do so as contemplated in amendments 48, 49 and 50. the commission, of course, wants to ensure that the final regulation adopted by the council achieves a fair balance between, on the one hand, obtaining accurate information on the impact of recreational fisheries on recovery stocks – following a case by case analysis – and, on the other, ensuring that recreational fishers, whose catches clearly have a negligible biological impact, are not burdened with disproportionate requirements. concerning sanctions and enforcement: amendment 64 inserts a new article 84(2a) indicating that as long as a holder of a fishing authorisation has been given ‘penalty points’ the holder should be excluded from receiving eu subsidies or national public aid during that time. the commission cannot accept this amendment. in the same vein, amendment 61 cannot be accepted. in fact article 45, point 7, of regulation (ec) no 1005/2008 establishing a community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing already provides the possibility to ban offenders temporarily or permanently from access to public assistance or subsidies. to introduce such a rule additionally in the context of the penalty point system would be disproportionate. amendment 107 deletes the minimum and maximum levels of sanctions proposed by the commission. this is not acceptable, since comparable sanctions in all member states is an important element to achieve the same degree of deterrence in all community waters and thus create a level playing field through the establishment of a common framework at the community level. the provision does not affect the discretion of member states to determine which infringements are to be characterised as serious. concerning the powers of the commission: amendment 71 imposes the presence of an official of a member state during inspections carried out by the commission, and in the same vein, amendment 108 limits the possibility for the commission to carry out inquiries and inspections only in cases where a member state has been previously informed. the capacity of the commission to undertake autonomous inspections would be seriously affected when officials of the member state concerned have to be always present during inspections. by not providing an official, the member state concerned could even prevent an autonomous inspection from taking place. amendments 104, 108, 109 and 110 are also problematic since they restrict the competencies of community inspectors, restrict their ability to perform autonomous verifications and autonomous inspections. without such competencies for community inspectors, the commission cannot ensure the same quality of application of cfp rules in all member states. amendment 72 takes away the basis according to which community financial assistance can be suspended or cancelled when there is evidence that provisions of the regulation have not been complied with. the commission cannot accept this amendment. with this amendment the simple conclusion by the commission that the member state concerned has not taken adequate measures would be sufficient to take measures against that member state. on the other hand, amendments 111 and 112 limit the competence of the commission to suspend community financial assistance. this would seriously undermine the capacity of the commission to apply this measure. furthermore, the amendment does not clarify who, instead of the commission, is supposed to take such a decision. concerning the closure of fisheries: amendment 73 limits considerably the cases in which the commission will be able to close a fishery for failure to comply with the objectives of the common fisheries policy. ‘evidence’ of non-respect will be much harder to prove than ‘reason to believe’. in order to ensure that the rules of the cfp are equally applied in all member states and to avoid a particular threat to sensitive stocks, it is important that the commission has the possibility to close a fishery when the relevant member state fails to do so itself. in the same vein, the commission cannot accept amendment 113, which proposes to delete this article. amendments 74 to 78 reduce substantially the pressure on member states to respect national quotas. acceptance of these amendments would simply mean maintaining the status quo. the amendments reduce substantially the possibility for the commission to take measures to ensure that member state fishers do not fish on a regulated stock for which the member state has no quota or has a small quota. this would be particularly detrimental in cases where such fishing effectively prevents other member states from fishing their quotas. amendments 79 and 80 delete articles 98 and 100, which give the commission the possibility of deducting quotas and to refuse quota exchange for failure to comply with the objectives of the cfp. the commission wishes to maintain this provision, which is an important instrument, to ensure the respect of the cfp rules by member states. it responds to the recommendation of the court of auditors to reinforce the capacity of the commission to put pressure on member states. it will also help demonstrate to national fishing industries that the respect of the cfp rules by their national administrations is also in their interest, and they can be expected to exert a positive pressure on their national administrations to that effect. amendment 114 proposes the deletion of article 101 on emergency measures. the commission cannot accept this amendment since this provision is an important instrument to ensure the respect of the cfp rules by the member states. i would once again like to thank mr romeva i rueda for the report and the committee for the attention it has given to this very important issue. this report is a significant contribution to a truly efficient control system. i would like to apologise for taking up so much time.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the treaty of rome. it is unacceptable that the commission should continue to proclaim that its entire fisheries policy will be based on dialogue with the parties concerned and that it should be fair when drafting the regulation which has the most serious immediate consequences for the fleet when that dialogue and that prior consultation are stolen from the sector. this is a bad start in trying to establish the culture of compliance that the commission is so eager to promote. the timing is also very questionable. it is true that the control policy is one of the most glaring flaws of the common fisheries policy, but so is the fact that the commission has maintained it since 1993 and has decided to change it just when it is presenting the preliminary work for a reform of the cfp which announces a thorough review of the conservation and management system. since control is an integral part of any management system, it would have been much more reasonable to coordinate both reforms without running the risk that the 2012 reform would render this proposal obsolete, some of whose measures will not enter into force until at least that year. these two major errors undermine what could have been great successes, such as attempts to harmonize infringements and sanctions and the objective of holding member states accountable at once for the obvious lack of political will to implement control measures. i can only thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his work and i am sorry that we have so little time to work on such an important matter.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for this interesting debate. clearly we are equally strongly aware of the need for a meaningful reform of our control systems. let me try to touch on a number of points that have been raised, first of all with regard to the question concerning recreational fisheries. as i said, this is a very contentious topic, probably the most contentious of all the control provisions contained in the proposal. however, it has given rise to a number of misconceptions as to what the real objective and purpose of the provisions is. i said that we are prepared to accept the definition that is proposed in one of the amendments. i will be setting out clearly our position on the definition and on the proposed regulation of recreational fisheries in the coming days, including by writing directly to the anglers’ representatives in order to spell out the objectives, the parameters and the details concerning recreational fisheries. then, i hope, i will be receiving feedback from them and, if necessary, we will look into the provisions in order to make them more finely-tuned to the only objective that we need to target. we have a significant problem with recovery stock. there are certain recreational activities which impose big pressures on such recovery stock and we need to address this point. this is only fair for the professional fishermen that we address this. otherwise we can never hope to turn the situation around if there is pressure from a significant fishing effort, even though it is carried out in a recreational manner and no earnings are derived from it. the stock cannot hope to recover if there is significant effort, as scientific reports have indicated to us. (interjection from the floor: ‘no science for that at all!’) concerning the total lack of consultation of the sector, i think that we have consulted the industry. i myself took part in such a conference in scotland some time ago. all racs have submitted their opinions and, furthermore, as in any other legislation, we organised a public internet consultation. the sector was specifically consulted in the framework of the advisory committee for fisheries and aquaculture in the course of 2008. concerning the point made on small-scale vessels, the commission believes that the small-scale fleet can have a significant impact on resources. this is the reason why there is no general exemption for this fleet in the proposal. however, the proposal provides specific exemptions for certain categories of vessels, in general those under 10 metres, and in particular on the vms, on log book, on prior notification and landing declarations. in this regard, the proposal respects the principle of proportionality. financial aspects are also taken into account at the level of eu cofinancing of up to 95% of the costs for those electronic devices, to help the stakeholders to use the new technologies. exemptions will be examined further within the final presidency compromise. i would also like to say, with regard to the points made by mr guerreiro, that many of the points that he mentioned already exist in the existing control provisions. therefore, were we to take up the amendments that he suggests, we would actually be moving backwards with regard to control and enforcement, rather than strengthening the provisions that need to be strengthened. we are seeking a level playing field in the sanctions provisions as contained in the proposed regulation. obviously we are prepared to look into them further in order to see whether there needs to be further fine-tuning, but the main objective of the provisions on sanctions in the proposed regulation is to ensure that there are no significant discrepancies, such as exist today, between sanctions given by certain member states, or by the judicial authorities of certain member states, and sanctions that are given by the judicial authorities of other member states. finally, i would like to thank mr farage for his confidence shown in my staying here for a second term!
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to dedicate the last two minutes of my speech to thanking you. firstly, to the commission, not only because of the work and the opportunity: i think that it is indeed always difficult to raise a question of this nature and this dimension, but i think it was necessary, at least, to open the debate. it has done so with courage and, of course, there will always be those who think that the time is never right, but i think that at least the debate has served and will serve to make clear some of the difficulties we have in regulating this sector more and better. secondly, i would like to thank the other speakers, the shadow speakers, because, as the debate has shown, we have very different points of view and we have made a great effort to reach agreements. i want to acknowledge the effort that you have all put into this work. the endpoint we have reached may not be the one that each and every one of us would like. for example, as regards the margin of tolerance, i agree with the commission, that is to say, i think that 5% was already enough. 10% is part of this transaction, because there were other colleagues who went much further. the same applies to the possibility of extending or, in any case, extending the period for the implementation of the electronic system. i also want to remind you, because sometimes it is forgotten, that this will not be an additional cost. in any case, there are special resources for this from the commission. and as regards the last aspect, perhaps the most controversial but not necessarily the central issue of this resolution, the issue of recreational fishing, i want to emphasize one aspect, which is that of non-discrimination. if we do not understand that we all have to take our share of responsibility, it is very difficult to achieve the desired result. in the negotiation we got a transaction which was, of course, difficult, but which was, for me, quite acceptable. however, the question of whether we should voluntarily or compulsorily carry out the study on the impact that recreational fishing could have was left out of the agreement. i think that at least, given that some exceptions are being proposed for the recreational sector, it would be good if there was a possibility of a commitment - rather than an obligation, a commitment - on the part of the states to provide the necessary information, because, i insist, the responsibility is either shared or in the end everyone, including the recreational sector, will be affected by the lack of control.
the commission's proposal is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for pointing out some of the major concerns raised by the commission's proposal. one is the trend which is beginning to emerge to regulate by zone matters which are pillars of a common policy. while this approximation may in principle be understandable in the case of technical measures, it will be necessary to be very careful that subsequent regional regulations are limited to purely implementing aspects and regulating technical details. i say this because the drawing up of framework regulations containing minimum measures followed by legislation in different areas is, together with an increasing use of comitology, one of the ways in which the commission is prepared to exhaust the prospect of co-decision in fisheries matters, as dg mare itself admits without hesitation in the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy. and it must be borne in mind that we are not talking about any policy, but a common policy, which requires that we be very clear about what can be a more or less disguised devolution of powers to the member states or an excessive territorialization of what should be common rules designed not to distort competition and to avoid discrimination between fleets. so while it may be reasonable for very local species to have their minimum size regulated in regional regulations, those cases should be the least and the minimum sizes in general, such as mesh sizes or the criteria according to which they can be landed and sold, should be common and approved by the council and parliament. this is also the case with some of the main amendments introduced by the committee on fisheries, which seek to reduce the application of the comitology procedure to the most purely detailed aspects and insist that the council should be left with the rules for fixing the barriers, the dimensions of the nets or the measures for the elimination or reduction of discards, since we believe that all community operators should be bound by minimum rules of the game which are the same for all. it should be remembered that the only truly community policy in this so-called common policy is access to markets, whereas the conservation and management policy - let alone the control policy - leaves a margin of manoeuvre which member states often use without hesitation to benefit their fleets to the detriment of others. we have just seen the commission's strong commitment to the community and to the homogenization of controls, and it is difficult to understand how, through the rest of the measures, the same game is being dismantled, fragmented and different rules are being created for the same game depending on where it is played. this puts at risk the entire credibility of the common fisheries policy and its own future as such, something that should not be assumed before the 2012 reform. finally, as regards the controversial single-net rule, i think that parliament has offered the commission a good alternative approach indicating in which cases it may not be feasible and it should therefore be permissible to carry on board more than one fishing net. i hope that the commission can therefore be sensitive to what have proved to be major concerns of the fisheries sector and of our own committee on fisheries.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me express my thanks to the rapporteur, mr visser, ms fraga and the fisheries committee for the draft report on the commission’s proposal for technical measures for the atlantic and the north sea. this is a very technical file and, as you are aware, technical conservation measures in the atlantic and the north sea originate to a large extent from existing rules. in community legislation the measures are spread out in different regulations: the 1998 general technical measures regulation for the atlantic and the north sea; the additional technical measures regulation for the recovery of cod and hake; and the annual tac and quota regulation, which also contains a number of technical conservation measures. apart from this legal complexity, the present rules are in some cases very complicated and difficult to implement and control. the commission adopted the proposal for a new regulation on technical conservation measures for the atlantic on 4 june of last year. the proposal was drafted after extensive consultation of stakeholders and member states during 2006 and 2007. it groups together all the relevant rules into one single legislative act, which will therefore improve legal consistency. furthermore, the proposal seeks to simplify, clarify and streamline the various rules. special attention has been paid to simplifying onboard inspections and reducing the costs for fishermen. there are also some additional rules to reduce discards, such as the establishment of a legal framework for real-time closures, already applied in the north sea. a new decision-making structure is being proposed, using a council-level decision for the general and essential provisions and comitology for the more detailed and technical region-specific provisions, thereby avoiding micro-management at a political level. this new approach is not supported in your report, where amendments 1, 6, 7, 25 and 26 call for council regulations both for general and for detailed technical rules. the commission, particularly in the framework of the cfp reform, does not want to continue with micro-management measures at a political level. however, taking into account the point made in the report regarding comitology, the commission is ready to study any procedure which, while maintaining comitology for regional technical rules, will enable the raising at council level of any matter which appears to be essential or political. the commission can partially accept amendments 2 and 3, relating to additional illustrations of fishing gears, if needed, and to certain specific market provisions, particularly on the minimum size of species, with the aim of harmonising measures. in line with discard policy, the commission is proposing new rules about real-time closures and moving-on provisions for specific fisheries in order to reduce discarding practices. both measures are considered to be efficient tools and, in order to reduce discards, are important in order to allow for a switch from rules dealing with landings to provisions on real catches. for that reason, the commission cannot accept amendments 4, 5, 21, 23 and 24. however, amendment 20, only in so far as it calls for ‘quantity’ to be replaced by ‘weight’ to define the level of by-catch, is acceptable. in addition we can positively consider the second part of the amendment regarding the derogations on distance. the parameters of such a derogation, however, would have to be studied in some detail and will be laid out in the implementing regulation. the commission, mainly for inspection purposes, intends to implement the one-net-rule provision, which should be applicable to most european fisheries. the commission is ready to examine possible derogations for specific fisheries, where these are justified and well argued, and where they take into account the criteria set out in amendment 11. such derogations should be part of the regional regulations. the other aspects of the commission’s proposal are very technical, with many details related to the construction and use of fishing gears in the atlantic. i note that the rapporteur and the fisheries committee also addressed the very technical elements of the proposal and suggested a number of amendments, with the intention of improving the proposal. however, i must express my reservations regarding amendments 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 22. the technical rules proposed on the basis of scientific advice have been simplified in comparison with current legislation, and will facilitate inspection on board and reduce costs for fishermen. the commission cannot accept amendments 18 and 19, since the provisions proposed are already in force, subsequent to a political agreement in council on a proposal from the commission based on scientific advice, and no new information is available to justify any modification. i can support the idea set out in amendment 27, and therefore, when introducing new technical measures, the commission agrees to delay their entry into force so as to allow fishermen enough time to make the necessary adaptations. let me again express my gratitude to the rapporteur and the committee for their work on this proposal.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs davis for her kind words just expressed. i would like to say that with regard to this regulation, as i said in my opening statement, the issue of comitology is aimed at simplifying the currently over-complex system of decision-making on very technical issues. however, i agree that we have to have a procedure in place that will nevertheless allow an issue to be raised at council level should any matter appear to be of a significant or political nature. on the question of discards, we have already started to take measures to reduce discards, in particular within the parameters of the north sea and of the cod recovery plan. we will continue and we will be coming up with further proposals, for example on the banning of high grading, in a general manner which we will be proposing for 2010, and we hope that we will be dealing with this issue holistically in the discussions on the reform of the common fisheries policy with a view, i hope, to the final result being the total elimination of discards. i would like myself to thank the members of parliament, in particular the members of the fisheries committee, for the constant support they have given the commission in dealing with the sometimes intricate and politically sensitive issue of fisheries.
the rapporteur's second question - mr president, i am grateful to the commissioner for one thing in particular, namely that he is prepared to reconsider the commission's position on the subject of comitology. i welcome this, because this parliament has clearly shown, during this debate in the committee on fisheries, that it does not agree with this intention of the commission, which is also reflected in the draft green paper on the reform of the cfp, to turn with a certain interest and with a certain excess to the subject of comitology. the commission also justifies this in the green paper by saying that the procedures may now be delayed in view of the codecision procedure which this parliament will apply for the first time in the fisheries sector once the treaty of lisbon enters into force. i think that is not true; i think that legislative procedures are often delayed not because of parliament or the codecision procedure, but because the commission sometimes also delays in presenting its proposals. so i think this is a subject that needs to be discussed and i think it is interesting. i understand what the commissioner is saying, that in a regulation as technical as this there are technical aspects which must be decided by comitology and that not everything can be left to the council. but, commissioner, i think there is a difference between your interpretation of what you consider 'technical' and what we in the 'technical' parliament consider. we're more restrictive than you are. and finally, because i do not want to dwell on a subject on which i have not been a rapporteur, there is the rule of the single network. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all understand that the subject of control is much simpler with the single net rule, but this subject also raises serious problems in certain fisheries, as you are well aware. so we don't always shield ourselves from the issue of control to be very restrictive at times, when sometimes it is not necessary to make certain decisions.
madam president, i am referring exclusively to the report by mrs weber on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directives 77/91/eec, 78/855/eec, 82/891/eec and directive 2005/56/ec as regards information and documentation requirements in the case of mergers and divisions. we are in the process of simplifying administrative procedures. our position is in favour of the commission's proposals which introduce certain amendments, but we include some amendments which have been tabled by practically all the political groups and which, of course, the person who spoke in them has supported, because they allow for simplification. we are, of course, talking about a very important change, namely the removal of documentation, the introduction of web pages and references on web pages, the removal of technical and other requirements which were required until now, which could mean a very significant reduction in costs and time, while still offering guarantees both to creditors and, for example, to the employees of the company and other people who have access to it. i think that the commission's proposals are quite positive and that the proposals for amendments to the text that we are presenting are in the same direction, guaranteeing independence, especially in the case of the use of websites, and the need for any information on those websites to be linked to other websites that are used, so that that use is not complicated and there is plenty of additional information. in short, madam president, i believe that parliament will be able to adopt this proposal for a directive by a large majority and that the resulting text will be better than the one the commission has presented to us.
madam president, the package of measures on credit rating agencies, insurance and mergers and divisions is a first step towards increasing the confidence and efficiency of financial markets. it is in line with the principles advocated by the european union and the g20 of strengthening transparency, accountability and integrity in financial markets and places the european union in a position of international leadership. that is why i support them, although we must go further. the failures of the rating agencies are one of the causes of the financial crisis: self-regulation is not enough. the regulation is a pioneer in ensuring the registration, accountability and supervision of agencies, in addressing conflicts of interest, in improving working methods and the quality of different types of qualifications including those from third countries. a future review of payment systems and the creation of a european public agency is pending. the solvency directive codifies the entire existing acquis on private insurance and incorporates technical advances in better risk management that will boost innovation, improve the use of resources, increase the protection of policyholders and financial stability in the sector. the new framework for the supervision of groups follows a prudent and evolutionary line. the creation of colleges of supervisors is a step forward in the process of integrating and strengthening european financial supervision which must continue to move forward and can be a guideline that can become a global standard. parliament will monitor and promote its development. finally, the amendment of several directives on information and documentation requirements in the case of mergers and divisions is a further step in the simplification of legislation and shows that the objective of reducing the burden on companies by 25% can be perfectly reconciled with the strengthening of the rights of the public and shareholders, provided that information and communication technologies are used.
in writing. - the spanish socialist delegation has defended the model of asset disaggregation of vertically integrated companies in both gas and electricity, based on the conviction that separating supply/generation companies from transport companies is tantamount to providing european consumers with a real choice and stimulating the necessary investments in this sector, making energy reach the entire eu without interruption. however, i voted in favour of the internal market in gas and electricity because: (1) consumer interests have been placed at the heart of the review of the legislative package; (2) we have included the concept of energy poverty and asked member states to include measures to tackle energy poverty in national energy action plans and not only ensure the necessary supply of energy to the most vulnerable customers, but also ensure that they are not disconnected during critical periods; and (3) given that asset disaggregation will be a de facto reality within a few years due to the anti-trust procedures of the dg competition services, we have put the emphasis on the institutional architecture, strengthening the competences of the new european agency and the independence of the national regulatory bodies.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i read in the applicable financial regulation that the secretary-general and high representative for the common foreign and security policy, assisted by the deputy secretary-general, will be fully responsible for the management of the appropriations entered in section ii - council of the budget and will take all necessary measures to ensure that they are properly managed. where is mr. javier solana? where is the deputy secretary-general, who is not in this debate, even though the only piece of information we have, which is the internal auditor's report, is saying that in the council, for which javier solana is responsible under the financial regulation, not the czech or french presidency, but javier solana and his deputy, there is a b-account, there are accounts outside the budget? what's this? what's this? the auditor says to delete that item. we want to know what it has been used for and why. we want to know why, of the 650 million which mr solana administers under his responsibility, 13 million went from interpretation to travel expenses in 2006, but in 2007 the allocation for travel expenses was not increased. it's the same thing over and over again, and we don't know what all this travel means, where all this money is going. we are angry because there is only one exception to the democratic control exercised by this parliament over all the accounts financed by taxpayers in the european union: the accounts kept by the council. those are not audited. we have not been able to get the members of this parliament to meet with the council to discuss the accounts even once. we've been denied papers. we've been denied documents. they understand that we have no competence to control the council; that could have been when the council had merely administrative burdens, but now the common foreign and security policy represents operational expenditure and we do not understand why it has to be outside democratic control. i therefore want to say that the attitude of the secretary-general, mr javier solana, is unacceptable and that this parliament will therefore propose not to approve the council's accounts this time, as it did ten years ago when mr elles said he did not approve the commission's accounts and caused the santer commission to resign.
, president of the council. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the various contributions you have made during this debate. i want to assure you that the council is firmly committed to strengthening and completing the single market. the bureau therefore considers that it was for this very reason that the amendment of existing community legislation was necessary. the presidency also fully shares the objective of increasing the competitiveness of the road transport sector in the european union by streamlining and simplifying the existing legal framework, thereby helping to limit market distortions. but a full opening of domestic transport markets would expose our transport companies to unfair competition and would damage the functioning of the market, as there are still significant fiscal and social disparities between member states. this should be avoided, in particular in times of economic crisis, when the economy as a whole requires a careful and prudent assessment of the best means of stimulation and recovery. it is clear that the commission will reassess the market situation by 2013 at the latest with a view to pursuing further liberalisation. this compromise text is a fair and balanced way of combining different interests. our common goal is to make road transport more efficient and sustainable. this legislation will make a significant contribution to reducing distortions of competition and to improving road transport operators' compliance with social legislation and road safety rules. it will also allow for a significant reduction in the administrative burden for both road transport operators and supervisory authorities. the sector should also provide a legal and administrative framework to enable the additional benefits of the common market. i am confident that this important body of legislation will promote and facilitate road transport in order to help stimulate economic recovery. thank you again for the excellent cooperation that has enabled us to find the best compromise to achieve these goals.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that what parliament is about to adopt is a good compromise, which brings together the council's demands, the demands of the majority of members and the proposals of the european commission. it is obvious that when a compromise is reached, everyone must take a step back so that the other can do the same and so i believe that the analysis made by el khadraoui is a wise analysis: we did the best we could! i also said during the previous part of the debate that the commission intends to assess the situation with regard to cabotage, whether it will be possible, whether an agreement will be reached, it depends on what happens, whether it will be possible to open up further and therefore go in the direction requested by many members, but of course we have to assess what the situation will be. i think - i repeat - that this is a good compromise and i also turn to mr sterckx who has the kindness and the goodness to make criticisms, but also to listen to the reply, unlike many members who have made criticisms and then unfortunately cannot hear what the commission's comments are in reply to what they have said. i would like to reassure mr sterckx, who is rightly concerned about the existence of certain pre-existing agreements concerning his country of origin and the other benelux countries. but i believe that the legislation, as it is approved, will not - i have said this before - will not have any negative impact on existing agreements. they will continue to apply because the new legislation extends the situation, but it does not affect, so it does not affect existing bilateral or trilateral agreements. i think i can reassure mr sterckx that in my interpretation, which i believe is correct and effective, there will be no negative repercussions for the agreements which concern - i repeat - the benelux countries in particular. i also wanted to reassure mr blokland and mr wortmann-kool about the concerns they have expressed: we are not going to stop here, we are assessing - i repeat - the development of the situation, we will make a report in 2013 to assess the state of the art, how things will develop, and if possible, if we consider it necessary, we will propose to the parliament and the council again a possible widening of the situation and further liberalisation of the cabotage system. but we know that in many countries of the union there is a different view, and in order to have the council's positive opinion, steps had to be taken back on other issues. but i repeat, i think it is very positive that we have reached an agreement in a relatively short time which can be - i assure mr jarzembowski - always improved. i think that we are doing good here and i do not think that it is necessary to leave the european union when we are talking about these issues, as mr nattrass proposes, because i believe that good rules are useful for the european union. the financial times, a leading british newspaper, also wrote that perhaps britain will reconsider the need for stronger rules. certainly, during the crisis europe has withstood an economic and financial crisis better than other countries, precisely because it has based its economic system on certain rules. i believe, perhaps because i was born in rome, that the history of roman law and napoleonic law has shown the importance of having rules that guarantee the development of society. i don't know if mr. nattrass was born here or beyond hadrian's wall, but from his speech i believe he was born beyond hadrian's wall, so his ancestors didn't have the chance to know roman law. i would like to thank the house once again for the contribution made by all the men and women in the commission services and in the directorate-general which i have the honour to lead, because without their valuable contribution it would not have been possible to reach a compromise which i consider to be beneficial for all the citizens of the european union.
mr sterckx, would you like to intervene on a point of order?
thank you, man. i understand that it was not a question of order, but a question of courtesy.
i am grateful to mr grosch for an intervention which has already received the support shown by the applause of the members.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the following is the joint debate on the report by michel teychenné, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the rights of passengers when travelling by sea and inland waterway and amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws (com (2008) 0816 - c6-0476/2008 - 2008/0246 (cod)) (a6-0209/2009), and the report by gabriele albertini, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the rights of passengers when travelling by bus and coach, amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws (com (2008) 0176 - c6-0694/2008 - 2008/0246 (cod)) (com (2008) 0236/2009).
vice-president of the commission. − i doubt that we will have time to set up a particular service at this late stage and before the elections. however, we already have the service that offers a possibility to make phone calls or requests and try to get as much information as possible. but what we will do is start preparing a citizens’ summary of the lisbon treaty, for example. this is something that we will do in cooperation with the other institutions. of course we will try to do that as quickly as possible, not as part of the campaign. we will make sure that this is made available in all official languages and in all member states. but i also think we have a chance to sort out questions on this, because we already know the issues. we are also used to answering questions via europe direct, for example, and through our representations, so we will try to help as much as we can. we also have question-and-answer material that we have put together. so i think that this can be of help both to the candidates and other stakeholders.
the agenda now includes the debate on the report by brian crowley, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2006/116/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the term of protection of copyright and certain related rights (com (2008) 0464, c6-0281/2008 - 2008/0157 (cod)) (a6-0070/2009).
mr president, unlike the two speakers who have just preceded me, i agree with most of the speakers. this is a good directive, an excellent directive, aimed at protecting interpreters. when people talk about finding a smarter business model, what they're really talking about is ending intellectual property. because you can only do business if there's a right in place. we already have a right established at the national level. the commission, under the leadership of mr mccreevy, has taken a courageous, a positive initiative, and i think the house should approve the commitment we have achieved in the legal affairs committee thanks to the work of the rapporteur, mr crowley, and the various shadow rapporteurs such as mrs gill and mr toubon. i think it is a great directive, a directive which will encourage the creation of intellectual property. and in addition, that directive includes a few recommendations with regard to the continuation of work. i believe that the approval of this report by this house - and i hope that the council will be in line with the commission and parliament - will help the commission to continue along this path in the next legislature, to make proposals to parliament and to make progress in the area of intellectual property protection, which is essential for the development of our european union as a great institution based on a common culture.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to think that i have learned a lot from my time here as european commissioner. some people might contend that i have not, but i think i have. but one thing that i have learned is that anything touching on the area of intellectual property is fraught with all types of pitfalls. there have been a number of issues raised in this whole area of intellectual property in parliament and the council of ministers, both in my time as commissioner and in my time previously as an irish government minister, and some of these issues have been around for 20/30 years. so i have learned that any aspect of this topic gets a tremendous amount of coverage, generates a lot of debate and polarises a lot of members of parliament, member states and different stakeholders. so i have learned that it is exceptionally difficult to address anything in this area and try to reach an acceptable solution. during my time here as commissioner there have been many instances where we have failed to reach any agreement in certain areas. that being so, i am not the least bit surprised at the depth and sincerity of the arguments put on all sides of this debate, because any issue relating to the intellectual property area always generate this kind of argument, and people who are on the opposing side of the compromise proposal put forward by mr crowley will be on totally the opposite side in other areas of intellectual property. so it is very interesting, in this type of debate, to see people who would take one position in other areas of intellectual property taking a different position here, because this is a very difficult area, and i accept the sincerity of the people who have contributed. there is little point in my going over all the various points raised individually and debating them, because they have been debated ad nauseam in the committee. one thing that mr crowley and rapporteurs from other committees did is to give it a lot of time. parliament has given this an exceptional amount of time and an exceptional degree of effort, and many of the assistants and people in my own dg worked exceptionally hard on this to try and reach what we thought would be an acceptable compromise. but i will touch on some of the areas. let me just eliminate a few points at the outset that do not relate so much to this debate as to what surrounded the earlier debate by which we came up with this proposal. let me assure you that the people who asked me to go forward with a proposal here were the performers – that is where the intensive lobbying came from. if there is disagreement here in the house and in member states, i can equally say there were different views in my dg on this issue when i first came to it as to how we should proceed, and many of the differing viewpoints put forward here were reflected there as well. i think that is natural: if it generates such divided views here and in other member states you can expect the same in the dg. but i was lobbied fairly intensively by ordinary performers. yes, the high-profile performers came and lent their support to the cause, because the ordinary performers thought that it would be better to have some of the big names in this particular area as well, but the ordinary performers – the session musicians, who most people have never heard of – were the biggest lobbyists here. i think it is significant to note that, as mr heaton-harris said, 38 000 session musicians support this particular proposal. so one has to make a judgement on which is the proper way to go forward. i would say that most people know the singers of their favourite four songs or records, but i doubt very much that many of them know who actually wrote them. but the writer of the song is entitled to life plus 70 years. if i named six tunes here tonight out of the most popular tunes created, i doubt that there would be anyone in this chamber who would be able to name who wrote the songs, but each one who knows a particular record would be able to say: that was sung by such and such. the writer gets life plus 70, but the performer gets only 50 years from the date of his performance. from any type of moral perspective that is unfair. some people had one hit song when they were 21 or 22 and were then never heard of again, and they did not make an awful lot of money out of it. in their twilight years when they are approaching 70 and beyond i think it would be only reasonable that they could have a little bit of additional income. you can boil down all the technical arguments and the intellectual arguments and everything else, but on the basis of fair play i think that argument wins out. as mr crowley and others mentioned, this was a genuine attempt to address some of these issues – and some very conflicting issues. we have done our best to get a proposal. mr crowley has put an extraordinary degree of work into this area in trying to reach agreements and compromises and has worked long and hard. i shall just refer to some of the issues raised. ms gill, who is very supportive of the proposal and i thank her very much for her support, mentioned the ‘use it or lose it’ clause, which kicks in after a year, but, in the implementation in member states, member states can allow it to kick in after three months or six months if they so wish. ms bowles – and i do not doubt for one moment her sincerity in this regard – feels she is not in a position to vote for this particular proposal or the compromise proposal put forward by brian crowley. she mentioned the matter of contracts. well, i do not think the matter of contracts should kill the proposal. it is definitely another issue which could be the subject of another initiative if – and only if – this proposal succeeds. ms lichtenberger made a fine address. i would point out to her that eur 2 000 certainly is not peanuts for a session player. the fund, as i said earlier, is endorsed by 38 000 performers and i think they should know. mr medina ortega, from his vast experience as a politician, made a very good point, and i agree with him that we have to propose something here that has a reasonable chance of flying in the council of ministers as well. as he pointed out, we have to be realistic, because, with different views there as well, we have to come forward with a proposal – as mr crowley and others have done – that has a realistic chance of flying in the council of ministers, and he put that point very forcibly and well. mr schmidt and mr musacchio made points about the existing label business models, but we are not endorsing the existing label business models. a 70-year term is open to all new innovative business models. mr holm referred to the possibility of being fined, for example, for singing happy birthday but i think he has his ideas confused here. it is not about the song: it is only about its recording by a performer, so mr holm can sing happy birthday any time he wishes and he will not be in danger of being penalised in any way. this is about the recording by the performer, not by the writer. mr mavrommatis made a number of points which we have noted but i think 70 years is the best proxy for life. in conclusion, i would like to express my appreciation and admiration for the efficient handling of this file by everybody involved in the european parliament. it has resulted in the compromise proposal put forward by brian crowley, and i think it demonstrates our willingness to improve the legal framework for our creative community. i think that in the future it will show that protecting those who create was the right choice, and that increasing efficiency of rights management infrastructures will prove wrong those who claim that better protection will lead to a less thriving online culture. i would like to thank everybody concerned with the debate, particularly the rapporteur brian crowley, not because he is a colleague of mine from ireland and a long-standing friend, but because he has put in an extraordinary amount of work to try and make this compromise acceptable to as many competing interests in parliament as possible and also facilitated a compromise which, as mr medina ortega has said, has a reasonable chance of acceptance in the council of minsters as well.
this point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr gilles savary, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on an action plan on urban mobility (2008/2217 (ini)) (a6-0199/2009).
mr president, first of all i would like to express my deepest gratitude to mr bowis for his efforts to reach consensus and also to convey our best wishes for his speedy recovery. the document we are about to vote on is a great step forward because it puts the member states on the same health project. this is a very complex issue, since health care is a competence in the european union subject to the principle of subsidiarity. however, here we have broken this barrier and, moreover, we have done so in the face of the need to care for patients. it is certainly a great achievement, since, without going into considerations of the legal basis, this directive recognizes the undoubted rights of patients and opens up a new range of possibilities for them to have access to the best treatments. it is a directive made for patients and with patients in mind. it is a very complex directive and one which raises doubts in certain countries such as mine, where we have a universal health care system which serves over a million community citizens. in this respect, it is clear that systems such as ours require that any patient who is displaced cannot be accorded more rights than patients who are nationals of the member state of treatment. that is why we have tabled an amendment which is included in the transaction package, which insists that patients coming from other member states must comply with the rules and regulations of the member state of treatment, especially as regards the choice of doctor and hospital. we therefore believe that patients who are sent from another member state cannot be detrimental to the citizens of the member state of treatment. nor can we recognize an unlimited right to mobility for patients. we also welcome the exclusion of transplants from the scope of the directive. finally, we have taken an important step and that is why the ppe-de group supports this directive, although we believe that it should have gone a little further, particularly as regards the situation of european citizens who reside permanently in other member states and, in particular, those who suffer from chronic diseases.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr bowis and the shadow rapporteurs for their work and to wish mr bowis a speedy recovery. i believe that this directive was intended to develop a broader legal framework than the regulations in force, which already protect the right of citizens to receive health care in other member states, in order to take account of the case law of the court of justice, but it fails to do so because it can create more legal uncertainty, since it would have two non-exclusive routes of mobility: the regulation and the directive; because, moreover, there is no clear definition of basic rights, such as the portfolio of services, benefits or the necessary - i would say, essential - prior authorization; because it has only one legal basis, that of the internal market. and, ladies and gentlemen, that a universal and basic principle such as accessibility to health care can be established exclusively under the rules of the internal market is unacceptable. it can weaken health services in many member states and we are not really giving our citizens an answer to that right which we all have.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
well, thank you very much. that is enough, your honours. let's continue the session. mr titley, your complaint will be forwarded immediately to the president's office with your request that it be answered immediately. as regards the question raised by mr cohn-bendit, any member of the house is, of course, entitled to declare personal interests in relation to a matter under discussion here at any time he wishes, in accordance with our rules of procedure. and so, there is nothing more to say: he who wants to say something, let him say it; and he who does not, let him not. i therefore think that this matter is closed.
i now welcome a delegation from iraq to our parliament. i warmly welcome you to our interparliamentary meetings. (applause) this delegation is chaired by mr khalid al atiyah, first vice-president of the house of representatives of the republic of iraq. i am pleased to note that the progress made in iraq in the field of security and the rule of law, as evidenced by the provincial elections held last january, is encouraging and we hope that the difficulties and difficult years that this country has experienced will soon be overcome. they can be sure that the european union and this parliament will always stand by them to help them consolidate the peace, democracy and stability to which iraq, like every nation on earth, is entitled. i hope that the meetings you hold in our parliament will be fruitful and that your stay with us will further strengthen the ties between our two parliaments. (applause) i would like to thank
yes, mr gahler, i would very much like to do what you ask me to do and, in fact, i have done so in the past. i am not doing so today because the european journalists' association has asked us to detail the votes because, if we do not do so, they cannot properly record the result and they rightly claim that, if they do not know the result of the vote, they cannot assess the political position of the house.
all right, mrs. ţicău, we've noted your comment. - before the vote on amendments nos 109 and 124:
yes, you are right, mr jarzembowski: amendment no 12 is not valid.
can the rapporteur, mr albertini, give us his opinion?
thank you, mrs bowles. naturally, we have to listen to the rapporteur, mr crowley.
i really appreciate the advice, mr. alvaro. of course, it shows that you've never done this.
mrs liotard, we shall now vote against the 158th amendment, which is a rejection, and once we have this settled, i shall reply to your remark. as regards the amendments concerning the legal basis, i make a proposal to you: the presidency must decide whether these amendments, namely amendments nos 159, 119, 116, 125, are admissible or not, but the decision to be taken depends, of course, on the final shape of the directive, which will be modified during the vote. i therefore propose that we take the vote on the admissibility of these amendments at the end, since at the end the presidency will have the elements of judgment to decide whether they are admissible or not. otherwise, we would now be making decisions without sufficient knowledge. so if the speakers agree, we shall vote on these amendments at the end.
we shall then vote on 80 amendments from the committee responsible, and we bear in mind that mr bushill-matthews wishes to table an oral amendment to amendment no 100. - before the vote on amendment no 100:
as far as the vote on this report is concerned, we voted on a number of amendments concerning articles 15, 16 and 17. the amendments we have adopted to these articles are the following: 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110 and 135. in the debate, commissioner vassiliou said that she would be prepared to review the legal basis if she saw grounds for doing so in the light of the amendment of the directive. we must decide, in order to ensure that the content of the final text adopted by parliament corresponds to the legal basis, on the admissibility of amendments nos 159, 119, 116, 125, 126, 1. in view of what the commissioner has said, in view of the fact that the committee responsible voted on these amendments, that is to say, that the committee responsible, namely the chairman of the committee responsible, considered them admissible because he allowed them to be voted on, and in view of everything we have voted on today, i find that in relation to articles 15, 16 and 17, the direction of the directive has been changed. in view of all this, the presidency considers the amendments admissible and we shall vote on them.
mr. mcmillan-scott, so far we have pleased the informants. from this moment on, we're gonna speed things up, and so, everybody happy. - after the vote:
this is certainly a good time to thank mr bowis for his work and of course to wish him a speedy and happy recovery.
i would suggest that, since many of you have been asked for several explanations of vote, when you give the floor to one of you, you should give all the explanations in one speech.
i didn't know you had these qualities of rapsode. you did very well.
mr president, the g20 has left a valuable message: prosperity is indivisible and only a shared and inclusive recovery is sustainable. now, the point is to make it effective. we must continue along the same lines. the g20 reaffirmed common priorities, agreed to provide resources to the international monetary fund, development banks and trade promotion, reformed global financial governance, made ambitious proposals on regulation and supervision, and made progress in the fight against tax havens. without the g20 the situation would be desperate and the diseases could become chronic. but more importantly, the g20 initiative is not an event but a process. and the european union is the most integrated, important and balanced economic area in the world and therefore it must set the tone because it has great potential and can enrich the global agenda, considering that we are not just facing a short-term crisis, but a crisis with deeper causes that needs the political initiative of the european union.
the president-in-office of the council. − if you have madam president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the council has always shown its determination to strengthen cooperation within the european union, especially in times of crisis. building on the work of its predecessor, the czech presidency is working hard to address the challenges posed by the current financial and economic crisis, taking action at various levels by establishing a common framework for member states, as evidenced by the bank rescue package and the european economic recovery plan, the regulation and supervision of financial markets, with the involvement of the european parliament in promoting infrastructure investment, and, last but not least, by its efforts on the international stage. the european council of 19 and 20 march focused on the management of the financial crisis and real economy problems and made it clear that europe can only face these problems and survive the current crisis if it acts in a united and coordinated manner within the framework of the single market and economic and monetary union. at its meeting on 19 march, the council agreed that the european union's strong coordinated response in the framework of the european economic recovery plan should mobilise all available instruments, including community funds, and should fully integrate the strategies for growth, employment, social inclusion and social protection. as regards the lisbon treaty, the european council reached agreement on the way forward in december last year. at ireland's request, member states agreed to provide certain legal safeguards on issues that were a source of concern during last year's referendum in ireland. the european council also agreed that, subject to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, a decision should be taken, in accordance with the necessary legal procedures, to the effect that each member state would continue to have its national in the commission. subject to the completion of detailed follow-up work on these issues by mid-2009 and subject to satisfactory implementation, the irish government has also committed to seek ratification of the treaty of lisbon by the end of the current commission term. the european council of 19 and 20 march was informed of the current state of play of this matter and decided to return to it at its june 2009 meeting.
the president-in-office of the council. - i'll answer all questions in summary.
the president-in-office of the council. - thank you, madam chairman. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to answer the question posed. i would like to emphasise that in the czech republic, as regards the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, the bicameral parliament, consisting of the chamber of deputies and the senate, is working very intensively on this treaty, with the chamber of deputies of the parliament of the czech republic having given its consent on 18 february this year. i would like to emphasise here that according to the czech constitutional provision, a constitutional majority is necessary to approve this treaty. the senate of the parliament of the czech republic will most likely vote on this treaty on 6 may, with the senate having bound its consent to the elaboration of the relevant draft law, which makes the transfer of powers from one level, i.e. decision-making by qualified majority, subject to the consent of both chambers of the parliament. this is called a tied mandate. the relevant law has already been drafted and approved, so we expect that on may 6 the senate of the czech republic will vote on this law and after voting on this proposal, the lisbon treaty will have completed parliamentary ratification.
the president-in-office of the council. - i must stress that we should all have the courage to admit that awareness of the way the european union works is very low among european union citizens. the european union is often very distant from its citizens, its institutions are very incomprehensible and the lower the level of awareness, the easier the conditions for the use of disinformation, for example, become, which is more easily ingrained in people's minds precisely because people have insufficient information about the functioning of the european union. i think that it is precisely addressing a certain democratic deficit and addressing the fact that citizens do not always fully identify with the european union and its institutions that will create the conditions for disinformation not to have a chance or a chance to take hold where it is false. i am convinced that it is, of course, the essential task of every government of a member state of the european union to refute false and misleading information, but on the other hand, the governments of the member states of the european union should inform their citizens truthfully on all aspects of european integration. i am convinced that only then will we achieve truly democratic procedures.
the president-in-office of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the current state of community development, no measures have been adopted at community level to deal with the avoidance of double taxation in the field of taxation, apart from council directive 90/435/eec of 23 july 1990 on the common system of taxation applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries of different member states, the convention of 23 july 1990 on the avoidance of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises and council directive 2003/48/ec of 3 june 2003 on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. it follows that that area falls within the competence of the member states, provided that they respect community law. the double taxation agreements concluded bilaterally between member states in accordance with the aforementioned autonomy under the oecd model agreement do not appear to be sufficient to eliminate all legal double taxation in the european union. the commission, which has the exclusive right of legislative initiative in the community in relation to direct taxation, currently seems to prefer a pragmatic approach to this issue, given the principle of subsidiarity applicable to community legislation in the field of direct taxation and given the requirement of unanimity. such a pragmatic approach could be to strengthen cooperation between member states to ensure that their national tax systems, including bilateral taxation agreements, work smoothly with each other. this is stated, inter alia, in the commission communication on the coordination of the direct taxation systems of the member states in the internal market, in particular in com 2006/823 final. the council confirmed this approach of coordination of the commission in its conclusions of 27 march 2007. it stressed that the functioning of the internal market could be improved through cooperation in the field of taxation at member state level, and where appropriate at european level, while respecting the competences of the member states. the council noted that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, appropriate solutions could take different forms.
mr president, the information you have given me is correct, but the impression we have as european parliamentarians and, in short, as european citizens, is that we have a very dangerous loophole in community law. at the moment, as tax requirements are being tightened in each of the member states, mobility is almost impossible. and when we ask the commission why it is taking a pragmatic approach, it turns out that the commission never finds support in the council. we are in a kind of vicious circle whereby the commission refers us to the council and the council refers us to the commission, but in the meantime the reality is that the citizens living in this europe we want to build do not have the possibility of living in different countries, of establishing relations, as a result of the heavy tax burden that the lack of tax harmonization can impose. can the council do anything to break this vicious circle?
the president-in-office of the council. − first of all, i would like to emphasise that the number of companies that have ceased to exist and those that have been created, as well as the specific conditions for setting up a new company, vary widely from one eu member state to another. while in some cases it takes a few days to set up a small or medium-sized enterprise, in others it unfortunately takes a few months. it is of course possible to draw up a rough outline containing the information you request, madam president, and we would provide it in writing.
president of the council in office. in its conclusions of 19 and 20 march 2009, the european council noted that substantial domestic and external sources of private and public financing, in particular in the most vulnerable developing countries, will be required to finance mitigation and adaptation measures, and that the eu will contribute equitably to the financing of these measures in developing countries. commission estimates based on recent studies suggest that additional public and private investment will need to increase to around €175 billion by 2020 to reduce emissions to a level compatible with the eu target. current analyses also predict that more than half of these investments will need to be made in developing countries. the unfccc secretariat further estimates that the scale of adaptation needs in developing countries in 2030 will range from eur 23 to eur 54 billion per year. the council adopted a clear position on the financing of mitigation measures in developing countries. developing countries should develop strategies and plans for the development of a low-carbon economy with the help of developed countries. those strategies and plans should distinguish between measures that can be taken on their own, as they have zero or very low costs or even net benefits in the medium term, and measures that will lead to positive additional costs that individual countries cannot easily bear on their own. sufficient, predictable and timely financial support is essential for the implementation of the copenhagen accord. the international financial architecture providing such support shall be based on the principles of efficiency, effectiveness, equity, transparency, accountability, coherence, predictability and sound financial management. with regard to the source of funding, the european council confirmed options that could be further explored in international negotiations, a contribution-based approach based on an agreed scale, a market-based approach based on an auction arrangement or a combination of these and other options. moreover, in the transition to a global carbon market, flexibility mechanisms, the clean development mechanism and joint implementation will continue to play an important role in financing emission reductions in developing and transition economies. in this context, it will be important to strengthen environmental integrity, contribution to sustainable development and equitable geographical distribution. it is also necessary to further expand the carbon market to provide clear signals on the carbon price. this is one of the most cost-effective ways of reducing emissions, while providing a clear incentive for the transition to a low-carbon economy. in addition, following the agreement of the eu on the climate and energy legislative package, the council also underlined the contribution of this package to the eu's efforts to secure funding for climate change mitigation and adaptation measures. it is clear that there is still a lot to be done in the area of financing. the european council decided to return to this subject at its june meeting in order to further clarify its position in the context of the ongoing international negotiations.
the president-in-office of the council. - madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the shorter the presidency of this czech government, the faster it tries to be, and that is perhaps why we try to be so fast and to deal with everything administratively in a timely manner. in reply to the question put by the honourable member, i would like to say that the european council will be discussing this matter again in june this year. the council considers it important to focus more on financial mechanisms to combat climate change. the council shall, in due time before the copenhagen conference, make public the approach of the european union to the different methods of financing mitigation and adaptation measures, to the promotion of new technologies and to the creation of an appropriate environment for the implementation of these plans. the council will also show how the eu will concretely participate in these plans and explain how the costs and efforts to achieve these objectives will be shared between the member states. all this on the basis of concrete proposals from the european commission. as regards some other issues of financing the global climate change agreement, the eu has made it clear that it wants to take on the corresponding responsibility in this matter. in addition, the eu has set out basic principles for funding and indicated its willingness to negotiate these options with its partners in the world. but it's clearly too early to reveal our cards by releasing some numbers. it would be unwise, unwise, untactical. we have an idea of how much resources will be needed to implement the global plan. however, we need to know at least approximately what mitigation measures third countries are going to introduce. in this context, i would like to point out that the eu already made a voluntary commitment to reduce emissions by 20% in 2007, and a 30% commitment in the event of a successful global agreement, long before any other country in the world had even published any mitigation proposals.
the following is the report by mr magor imre csibi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-related products (recast) (com (2008) 0399 - c6-0277/2008 - 2008/0151 (cod)) (a6-0096/2009).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the following is the report by catherine neris, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products (com (2008) 0311 - c6-0203/2008 - 2008/0098 (cod)) (a6-0068/2009).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank you for allowing me to speak again. i don't need it. i can only thank you for this constructive and helpful debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the following is the joint debate on the reports by mr benoît hamon, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments (com (2008) 0727 - c6-0464/2008 - 2008/0215 (cns)) (a6-0244/2009), and by mr cornelis visser, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax as regards tax evasion linked to imports and other crossborder transactions (com (2008) 0805 - c6-0039/2009 - 2008/0228 (cns)) (a6-0189/2009).
madam president, for once i am glad that the president is not here, that mr tajani is here, because mr tajani has the advantage of having been a member of the european parliament. and as a member of the european parliament, i know that you have experienced the frustration that we members of the european parliament have with the application of community law. but in parliament we tend to get into it with the commission, and i think we are asking the commission for an impossible task, because all community law and all the application of community law is based on indirect application. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should not be involved in the negotiations. all community law, all the application of community law, is based on the action of national authorities: national parliaments, national judges, national officials. and here, in this respect, i do not think we can ask too much of the commission. what we have to do is to help the commission, and i think that in mrs frassoni's report there are some points which can be useful in getting this implemented. i am referring to those relating to the correlation of directives, the cooperation of national parliaments and the action of national courts.
madam president, during the last five years, as a member of the european parliament and a member of the committee on petitions, i have examined hundreds and hundreds of petitions, complaints and questions on the environment, and i have seen very little cooperation from the national authorities, even a real rebellion, a state of rebellion by some member states against the implementation of the habitats directive and other environmental directives. we see how inadequate the commission's services are, which do not have the resources or the political will to apply community law in high-profile cases. it takes so many years that in most cases, when an infringement procedure reaches the european court, we act in articulo mortis, and then the law, in the environment, in irreversible situations, is no longer useful.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. madam president, i will only comment on the regulation on crossborder payments and the report by mrs starkevičiūtė. the regulation, as she has already explained very well, responds to the needs felt as a result of the introduction of the euro and establishes a relatively clear principle: fees must be the same for national payments as for crossborder payments, a rule of common sense in an internal market but which was far from being fulfilled before this regulation. the regulation thus became a launching pad for the single area of payments to which the rapporteur has also referred and therefore any further comment is superfluous. the passage of time has made this regulation obsolete and it has been necessary to revise it to adapt it to the evolution of the financial markets and to adapt it also to the payment services directive. the commission set itself three objectives in this review: first, to include crossborder direct debits in its scope; second, to establish procedures for the extrajudicial review of problems which might arise from the application of the regulation; and third, to alleviate the obligations of statistical information on the balance of payments. the european parliament agreed in general with this view but made three important changes: a clarification of the legal definitions laid down in the regulation, a warning or a warning to the states to comply with the regulation better than they had done in the past and, thirdly, a call also for important coordination between the states. my concern was the issue of balance of payments statistical obligations which has been resolved in the agreement between the various institutions and i am therefore fully satisfied with the result achieved by agreement between all of them.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on women's rights in afghanistan.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the legislation on family rights for the shia community in afghanistan has rightly attracted a great deal of attention. we are following political developments on the ground very closely through our delegation and with the eu special representative and the representatives of the member states. we naturally respect the independence of the legislative process in afghanistan, particularly in relation to the constitution which specifically provides for the possibility of legislation exclusively for the shia community, under article 131, but we have nevertheless supported, with our partners, a move which targets some of the articles of that law which are hardly compatible with the afghan constitution and the international law to which the afghan government has subscribed. the european union therefore made a request to the afghan government on 12 april. in our approach we specifically reminded the government of its obligations under international conventions on civil and political rights, discrimination against women and the rights of the child. we have stressed that the proposed legislation would significantly impede the full enjoyment by women of their rights to participate equally in the economic, social, cultural, civil and political life of afghan society. it is likely that the international reaction as well as that of afghan civil society contributed to the afghan government's decision to refer this legislation to the ministry of justice for a general review, in particular in relation to afghanistan's said obligations under international law. it goes without saying that this review will be conducted entirely under the authority of the afghan government. in the political context of this country, it is essential that the government fully assume its responsibilities in the legislative and institutional process. we will follow this review very closely with our international partners, and also in the context of our support for institutional reform in the justice sector.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on support for the special court for sierra leone.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the special court for sierra leone, as has already been said here, has certainly set a precedent. a precedent because, as the resolution rightly points out, it is the first international tribunal financed by voluntary contributions, it is the first tribunal to be set up in the country where the alleged crimes took place and it is also the first tribunal - as has already been pointed out - in which a former prime minister has been tried. for all these reasons, not only because it is a precedent, but also because it is a reference for other tribunals which have been set up on its behalf - such as those in rwanda, the former yugoslavia, cambodia and lebanon - we consider it essential that this resolution, on which we have been working together with the court for several months, be adopted. two years ago we adopted a resolution to support its financing, because at that time the court was going through a difficult period, it was running out of money and it did not have enough support. we should also thank the european commission for coming out to provide financial support to this court. we now ask for two things in particular: firstly, that the sentenced persons serve their sentences - the court's work is no longer at stake, as its term of office ends next year, but the legacy that this court will leave us - and secondly, obviously, that all this be accompanied by increased funding. in short, the special court for sierra leone is an example and a reference for all of us and for all the courts that have tried war crimes. it is an example and a reference and it is a lesson that is being given to us by the second poorest country on this planet: when we entered the court, we saw the slogan written: "without justice there is no peace". and that is precisely why we have a moral obligation, not only as europeans, but as human beings, to ensure that the legacy of this court remains in history.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has been very committed to helping sierra leone transition from a post-war situation to a situation of growth and development. the commission is fully supportive of the country's commitment to consolidating peace, stability and, above all, democracy. in this regard, the commission recognises and appreciates the key role that the special court for sierra leone has played and continues to play in the context of restoring a situation of peace and stability in sierra leone. we are convinced that the activities of the tribunal can send the message to all that no serious crime against humanity, no genocide and no war crime will go unpunished. the tribunal for sierra leone is an essential function in the development of international law, thanks to the case law that is created on issues such as the recruitment of child soldiers and forced marriages, which were the subject of the first judgments of the tribunal. to this end, the commission has supported the activities of the court of first instance since 2003. we have given the court €2.7 million through the european instrument for democracy and human rights. the purpose of this financing is to: support the court's outreach activities aimed at promoting the rule of law, international humanitarian law and human rights in sierra leone and the whole west africa region. in addition, in 2008 the commission approved a €1 million project under the 10th european development fund, developed in cooperation with the court and the government of sierra leone. the project, which will be carried out in 2009 and 2010, complements previous activities and aims to ensure a lasting legacy that can be relied upon after the end of the tribunal's activities, in particular by enhancing the skills of legal professionals and institutionally strengthening the entire judicial system of sierra leone. in 2008, the commission, informed of the court's budgetary problems, provided the court with emergency aid amounting to eur 2.5 million, financed from the stability instrument and intended to cover the costs of financing, in particular salaries, of the court's staff. in this connection, the commission was pleased to learn that the court of first instance had succeeded in covering the budget deficit for a few months. we are confident that despite the global financial crisis, the international community will be able to find the resources necessary for the tribunal to successfully and fully discharge its mandate and bring to a conclusion the trial of the former president of liberia, mr charles taylor. before concluding, i would like to express my support for the request to study and investigate further the role and functions of the various specialised tribunals, in this regard i am pleased to inform you, on behalf of the commission, that two initiatives in this area will be funded under the human rights heading 'conflict and security' of the seventh framework research programme.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the humanitarian situation of the residents of the ashraf camp.
author. − mr president, this morning we will be voting on a joint motion for a resolution co-signed by four political groups on the situation of the ashraf refugee camp in iraq. three thousand five hundred iranian men and women, members of the democratic opposition to the fundamentalist regime in iran, live there completely defenceless. in the last few weeks they have been under pressure and harassment by the faction of the iraqi government under the influence of the iranian regime, and there is a high probability that at any moment a tragedy could happen that would parallel the ones we witnessed in the balkans not so long ago. we all remember srebrenica, and i have no doubt that no member in this chamber wants a second srebrenica in iraq. our motion for a resolution is a call to alert public opinion all over the world before a disaster takes place. unfortunately, some colleagues have tabled amendments that could increase the danger for the residents in camp ashraf and provide the iranian regime and its proxies in iraq with arguments to massacre them. i recently visited the camp myself and i assure you that the allegations included in the amendments tabled are absolutely unfounded. people in ashraf are there on a volunteer basis. they are free to leave whenever they want and they live in the best friendly relations with the iraqi population of the region. the intention of our motion is to protect these people. nobody would understand – but if these amendments are adopted the result of the motion would be exactly the opposite. this is not a political issue, colleagues: it is purely humanitarian and it is very urgent. i beg you to vote against all amendments tabled to this joint motion supported by these four groups and support the motion as it has been agreed by these four groups that are of very different political stances. the lives of many innocent and harmless people depend on your vote. please do not let them down.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i ask you to speak, but under the best possible conditions, because it is very difficult to speak with all the members on their feet. i have great respect for parliament, but it seems to me that it is really impossible to speak in this situation!
you're right, i know. ladies and gentlemen, we will not close this debate until everyone is seated and silent. i say to the members in the corridors and in the debate: we will not close the debate until the talks are over and the vice-president of the commission can be heard with due respect!
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i thank you because i believe it is right to participate in debates by listening to what is said and by intervening in an appropriate way. i'm going to speak french now. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is regularly monitoring the situation in iraq, particularly in the ashraf camps. as we all know, in january 2009, the iraqi government took back control of that area. as regards the humanitarian situation in this camp, the commission was informed by the international committee of the red cross and other international organizations which have been monitoring the situation that no significant deterioration of living conditions or violation of international conventions had been reported. the commission fully shares the view that the closure of the camp must be in accordance with a legal framework and that the lives and physical and moral integration of its residents may be threatened. it is necessary to apply international humanitarian standards, including the principle of non-refoulement. on several occasions, the iraqi government declared its willingness to treat the camp residents in a decent manner and to affirm that it had no intention of illegally expelling the members of this organization or forcing them to leave iraq. the commission is aware of this, but as always, it insists on respect for the rule of law and is counting on the iraqi government to act in this direction. during their meeting with the commission in march 2009, the iraqi authorities reiterated their commitment to respect international humanitarian standards and to refrain from the use of force, including forced returns to iraq. the iraqi ministry of human rights is currently conducting individual interviews with residents to establish their rights and to determine whether they prefer to return to iraq or to leave for a third country. in recent weeks, some members have chosen to leave the camps and have been able to do so without encountering difficulties. the commission supports these efforts. the commission, in conjunction with the representatives of the member states present on the ground, will continue to monitor developments. (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time.
i would like to say, mr president, that we must send a realistic message to society, as the commissioner has tried to do. science is much better prepared than it was four years ago to deal with this pandemic, and the few deaths that are occurring are proof of that. much more is known about the avian and human extremes and the repertoire of transmission of this pig virus. much more is known about the solutions, so i think we should rely on research, encourage research and call for much more research into vaccines, as mr trakatellis has said. we also know that society is much better prepared than it was a long time ago, thanks to the great baggage and organization in all countries, especially in europe, to prevent, to have medicines stored and to have a comprehensive system of care for citizens. however, i am concerned that not enough information is being given to those same citizens. if we look at the press, we see that 90 percent of what is published, or much more, is a call to attention about the number of sick people who are falling, but very little is said about the remedies and how the citizen has to behave. i think the information has to be much bigger. i think that at the same time much more political efforts must be made towards the citizens. it is striking to me, for example, that no socialist member has appeared at the debate and that all his benches are empty, and that no one has asked to speak to defend this, when this is a subject which is outside the parties and which concerns all governments. i would also like to stress whether it is politically possible to take a step forward, as my predecessor has said in the use of the word, for third countries. we must reach out to all those who do not have the conditions, the base or the capacity building to serve all citizens. the europe of solidarity must therefore be set in motion, as must the europe of communication.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i am pleased to note that the issues of equality between men and women and, in particular, non-discrimination between the sexes are gradually gaining social and political ground. however, the debates we have had in recent weeks on the reform of these two directives show how much remains to be said and convinced. i am one of those who believe that true equality will only come about when we succeed in establishing the right frameworks so that women are not discriminated against in the public sphere or in the workplace, but also when those frameworks allow and even force men to take on their responsibilities in the private and domestic sphere. in this connection, i insist that maternity leave at european level should be at least 24 weeks, as the who and the european women's lobby are in fact calling for, and i stress the urgency of moving towards equal co-responsibility on the part of couples, in order to share the burden, but also the responsibility, of raising sons and daughters.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, although the futile effort leads to melancholy, i will say again that the opt-out must disappear, because it was foreseen for ten years, ending in 2003, and that termination is of high interest for health, for the reconciliation of family and professional life, so that we make a coherent speech - what you have just done half an hour ago with the following - to respect the international conventions of the ilo, to make european social law a reality, so that workers' organizations are not destroyed, so that citizens do not lose confidence in the european institutions. there has been no conciliation, as our president has said, because the council's proposal has always been to go backwards, backwards to the 19th century, to make labour law a purely bilateral relationship between worker and employer, without laws, without rules, without anything to respect beyond the so-called 'free choice', forgetting that there is an asymmetry of power between worker and employer. it's not true, they're giving false explanations. parliament has moved, it has given all sorts of alternatives to solve real problems, but it is an ideological problem. the council did not want to end the opt-out. the minority in the council wanted the opt-out, which was temporary in 1993, to be permanent and, with the vote of parliament, forever, leaving us with hope and dignity in this fight. they did not want to do that, they simply wanted to make a cosmetic face-wash of the opt-out, but to do so for ever, destroying one of the basic instruments of european social law. that is the truth, and it is not true that it was a reduction in working hours; the commission and council's proposal made 78 hours a week, because it was 60 and 65 in three-month calculations. so stop saying things that aren't true. stop fooling the public. say you wanted to do forever what was temporary in 1993. and say they wanted to make normal what was exceptional. we have been asked to make this a derogation, as in article 20; a derogation, not an exception: to make it a normal thing. and at the same time, his proposal was a proposal for an unlimited attack on the case law of the court of justice. he was taking away doctors' rights, taking away their working conditions. they have never come close, not in our view, to the court's view on compensatory rest for doctors; it was an unlimited aggression against workers. and we've been told, to accuse us, that we were doing it during an election period. it is an honour to listen to the citizens and to listen to the workers. we have a huge social crisis, a huge distance between citizens and our institutions. fortunately, parliament has not fallen on its knees before the council, and fortunately, commissioner, there will be a new parliament, a new executive committee, probably changes in the governments of the member states, and there is hope for the workers of europe: the mandate of 17 december has been upheld and we will continue, commissioner. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, the recognition of failure is the first step in being prepared for success. the conciliation process has indeed failed, but not the possibility of rebuilding the dialogue today. the difficulty was not simply to deal in a practical way with the reality of the individual derogation from the maximum weekly working time of 48 hours, because it was precisely to overcome this difficulty that parliament offered long transitional periods; the problem arose from very different conceptions when considering a community rule whose ultimate aim is the protection of health and safety at work. the problem was also to regulate the duty time in accordance with the judgments of the court of justice. as regards the major problem of 'opt-out', i think that what the council was proposing was legally contradictory and, above all, went against what i consider to be the essential elements of a europe which cannot and must not renounce its social dimension without denaturing itself. it was not possible to accept in community legislation a general and permanent rule which goes against the commission's own recommendation, which in its social agenda calls on the member states to comply with the ilo convention. it was also possible to reach agreement by acting on the set of exceptions and general rules and it was also possible to have recourse to the contribution of the social partners, who, while respecting their autonomy, can promote fair and effective agreements. finally, parliament's proposals contained solutions to meet the needs of companies, namely flexibility to adapt working hours to workloads, because it is a reality that there are no equal sectors or equal companies within each sector and because what we need and, above all, what my country needs, which has the unfortunate record of the highest unemployment rate in the union, is that our companies hire more and lay off less. i am one of those who are convinced that we urgently need reforms in our social systems and who believe that it is perfectly possible to reconcile economic efficiency with the aspiration for social improvement, to reconcile freedom and justice and that is precisely why we must set limits, social minimums for all the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the consensus reached suggests that the proposal will have strong support and will be adopted at first reading tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is true that the states were initially suspicious, since the proposed measure 'the acquisition by the community of competence in criminal matters' will not be the result of a reform of the treaties but will be achieved through case-law which is, moreover, indisputable and of enormous depth. this is all the more necessary because of the need to deal with a widespread problem in maritime transport, namely the worrying escalation of illicit operational discharges of pollutants from ships. although there is already international legislation to deal with this situation - the marpol convention 73/78 - there has been a clear lack of implementation and enforcement; in addition, it has been found that the existing civil liability regimes for pollution from ships are not sufficiently dissuasive. so common is the bad practice in certain parts of the european coast that some of the shipping managers prefer to carry out the illegal activity of polluting in practice, because it is cheaper for them to pay the administrative penalty than to comply with the legislation in force. with these behaviours, the old principle that the polluter pays has been converted into paying to pollute. the european union is seeking to dissuade potential polluters from any infringement by introducing penal sanctions because of the severity and social disapproval of administrative sanctions. as a result of the negotiations with the council, represented by the czech presidency, which is certainly to my credit - and has had to face political difficulties throughout its term of office - the directive is being reformed structurally, without affecting the substance of parliament's mandate and in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity, since the directive lays down the principle of sanctioning conduct in the terms defined by the judgment of the european court of justice, but leaves it to the member states to define the types of criminal offences. the distinction between minor and serious spills and the different sanctions they merit is also consolidated. so far, we've been successful. it was merely a reproduction of the consensus reached during the debate and adoption of directive 2005/35/ec and council framework decision 2005/667/jha, but on the new legal basis, since those judgments open up the possibility for the community legislature to adopt measures relating to the criminal law of the member states. the main innovation we introduce in this amendment, which will enable us to take a further step in the fight against environmental crime in the shipping sector, is the claim, made by this rapporteur from day one, that the repetition of minor discharges with water pollution can also constitute a crime. i am pleased to note that i have not been alone in this battle either, as parliament gave me its support through the members of the transport committee and the commission and the council have finally come to understand the depth and scope of my proposal. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who have helped me in this endeavour and who have been a support for the strength of the negotiations with the council and the commission, and i would like to thank the opinion rapporteurs from the legal affairs and environment committees for their contributions. a compromise solution has been reached with regard to the date of entry into force of the directive, which will be within the next 12 months. i believe that today is a day of satisfaction for all of us, ladies and gentlemen, because with the adoption of this legislation, together with the adoption of the third maritime package at the beginning of march, the european union has consolidated its leading position in the field of safety at sea. i am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that we will be an example to others.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that at the end of this debate we can only rejoice in the interinstitutional cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission, as mr jarzembowski has emphasized in his speech. i also thank the rapporteur for his work. the institutions have shown, even at the end of this parliamentary term, that they are capable of working together and of reaching a solution at first reading, and i believe that this is the message we are sending to the citizens on the eve of the european elections. another message in the delicate field of transport, and i take this opportunity, as we are in one of the last debates involving the european parliament's committee on transport, to thank all the representatives of the committee, in collaboration with the european commission and myself, for the work they have done to resolve in concrete terms some important issues, some of which have been dragging on for months, thanks to the intelligence of the members of parliament, thanks also to the work we have done with efficient cooperation between the services, to show that when a bureaucracy has very precise tasks, when it knows what the objectives are to be achieved, it is not an obstacle to the citizens, but it is an effective tool to respond, together with politics, to the demands of the citizens. today i believe that parliament, and tomorrow, of course, with the vote, is demonstrating yet another level of efficiency and a willingness to always be on the side of the citizens. so, with this debate, with this vote, the commission, parliament and council are filling a legal void and allowing the member states, as of tomorrow, to be able to better prosecute those who pollute our seas, another action that the european institutions have taken to strengthen the rights and freedoms of european citizens.
the rapporteur. - mr president, very briefly - and i am sure your honourable members will thank me at this hour - mr vice-president of the commission, thank you very much once again for demonstrating, as you did in the third maritime package, that your political drive and your political stature have been able to push for an agreement close to the council and to make it possible for parliament, the council and the commission to reach agreement in this instance and in these last days when the legislature is ending. i think we should congratulate ourselves. i am certainly grateful for the close cooperation of the rapporteurs from both the committee on legal affairs and the committee on the environment. i am grateful, and i repeat it, for the work and collaboration of the shadow rapporteurs and, in short, i believe that the fact that we are adopting an agreement at first reading tomorrow on such an important regulation, which will undoubtedly complete the work of the third maritime package, means a success for this parliament and for the european union in the three institutions and once again justifies the co-decision procedure, which is useful and allows for a constructive dialogue for the benefit of all the citizens of the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start by answering mr harbour. i see clearly why we need to address the issue of services, and services are definitely a very important part of the consumer strategy for 2007-2013. i fully realise that the european economy is a service economy. as to why we are not addressing, for example, digital content, and excluding it from the scope of the proposal, i can state that the issue of consumer protection in respect of digital content services was raised in the green paper consultation. several stakeholders, and in particular consumer organisations, consider this to be an important matter. however, it raised serious concerns in business quarters, and respondents argued that because of the complexity of the issue further careful analysis was needed. to this end, the commission will carry out a study in order to determine the scope of the problem and the extent of the consumers suffering detriment as a result of digital content not being covered. i would like to turn to digital issues next time, with rock solid arguments. without wishing to waste either the time of parliament or of consumers and businesses, may i kindly inform you that tomorrow, together with commissioner reding, i will present the digital guide. this is a very practical guide based on the existing legislation – about 20 directives – which forms a kind of compendium of what we can do right now to enforce our rights, because sometimes the most important point is how we enforce legislation. on the remarks which mr toubon made, i should say that, under the proposal, member states will be able to retain general contract law remedies for faulty goods, and this means that remedies such as the right to reject in the uk, or the garantie des vices cachés in france, may be maintained. sometimes we need to invest more time in explaining the content of a directive, and that is what my colleagues are doing in the council. at the least we need to make clear what we mean in one or other text, and this is the stage at which we can clearly settle questionable issues. the commission is now going through the various provisions of the proposal in more detail with the member states, in order to improve understanding of the practical impact on national law, exactly as you, mr toubon, and parliament asked. we will spare no effort to make everything clear. this is a legal text; this is a civil text; and how this legal text can even be translated is itself quite a challenge. we will therefore keep explaining and maintaining the good level of collaboration with the council, and with parliament, on this aspect. thank you, once again, for the last comment, mrs cederschiöld. i will keep your proposals in mind. you are right to say that we are negotiating the directive. i listened very carefully, but let me be very clear in saying that there is one point on which i will not compromise, and that is full harmonisation.
the ombudsman's office has been asked to investigate the allegations of discrimination on grounds of age in the context of the european union's fight against racism and xenophobia. the commission and parliament had taken the decision years before not to hire freelance interpreters who were older than the retirement age of their own officials. the interpreters concerned took the matter to the court, won at first instance, but on appeal the decision was reversed, albeit by default of form and without going into the substance. in the light of the background and judgments, the ombudsman rigorously examined the complaint and concluded that there was indeed discrimination and a violation of the charter of fundamental rights, and recommended that the commission change the rule in line with the behaviour already adopted by parliament following the court's ruling at first instance. the commission turned a deaf ear to the ombudsman's recommendation, which forced it to seek parliament's protection, which referred the case to the committee on petitions. there were three reasons why the committee on petitions supported the ombudsman in the resolution which was unanimously adopted in that committee: first, in line with the parliament's own conduct, which had been hiring freelance interpreters over the age of 65 whenever it seemed appropriate or necessary. secondly, the obligation to protect the ombudsman. parliament considers the ombudsman to be an institution which is sometimes uncomfortable but always indispensable in our legal system. and thirdly, we were moved to draw attention to the european commission, reminding it that it is not above other community bodies, especially those which have the responsibility of monitoring and supervising its work. we have thus come to this point, by presenting to the house the resolution which was adopted - as i say - unanimously by the committee on petitions and which calls on the commission to comply with the recommendation of the ombudsman, reiterating further that the ombudsman, together with parliament itself, is above the commission's legal service, which is an important service, but an administrative service and nothing more. nothing less, but nothing more than that. i will not hide, mr president, madam commissioner, a certain unease, because throughout this whole process we have always sought understanding, but nevertheless there have been certain pressures to prevent the report from reaching the plenary, and even now some comments suggest that parliament will not be taken into account either. this is surprising, indeed, not because of the commissioners themselves, but because of certain senior officials - a few, but some senior official - who are convinced that they are permanent staff, as opposed to members of parliament and even commissioners, who are, by definition, temporary staff and are here only on a temporary basis. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter, and that it is not only the commission but also the council which has taken the initiative.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all, i would like to stress that the commission has acted in good faith, strictly respecting all relevant legal rules in the process. we have never been seeking a conflict with the ombudsman, and even less so with the european parliament. our opinion was that our position would be recognised by the ombudsman. our starting point is that, over the years, the working conditions for agents interprètes de conference (aics) have been increasingly aligned to the rules of the staff regulations. since 2000, freelance interpreters have been linked to the staff regulations, after the decision of the council of ministers that they can pay community tax instead of national taxes on their income from the european institutions. and then, from 2004 on, they have been covered by article 90 of the conditions of employment of other servants, which is why they are now called aics. the age limit of 65 years is a rule of the staff regulations that covers all categories of personnel working for the institutions, be they officials, temporary, contract or auxiliary staff, as well as parliamentary assistants, following the recent adoption of a new regulation in this respect. this rule was applied to aics by the commission, as well as parliament, between 2000 and 2004. following a decision of the court of first instance in 2004 stating that not to recruit aics over the age of 65 constitutes discrimination, the institutions suspended the application of the rule. however, following an appeal against the decision, the court declared it null and void. consequently the commission returned to its previous practice. as there is no longer a court decision in the matter, our reading is that the previous line applies and that the commission has to apply the rules deriving from the council regulation of the year 2000 and stop recruiting at the age of 65, exactly as for other staff. the freedom of the interpretation services of the institutions to recruit aics according to their needs is a cornerstone of efficient delivery of conference interpretation. this makes it possible to have most regular and predictable demand covered by staff interpreters, whilst fluctuating demand and peak situations are catered for by recruiting aics. this tried and tested system has made it possible for the institutions to satisfy requests for interpretation according to demand, including making a success of the latest enlargements while keeping costs under strict control. this approach also supports an active policy of training of young conference interpreters. finally, i would like to welcome the very positive contacts between parliament and the commission in this matter, and i would especially like to thank vice-president martínez martínez for his valuable contacts with my colleague commissioner orban in a previous phase.
the rapporteur. - mr president, as i have been absent for a minute before, i would like to reply to the commissioner, who knows of my friendship and affection for her and indeed of my friendship and affection for mr orban. but the commissioner has not said a word about the ombudsman's recommendation. in other words, the ombudsman, who is aware of all the arguments which the commissioner has given us, has made a precise recommendation which the commission seems to ignore in every way. i do not even want mrs kuneva to answer me because she obviously does not have the data, but all the data she has given me are in line with what we knew and what the ombudsman also knows and she does not tell us whether, despite all that, and as the ombudsman, who knows that, recommends that the rule be changed, she does not tell us whether the commission is going to take on what the ombudsman asks and what parliament recommends in the light of what the ombudsman has asked.
member of the commission. − mr president, the only thing that i can tell you at this stage is that i will report back to commissioner orban and make sure that you will have an adequate answer on this point. of course we will take your comments very seriously and the last clarification which you asked for.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the telecommunications sector is not left to the discretion of the member states, and that the commission is not obliged to take any action to ensure that the telecommunications sector is not left to the discretion of the member states. so thank you very much. naturally, i would also like to thank all those who have taken part: the shadows, and in particular the secretariat of the committee on industry, research and energy, which i believe has played an absolutely fundamental role in bringing us to this point, and then the commissioner, the commission, because she has facilitated all the difficult negotiations of the trilogue at all times. and i do not want to forget the efforts made by the czech presidency, from the initial moments when the situation was more babbling, to this moment when the czech presidency has really played a leading role in the council. i would also like to thank him very particularly for the effort he has made. we are facing, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a review of a regulation which affects a sector which is key to the future of europe, key to the well-being of citizens, key to overcoming the deep crisis in which our economies are found, in europe and elsewhere, but now we are talking about the european union. if there is one sector which can really be the main driver, the driving force for the recovery from the crisis, it is precisely the information and communication technologies sector, the electronic communications sector or the telecommunications sector. and that is why it is so radically important that we have now been able to reach this agreement, because it will allow us to go ahead with what i believe is the most important position to be maintained, the position of not being closed in on ourselves, the position of looking ahead, the position of renouncing protectionism and instead being in favour of competition and competitiveness, and for that the role of this sector is fundamental. and in relation to the package - various aspects of the various reports have already been mentioned - i only want to mention here, because i was the rapporteur for this report, the one concerning the creation of the new body of european regulators in the electronic communications sector, a fundamental instrument to ensure that the rules we are going to adopt tomorrow, that new regulation, have a consistent application throughout the european union, that it is better to allow for practical harmonisation, that it is better to guarantee competition, that it is better to create a guarantee for the internal market, that it is better to create a guarantee for the internal market, that it is better to ensure that european consumers enjoy the best prices, because it is to the benefit of the internal market, and to ensure that european consumers have the best prices. it is competition and not something else that guarantees precisely that end result, that benefit for consumers and for our economies. so no to protectionism, yes to openness and competition, and this is precisely what the electronic communications sector, this telecommunications market, can best guarantee. so we are in luck.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to join the other members of this house in thanking the honourable member and the commissioner for the work we have all done together, and for which i think we can congratulate ourselves today. i would also like to thank the unconditional support i have had as rapporteur for the gsm directive, in particular the shadows who have worked with me, and in particular commissioner reding for the flexibility she has shown throughout this process in giving back to parliament that role we had called for, of involvement in the strategic planning of spectrum. and of course also to the czech presidency, because it has clearly stated its willingness to resolve this directive together with the rest of the package before the end of the mandate. i believe, as rapporteur for this gsm directive, that the final solution we have given by including the strategic planning of spectrum at community level in the future multiannual programmes for radio spectrum policy, linking it to the framework directive, has been a good one. this is right because we are thereby recognising that spectrum, as a scarce public good, needs the control of the legislator and also that strategic planning in the development of new networks - wireless and optical fibre - which are - and we have all pointed this out - the future, a future in which we must offer legal certainty to operators so that they can invest and we can regain the leadership that the european union once had. it is also very important - and i would like to stress this - that we have introduced the principle of technological neutrality of the network into this general framework, because this was an exception to that principle, and we are thus giving parliament a double legitimacy in dealing with a situation of this size. i think that in this context this directive is a good example of how to give greater flexibility to spectrum management, as the reform of this telecommunications package as a whole is intended to do. we cannot forget, and i would like to point out - as some of my colleagues have done - that in the european union the turnover of services related to radio spectrum is approximately eur 300 billion, i.e. we are talking about 1.2% of community gdp. optimising the management of this scarce public resource will therefore undoubtedly be of great help, particularly in these times of economic crisis, and will undoubtedly help to overcome the crisis. i believe that this is an investment opportunity for companies to develop new services which can re-energize demand and also contribute to improving public services for citizens. in short, an efficient spectrum policy in the european union that allows us to get the most social and economic return from this resource, which we want to do at the lowest possible cost, and that offers greater business opportunity for service providers. we are all undoubtedly interested in having more and better services for consumers, which is what we are ultimately legislating for, and above all in better provision of public services for citizens, that is, in being able to work together to achieve greater social and territorial inclusion of european citizens. ladies and gentlemen, i think we can congratulate ourselves today on the completion of much needed work for a sector such as telecommunications, a sector which in 2008 continued to grow at a rate of 1.3% in real terms against a real increase of 1% in gdp in the economy as a whole. it is true that our work requires the support of all of you tomorrow, which i ask for so that we can finally have this legislative framework.
madam president, thank you, commissioner, for the pleasure of participating in the whole process, which has been very exciting, and thank you to the rapporteurs. at the same time, mr sarkozy is giving the european institutions a pulse on the future of the internet. what is our answer? are we going to be silent, without an answer? what is the position of the european union and the commission on the new hadopi (high authority for the dissemination of works and the protection of rights on the internet) act on the graduated response? we must listen to the voice of the vast majority of europeans, especially young people who have grown up in a digital environment, and these people do not want to put doors on the field, do not want to put a heavy lock on the sharing of knowledge, culture and data on the internet. the vast majority want freedom, want to preserve privacy, want to have access to culture without fear, without anguish, want to preserve net neutrality, want no filters or discrimination in data traffic. the vast majority of us want operators not to become digital police, spies, judges and parties at the same time, who marginalize the normal judicial procedures of a state governed by the rule of law. and this has to be clear. we therefore ask the rapporteur, mrs trautmann, to change the voting list so that at least we can vote, before voting on the transaction, the position already adopted by more than 80% of this house, in favour of internet rights and in favour of intervening in these rights only if there is a prior judicial decision. net neutrality is in danger, not only because of that but also because of what is called 'traffic management' and i am afraid there are aspects in the harbour report, of universal services, that do not protect neutrality clearly. merely informing consumers in contracts is not enough.
member of the commission. - madam president, thank you to everyone who has made this very important package possible. i am thinking of the rapporteurs and their collaborators, of course, but i am also thinking of the czech presidency, and i would like to say officially here that ambassador jana reinišová has been fantastic in her collaboration with parliament and the commission to make this project possible. we now have a balanced text, which allows for open markets, investment, internet freedom and the right to internet. we have a text which has potential for the development of industry and therefore for the preservation and development of employment and for users. the text balances the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs with the many advances in consumer rights for internet users. allow me to answer some of the questions which have been raised. one of the issues concerned investment in next-generation access networks by ensuring that telecom operators receive a fair return on investment, taking due account of the risk involved. it is already possible for several companies to share the investment risk under the current rules. the new rules confirm this and say at the same time that effective competition and non-discrimination rules have to be maintained. this is very important. i want to underline it because i sometimes hear only part of the story, but it is the whole story on investment which has to be applied in practice. the second question concerns data breaches. operators must assume the responsibility that comes with processing and storing these huge amounts of information. the new rules therefore introduce mandatory notifications for personal data breaches for the first time in european law. this means that communication providers will be obliged to inform the authorities and their customers about security breaches affecting their personal data. in addition, the rules concerning privacy and data protection are strengthened in such areas as the use of cookies and similar devices. internet users will be better informed about what happens to their personal data and will find it easier to exercise control over their personal information in practice. a second element concerns a more open and neutral internet for consumers. european consumers will have an ever greater choice of competing broadband service providers available to them. internet service providers have powerful tools at their disposal that allow them to differentiate between the various types of data transmission on the internet, such as voice or peer-to-peer communication. even though traffic management can allow premium high-quality services to develop and can help ensure secure communications, the same techniques may also be used to degrade the quality of communications or other services to unacceptably low levels. that is why, under the new eu rules, national telecom authorities will have the power to set a minimum quality level for network transmission services so as to promote net neutrality and net freedoms for european citizens. in the new text, we have added new transparency requirements which are of the utmost importance. the fourth element i would like to stress is the recognition of the right to internet access. the new rules explicitly recognise that internet access is a fundamental right such as the freedom of expression and the freedom to access information. the rules therefore provide that any measures taken regarding access to, or use of, services and applications must respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, including the right to privacy, freedom of expression and access to information and education as well as due process. madam president, i thought it was very important to emphasize these fundamental rights because they are the basis of our european values, european values which are also based on the new telecommunications rules. and by the way, i would like to speak up because there are many parliamentarians who have spoken up about this on the freedom of the internet. the compromise is a victory for the freedom of citizens and internet users. this compromise, firstly, very clearly affirms the freedoms of our citizens as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, including the right of access to the internet, which is an integral part of freedom of expression and information. secondly, the compromise makes clear that the disproportionate solutions that have been proposed to restrict the rights of internet users are not legal. and thirdly, the compromise confirms that there must always be the possibility of bringing a case to a judge, an independent and impartial tribunal, whose decision must be respected. all this is in the compromise and i believe that on the basis of this compromise the work that the commission and parliament will be doing in the very near future will have a solid basis which will underline the rights of our citizens and the intrinsic values of our europe. that said, i would ask the council to act quickly so that the final version of the text, which i hope will be voted on tomorrow, can be presented as soon as possible and without delay.
the rapporteur. - madam president, very briefly, i would like to thank once again all the parties involved in this long debate on the telecommunications package: the commissioner, the other rapporteurs, in short, all those who have taken part, in addition to the presidency-in-office of the council. i shall summarize in three arguments what i consider to be the main arguments to sum up the benefits of this decision, which i believe we will be voting on tomorrow in this parliament by a large majority. this revision of the telecommunications legislative framework has three immediate consequences. the first is that the development of new generation networks will be facilitated and therefore consumers will benefit because they will have a possibility to move, access and transact on the internet that will be faster, safer and more beneficial in all respects, not only for individual consumers but also, for example, for small and mediumsized enterprises, for which the network is also essential. secondly, there will be more competition in the internal market, and as a result there will be a benefit also for consumers, whether they are individuals or companies. there will be a benefit because there will be better prices, because there will be better products, because there will be more innovation as a consequence of that competition being more important, it is bigger, it is more real. and finally, all this will be done - and let no one outside this parliament have any doubt about it - throughout europe, respecting fundamental rights, and there can be no national rule that does not respect those rights, because the european decision is that the principle on which this reform is based guarantees the fundamental right of access to the internet.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank all the members for their speeches and for the debate, which was indeed very positive. i believe that this reform has made a major contribution to the innovative society of the 21st century. the foundations have been laid for further contribution and opportunity to the telecommunications sector, which is such a dynamic sector for the economic and social development of the european union and, above all, also for consumer protection. i am sure, and i think the debate has shown this, that there are many more lights, although some shadows may appear, such as perhaps the inclusion in this package - as the commissioner herself and some colleagues have already said - of the debate on the contents. but i think that the transaction has also solved this aspect well, because for the first time - as has been said - it is included in the scope of application of two directives, in article 1, it includes the recognition of fundamental rights and freedoms and also of access to the internet. and, in case of any doubt, i would like to join mrs trautmann in asking that when it is the member states who have to guarantee this privacy, this freedom of expression, this freedom of information and, in general, all the rights enshrined in the european convention for the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, it be under the rigorous and strict supervision of the european commission, which i believe is the greatest guarantor at the moment, together with parliament, so that freedom on the internet is a principle balanced with the rest of the fundamental freedoms. that's all, and thank you very much, your honours. i think we have done a good job, we should congratulate ourselves and i therefore ask for a positive vote on it.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the european council of 18 and 19 june will take place two weeks after the european elections, and in democracy elections are the most important thing. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for the fact that tomorrow the czech senate will finally lift the handbrake on the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. the only thing left now is for the president-in-office, who is in prague castle, to sign the treaty of lisbon, but it seems that we are making progress. now, there is one important thing: he will be elected under the treaty of nice, but he will live in the next legislature under the treaty of lisbon. this means, from a democratic point of view, that the commission is now vested with greater powers than in the last legislature, and i am now referring to the candidate mr barroso: you have been a candidate since last sunday, you are already president-in-office. i think it makes a lot of sense, mr barroso, that you should be asking what the economic and social answers to the problems we have, to the crisis we have, can be, not by using the services of the commission, but as the leader of the epp; i think that is very important so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where the european council wants parliament to be consulted only (remember the butiglione case). madam president, in my last speech to the european parliament, i would ask you to address the president of parliament and tell him that it is very important that he should mention at the european council the situation of the 19 members who will be absent from the next parliament because of the non-ratification of the treaty of lisbon. that is an essential issue for democracy and i think the president of parliament should defend it.
madam president, allow me to begin by thanking mr enrique barón for his europeanist trajectory and his great work in this parliament. we're going to miss him very much. madam president, on 9 may we celebrate 'europe day' in all our countries, but the truth is that every now and then we should celebrate 'no europe day' to see what europe would be like if there were no european union. but i think there was a certain smell of the upcoming elections in this house today, and it seems to me that many of the criticisms we have heard here, especially of the european commission, are totally unfounded. i think the commission has reacted well to the economic crisis; i wonder what would have happened if we had not reacted. and to some dear colleague, friend, who is not listening to me either, i would remind her of a compatriot of hers, andré gide, who said that everything exaggerated is worthless, and it seems to me that we must put things in their place. madam president, allow me to add my voice to that of president leinen. i think it is very important that we take the spirit of lisbon into account throughout the process of electing the president of the commission. i am sure that mr vondra will take this into account and his successor will also, because it seems to me that holding elections to the european parliament and not taking the result of those elections into account and not consulting the political groups in the european parliament to present a candidate to this house is politically pointless. and that must be said very clearly and it must be said to the council: 'do not make the mistake of doing the opposite of what this parliament is going to approve by a very large majority in mr dehaene's report.' and finally, mr vondra, i would like to congratulate you on your presidency. in the end, you have to distinguish the accidental from the necessary, from the important, and i think you've done a good job. i learned many years ago, thanks to kundera and others, that the czech republic was an important part of europe, and you have shown that and i want to thank you for it. they have had a difficult time, but in the end, mr vondra, i want to think that tomorrow will be a great day in the czech senate and (should one never say what one feels, as one of my classics said) i feel and will feel great pride when the czech republic approves the treaty of lisbon tomorrow. thank you, madam president, and so be it, as we say in my country.
madam president, i am speaking of the renewed social agenda. let me begin by sincerely thanking our rapporteur, mr silva peneda, for his work; i think that, in view of his contribution to this house in the field of social policy and employment, we could very well speak of the 'silva peneda collection'. madam president, citizens are feeling mistrust and fear: unemployment is increasing, and in my country it is increasing dramatically. we must turn this situation around and the social agenda must do that. economic progress and social progress are not divergent paths; on the contrary, if we want to stimulate growth and provide more and better jobs, we need and must put the social agenda into action, starting with everything that is most consensual. we must not waste time, we must not be stuck in a position of blockade; we must look beyond the horizon of local, short-term interests and look beyond future generations. the social europe must be the area that unites and not divides, because we are talking about the common european interest. the social agenda cannot be separated from a renewed lisbon strategy, because economic success supports social benefits and social benefits must also support economic success. in the coming years, europe will face a stagnation and a progressive ageing of its population. we cannot practice the politics of the ostrich, we need to modernise our social model, precisely to improve it and to make it sustainable and fair. we have structural weaknesses, madam president, which are very heavy slabs and which prevent us from moving forward. let's fight those slabs and get the social agenda moving.
member of the commission. − let me first recall that member states are, under community law, largely free to design their direct tax systems in a way that best meets their domestic policy objectives and requirements. but in recent years they have reached common agreement on several measures proposed by the commission that are designed to tackle the erosion of tax bases and investment allocation distortions. in doing so, member states have acknowledged that eu-wide cooperation and fair tax competition rules are vital to protect revenues. on the question of transparency raised by an honourable member of parliament, i would like to recall that very recently, on 28 april 2009, the european commission adopted a communication identifying actions in order to promote good governance in the tax area, which means transparency, exchange of information and fair tax competition. firstly the communication identifies how good governance in the tax area could be improved within the european union so as to reinforce the argument for other jurisdictions to follow. it calls on member states to swiftly adopt commission proposals for directives on administrative cooperation and mutual assistance in the recovery of taxes and savings taxation. member states should also continue to give appropriate priority to eliminating harmful business tax regimes. more specifically, the commission’s proposal on administrative cooperation contains a provision according to which bank secrecy could no longer be invoked to deny a request for information from another member state relating to persons non-resident in the requested member state. this is entirely in line with international consensus on tax information exchange. secondly, in order to enhance the promotion of good governance beyond the european union, the communication suggests how to ensure better coherence between eu policies with a view to ensuring that the deepening of economic relations between the european union and its partner jurisdictions would be accompanied by a commitment to good governance principles. particular emphasis is placed on ensuring support for developing countries which have committed to the good governance principles. the communication also proposes ways of ensuring more coherence between member states’ individual policy positions in the international tax area and agreed good governance principles. this would notably include, where appropriate, a coordinated response to jurisdictions that refuse to apply good governance principles. today the commission presented the communication to the eu ministers of finance at the ecofin meeting, with a view to seeking their support on the proposed approach for the last ecofin meeting of the czech presidency in june 2009.
i thank you very much for your answer, commissioner. you have touched on a number of issues, such as transparency; what i am a little bit missing in your speech is a reference to the recent agreements, in the framework of the group of 20, on the fight against tax havens, on what are called 'non-cooperative jurisdictions'. is the commission cooperating with this proposal from the group of 20 or has it been completely out of the way of such negotiations?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are debating today replaces, as we have heard, a directive which has become obsolete due to technological advances with a new regulation which will allow for the uniform application throughout the european union of community animal welfare requirements. in the context of the internal market, and since compliance with the rules may reduce competitiveness, it will allow for similar conditions of competition for all community operators. in fact, the committee on agriculture and rural development, which has opted to exempt small operators from certain requirements, has increased - and that is the text we are debating today - the responsibility of the rest of the large operators and, moreover, has created the figure of the person responsible for animal welfare in the large companies. the report we are discussing improves the commission's proposal on fundamental issues. for example, it nullifies the attempt to amend the existing rules on the transport of animals with regard to their duration by means of this proposal - which we found to be completely unreasonable - and it maintains the current ban on transport for those who are not suitable for transport because of their special conditions. it also corrects and clarifies the responsibility of companies for compliance with welfare standards: it is the operators, not the workers, who must ensure that the rules are applied. and finally, commissioner, i would like you to bear in mind that in the european union the legal order of the regions and countries is by no means the same, it is different in each case. the national reference centres which you have mentioned and which you have just mentioned in your speech, if they were to be implemented as the commission proposes in its proposal, would lead to the creation of 17 national reference centres in spain, not just one. the powers in spain are transferred from the central government to the autonomous communities and we would therefore be obliged to multiply by 17 the national centre which you believe is possible. it would be a barbaric thing to have one centre per region. we therefore propose that the competent authority should be responsible for ensuring that the rules are properly applied.
the committee on budgets' rapporteur for the opinion. mr president, i would like to convey the opinion of the committee on budgets, of which i was rapporteur, on the proposal to amend the regulation on aid for rural development through the european agricultural fund for rural development, a proposal which forms part of the european economic recovery plan. the european council at the end of march 2009 proposed €3.98 billion for the energy sector and €1.02 billion for the rural development fund, all to create new broadband infrastructure in rural areas, improve existing infrastructure and respond to new challenges: climate change, renewable energy, biodiversity and restructuring of the dairy sector. the committee on budgets unanimously considered that the reference amount contained in that legislative proposal is compatible with the ceiling of heading 2 of the current multiannual financial framework 2007-2013.
madam president, commissioners, the president-in-office of the council (wherever he may be, who is not here)... in this house words matter: calling a 'european economic recovery plan' of five billion euros is a joke on the part of the european commission, but it does not correspond to reality; it is a simple budgetary transfer, modest, limited in scope and of little consequence. however, this is to be welcomed, not so much for the financial allocation, but for what it means in political and budgetary terms: it means, first of all, a recognition that the current financial perspective framework that we have approved for the period 2007-2013 does not have its own instruments to deal with an economic crisis situation. to find five billion euros, as reimer böge mentioned, it has been necessary to force the budgetary procedures, to strain the interinstitutional agreement and to spend six months of work by the three institutions; and all this, as has been said many times, to leave half the funding subject to the chance of another conciliation. it is also a strange way of protecting community agriculture. let us not be mistaken: the common agricultural policy, in the end, finances with its margins the insufficient appropriations for other categories of expenditure. and this is a direct consequence of the bad negotiation of the financial perspective. we shall see what the consequences are when we have to negotiate the next agricultural agreement in 2013. the objectives of this package are therefore welcome, but we hope that we will not have to regret in the future the means we have used.
mr president, the adoption of this directive, as a first response to the financial crisis of august 2007, should not be delayed. the commission's proposal is to be implemented with caution, to avoid any sudden upheavals, and to be accompanied by a more ambitious review in the light of international developments. financial institutions need a strong capital base and to compete on a level playing field through a harmonised definition of own funds, in particular for hybrid instruments, and a proportionate strengthening of the treatment of large risks. the introduction of more transparency and alignment of the interests of the originator with those of investors in securitisation processes is essential. the retention on the balance sheet of at least 5% of securitised products, the avoidance of multiple application and the reinforcement of investor due diligence go in this direction. the creation of colleges of supervisors for cross-border groups and the strengthening of the role of the committee of european banking supervisors is a step towards more integrated european supervision.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, the eu was also fully engaged throughout the run-up to the conference and actively contributed to the drafting of the outcome document, with a view to making it as balanced as possible and ensuring that it respected the existing human rights norms, notably with regard to the freedom of expression. the eu also succeeded in ensuring that israel was not singled out in the text. it was to a large extent due to the eu’s unified efforts that in the end we produced a text respecting our red lines, and this independently of the fact that some eu member states decided not to participate in their national capacity. it should also be added that the countries that did not attend the conference did not prevent the european union, as such, from speaking at the conference. the presidency continued the internal coordination of the eu’s participation, including the preparation of two statements on behalf of all the eu member states which were delivered by sweden, the incoming presidency. the final statement was delivered on behalf of 22 states. the eu will analyse, in the aftermath of durban, how it will continue to support the durban agenda. the fact that five member states out of 27 decided in the end not to participate in the conference itself by no means puts into question the eu’s commitment to the fight against racism and discrimination in the future. we have a solid acquis on these issues on which we will continue to build. as was rightly pointed out – and i take it as a kind of criticism – at the end of the preparations for the conference we were not really able to find a common ground. there was never any common ground, so there was never an eu position before the conference. it was decided by consensus that there were national positions, so the delegations left the room in their national capacities. i repeat that the ministers discussed this issue at the last meeting and lessons will be learned. we will have to reflect and come back, because the eu did not take the ‘heroic’ path at this conference. that must be noted.
vice-president of the commission. - thank you for all your contributions. on monday, commissioner ferrero-waldner received a letter from the united nations high commissioner for human rights, mrs pillay, which was also addressed to all the union's foreign ministers. in this letter, mrs pillay recalls what she had already said in brussels on 8 october last at a conference co-organised by the european parliament on the protection of human rights defenders. mrs pillay considered it important to restore a certain unity in the protection and promotion of human rights in the world, particularly in the fight against racism. it calls on all un member states to join in the implementation of the un programme to combat racism, in particular as set out in the outcome document of the durban conference. i think the european union should consider how to respond to this invitation. in any event, the european union has adopted an active policy to combat racism. it must remain vigilant and committed if international efforts in this area are to remain clearly effective. i share the sentiment expressed here, personally: a europe which had a strategy and which had not acted in a dispersed manner would have surely taken advantage of this opportunity to express its protest with one voice against unacceptable words. this should serve as a lesson to us. i thank the presidency for pointing out that this should serve as a lesson and that we should be able to strengthen the effectiveness of the european union's external policy on human rights, and thus make european action in multilateral fora more effective. i can only agree with the comments made by a number of members, whom i thank. again, this should give us pause to think about more effective strategies for the future.
the rapporteur, mrs schleicher, has just said that the report is a report on the situation of human rights in the world and the role of the european union in this field. firstly, the report has two distinct areas: one is a description and assessment of the unfortunately negative human rights situation in many countries and regions of the world, often bordering on or entering the territory of human tragedy; and an assessment based on the acquis, the acquis, of this parliament in taking a position on the various problems and also based on a willingness of the rapporteur to place himself in the mainstream of what the positions and actions of the various institutions of the european union are, not seeking to emphasize the elements of differentiation, but mainly the aspects of coincidence, because the rapporteur believes that it is with the convergence of positions that we gain strength and effectiveness in this slow and difficult world and work to improve the human rights situation. and then there is a second aspect on which i have placed particular emphasis, which is to try to identify certain priorities, that is to say, to build a summary of what can be the basic guiding elements of the european union's action on human rights in the world as a whole. i would point out nine points in this area which are clearly disaggregated from the body of colleagues' contributions and the overall structure of the report. the first of these places a temporary priority, or if you like, using a term which is a little grand in historical terms, the fight for the definitive abolition of the death penalty in the world. just as previous generations achieved the goal of universal abolition of slavery in the past, our perception is that today, for our contemporary generations, it is perfectly feasible to achieve the historic goal of universal abolition of the death penalty in the world and that the european union's role must be key, leading, in this field. secondly, particular emphasis is placed on what the report calls the 'feminization of the fight for human rights', i.e. it is pointed out that women are the part of humanity that is the most affected by human rights violations and that the union must pay particular attention and priority to this fact. the question of the human rights of children is also included in this priority, and the report contains a number of points which i think are quite interesting. thirdly, it calls for synergy between the community institutions. it is not good that there is a specialisation of roles - more realpolitik in the council or, possibly, in the commission, more principles in parliament - but that the positions must converge to be effective. fourthly, there is talk of the need to broaden and deepen the very positive trend of developing human rights dialogues with third countries. finally, there is talk of the need to seek alliances within international institutions to avoid situations such as that of the united nations human rights council, where the european union is sometimes a minority presence.
madam president, the report which mr obiols is presenting to us on the situation of human rights in the world is a demonstration of the unwavering and unwavering commitment of our parliament to the cause of human rights in the world; as i have said on other occasions, this cause should not be preached in relation to a region, a country or a continent, but it must have a planetary or universal character. the situation which the report presents us with as regards the human rights situation in countries such as iran, china or russia, in guantanamo and in other countries such as cuba, where it has not been allowed to exercise a fundamental right, such as allowing the ladies in white who come to collect the sakharov prize, to enter and leave their own country, or in other countries, such as nicaragua or venezuela, which will be the subject of a separate resolution, which will be voted on tomorrow, shows us how far we are from achieving that, as we intend, respect for human rights prevails in all regions of the planet. i would like to refer, madam president, to the amendment tabled by some of my colleagues to ask that this parliament condemn the head of an institution which, despite all the mistakes that have been made over two millennia and for which many apologies have been made, has been characterized by a really determined defence of the dignity of the person. and that the pope, as the spiritual leader of hundreds of millions of people, and as the head of a sovereign state, cannot give his opinion on a sensitive issue of our time, in conscience, without being condemned, seems to me frankly an act of intolerance. i think, madam president, that this amendment is grotesque. i have worked with the authors of this amendment on other occasions, but i think that at this particular moment the presentation of this amendment is to confuse the adjective with the noun, the accessory with the fundamental, and i think that the fundamental is to respect the opinion of others, even if it does not coincide with ours, without condemning anyone, and it also means, madam president, to confuse the shadows of the picture with the picture.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, before i start my concluding remarks i would like to inform the honourable members of the outcome of the discussion in the czech senate on the lisbon treaty. i am glad to announce to you that the majority of the senators voted in favour of the lisbon treaty. (applause) thank you very much. this is a small moment of joy in our presidency. continuing with the subject, let me once again thank the rapporteur for his work and for the difficult exercise carried out in drafting his report. he identified several priorities, on which i would like to spend a few moments in my remarks. on the death penalty, it is clear that we must make abolition the achievement of our generation. on women’s rights, i see this issue as being of particular relevance, especially in the light of the growing involvement of the eu in esdp operations and missions in areas where women remain under threat and victims of the worst human rights violation. i am thinking in particular of the drc and afghanistan, where we have eu missions and where we definitely need to do all we can do to improve the situation. one of the key challenges we face internally is the greater mainstreaming of human rights across the esdp and cfsp, which was also mentioned during the debate. the presidencies, together with the personal representative for human rights of the secretary-general’s high representative, have continued to mainstream human rights into relevant geographical and thematical working parties and into political dialogue. the presidency continues the efforts of previous presidencies to promote the mainstreaming of human rights into the activities of the special representative, as well as into esdp operations. in this context, mr solana’s personal representative, mrs kionka, organised a workshop with eu special representatives and high representatives on focal points intended to provide a toolbox to help them in their daily work of promoting human rights. last but not least we have identified the fight for universal human rights as one of the main challenges we face in international fora. i believe we have to double our efforts in reaching out to governments. we must support emerging civil society organisations and human rights defenders who, internally, are the best advocates of the protection of human rights. democracies owe a lot to the emerging movements of citizens who, like charter 77 in its time in my country, can be instrumental in bringing about change.
vice-president of the commission. - i would first like to congratulate myself on this good news, after these failures, which opens the way to the lisbon treaty we are waiting for and which includes - i do not forget this in this debate - the charter of fundamental rights. and i am very grateful to the european parliament, which has become, in a certain sense, a sounding board for all the legitimate demands that the defence of human rights entails. i must say that we in europe are proud to have a parliament which is so sensitive to all these problems which affect human rights, the rights of the child, the rights of women who are victims of violence and discrimination throughout the world. you have mentioned all these projects in progress, following on from the excellent report by your rapporteur, mr obiols i germà, whom i would like to thank again. i would like to say how much we want this cooperation with the european parliament to continue, and perhaps mrs benita ferrero-waldner would have said better than i how much this european union's foreign policy should be inspired by a number of values, values which the european parliament has just recalled in your various speeches. you will allow me, in turn, to express my absolute opposition to the death penalty, but also to torture. in this connection, i would nevertheless like to stress that the european union is pleased today to see the united states, with president obama, turning the page on certain excesses that may have been committed in the fight against terrorism. this is an important element and should further strengthen our resolve to fight against all forms of torture in the world. it's a personal commitment that i hold very dear. i would also like to emphasize the role of the european union in the many assistance missions and election observation missions, which also serve, of course, to defend and promote democracy in the world. we know the link between democracy and respect for human rights. i believe that this is also the european union's asset. i could have answered more specific questions about the kids. i have had the commission adopt the revision of the framework decision on the sexual exploitation of children, so that, in particular - since an intervention has been made on this subject - our member states will be able to continue sex tourism, even if the acts committed were not in europe, which will open the way to a very desirable clean-up in this area. i cannot list all the responses that your excellent speeches would call for, but i would like to thank the european parliament, madam president, for being so vigilant in this area, which in the end illustrates the best of our european community, that attachment to common values.
the rapporteur. - madam president, two things, very quickly. the first is that, in the field of human rights, the best policy is undoubtedly the one that unites; therefore, if there is a priority message in this report, it is the message of unity. unity among the member states of the union, firstly, because we have recently had problems in this respect which should be corrected as quickly as possible; secondly, unity among the institutions; and thirdly, unity or convergence of approaches. between realpolitik, which looks the other way when human rights are violated, obeying other interests, or testimonialism, there is a path of political voluntarism, of political intelligence, which is the one to follow. the second thing is that, of course, if we are in favour of the efficiency gained by unity, the greater the majority in the vote on this report tomorrow, the more effective its future implementation will be. i would like to say in this connection that when voting on amendments, we should have regard primarily to the search for the largest possible majority in this house, not for personal pruritus, because reports are not copyrighted, but for a pruritus of political efficiency the next day.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have the honour to open this joint debate on five reports which are very important for establishing a common european policy on asylum. my own concerns the modification of the european refugee fund, the erf, in order to reallocate funds for the creation of a european asylum support office which will take the institutional form of a regulatory agency. the agency shall, inter alia, be responsible for facilitating and strengthening practical cooperation between member states in order to contribute to the implementation of the common european asylum system. since some of the tasks currently allocated and financed under the erf will be carried out by the office, such as the promotion of good practice, interpretation and translation services and support for the production and use of common statistics, it is necessary, in the interests of transparency and sound management of resources, to transfer part of the erf funds to the office. the current rules provide for 10% of the fund's allocation to be devoted to these tasks. the commission proposes that this percentage be reduced to 4% and that the remaining resources be transferred to the new office. the fund's financial allocation for the period 2008-2013 would thus rise from eur 628 million to eur 614 million. we agree with the commission that these figures are sufficient for the first tranche of the fund until 2013, when a further review of the fund is planned. the committee on civil liberties has been kind enough to entrust me with the pleasant task of advocating the opportunity for the creation of this office, a proposal which has been unanimously approved by the two committees concerned, the committee on civil liberties and the committee on budgets. while parliament, as we know, is reluctant to create new agencies, as a budgetary authority its main concern is the proper and rational management of the resources allocated, in this case to ensure practical cooperation between member states on asylum. it is well known that the acceptance rates of asylum applications vary considerably from one member state to another, with the resulting accumulation of difficulties for the host member state in managing them, especially for the states situated on the southern borders of the european union, which are regularly overwhelmed by the considerable number of people who suddenly arrive at their borders, bearing in mind, moreover, that among all of them it is necessary to identify those in need of protection. the offer of support for the resettlement and internal and voluntary relocation of asylum seekers is the best proof and expression of the solidarity which member states should show. that is, and must be, the main purpose of the creation of this office. madam president, i shall end here with my remarks on what concerns us now and, like you, i would like to take a few minutes, the last few minutes, to say a few words of farewell. this is my last speech to this house. like you, madam president, i too would like to thank all the members of this house, my fellow members, the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, the colleagues in the commission, for the collaboration we have had over the years. we have discussed it, we have not always agreed, but in the end i think we have always done a good job of bringing it to the plenary of this parliament. when i came here 22 years ago, madam president, i entered the european economic community of 12 member states, and now i am happy to leave a european union of 27 member states. it has been a real privilege to be in the very kitchen of european construction. it's a unique and magnificent experience. i also think that one of the greatest successes has been to achieve, madam president, the 'never-before' that was at the root of the creation of european unification; i think we can congratulate ourselves on that. i am very glad that i have had the opportunity to have this experience and i ask for your understanding, because i am now going to be absent from this debate, as i am returning to the basque country, where we are witnessing some historic events: after 30 years of a nationalist government we are going to have a socialist president of the basque country, patxi lópez, and i would like to represent my political group tomorrow at his inauguration. thank you very much and, as they say in spanish, goodbye. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - madam president, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs - and you yourself, madam president, with particular enthusiasm - have visited immigrant centres in different parts of europe, and have noted very different conditions and intolerable situations which need to be corrected. asylum seekers, however, are not comparable to irregular immigrants. asylum seekers are fleeing persecution; they are not attracted by economic factors, but are driven out by freedom-hating regimes. we spaniards know this well, since so many republican exiles were also welcomed in mexico, france and other countries. when the return directive was discussed, it was quite clear that this regulation would not apply to future legislation on the reception of asylum seekers; colleagues from the epp-ed also said that. i think it is essential that asylum seekers are informed in a language they understand. the limitation of information to asylum seekers in a language they understand or can be presumed to understand is a detriment to the present conditions and would not, i believe, be acceptable from a legal and human rights interpretation point of view. the right to be properly informed is fundamental, as it is the basis of all other rights. i have studied the financial burden of my proposal on material aid. my proposal calls for aid to asylum seekers to ensure a standard of living adequate to ensure their subsistence and the protection of their physical and mental health. to ask for less seems to me to be an affront to the dignity of asylum seekers. my proposal sets out the second reason for detention (article 8 (2) (b)) in the context of a prior interview in accordance with the guidelines established for detention by the united nations high commissioner for refugees. i also propose in article 9 (5) paragraph 1 that the judicial authorities review detention ex officio and, when circumstances change or new information emerges, at the request of the asylum seeker or, as i said before, in his absence, ex officio. oral amendment no 2 and transaction amendment no 5, adopted in committee, raise the problem of providing legal aid only in so far as it is necessary and free of charge, at the request of the asylum seeker. i ask for a separate vote on these two points, to return to legal aid which is closer to free, which i believe is fair. finally, if the initial proposals for social benefits for immigrants are reduced, as other groups have done in the committee vote, i think it is necessary, even in times of crisis, to guarantee effective access to the labour market. this will give them more autonomy, integrate them into the host society and reduce the social costs of living there. i would also like to thank mr barrot and his commission for all the work they have done during this directive.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs hennis-plasschaert, on her willingness to engage in dialogue and negotiation on this report. i would like to continue to remind you that asylum is a moral duty for the most favoured countries. we must not forget that, despite the serious economic circumstances we are living in today, solidarity is an essential element that must govern our asylum and immigration policies; solidarity with those who rightly require our protection and solidarity with those of our community partners who, because of their geographical circumstances and size, face greater migratory pressure. in this context, the so-called 'asylum package' is a necessary and indispensable instrument for the future development of migration policies in the european union. i would point out, however, that measures of such importance as those we are dealing with today require more time for reflection and study, and the limited room for manoeuvre we have as a result of the imposed deadlines is completely inadequate. the proposal contains a number of aspects which will certainly need to be reviewed in the near future. i refer to the situation of asylum seekers, the cases in which they may be detained, the fundamental difference between the concepts of 'detention' and 'detention', the facilities in which they may be detained, the formulation of the exceptions to transfer, the existence of exceptions to the general principle establishing the country responsible for examining the application, the identification of those who form part of the so-called 'nuclear family', the assistance to be provided to member states which suffer from a higher pressure of applications. despite these issues and in view of the speed with which we have worked, we can say that, on the whole, a balanced report has been adopted, a balanced package which addresses a large part of the concerns of my political group, in particular those aimed at guaranteeing the rights of applicants for international protection and those aimed at supporting the member states with the highest number of international applications. i would like to conclude by recalling that the right to effective judicial protection is a fundamental right enshrined in the european constitutions and, in particular, in article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the judiciary must therefore be the ultimate guarantor of the individual rights of applicants for international protection; this will require that applicants who may so request have legal aid. i would like to conclude, mr president, by referring to the need for the european asylum support office and the aid that can be granted through the european refugee fund.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers and, in particular, to renew my thanks to the rapporteurs. i would simply like to make a few remarks on the linguistic problem, particularly to mrs lefrançois. i should like to say that the commission considered that the formula according to which the asylum seeker must be informed in a language which he is likely to understand seemed to us to be balanced. this measure is intended to provide adequate information to asylum seekers and to combat possible abuses by certain asylum seekers. i should now like to thank parliament. but you will allow me to start by expressing my surprise at mr pirker's speech in particular. mr pirker, i cannot allow you to distort the commission's proposal. when i hear you say that the dublin review will push the shopping forum, i can't let you say that, it's not possible, it's not true. the commission proposal does not change the principles on which the dublin system is based. the applicant will not have the choice of the state of asylum, but it is true that the state responsible will be determined on the basis of objective criteria, taking into account a certain more humane approach, in particular family reunification. i cannot believe that, as a member of the epp, you are not aware of this problem of family reunification. i can't let you twist this proposal. the commission also needs to establish clear guarantees to prevent any abuse of the system. in particular, we have put in place a mechanism to identify vulnerable people. of course, the member states must ensure that the principles we have suggested are implemented in a fair and balanced way. i would also like to reply to mr blokland that the tasks of frontex and those of the support office should not be confused. these are different tasks requiring different skills if we really want the asylum application to be dealt with in europe with the necessary rigor and humanity. i cannot believe that the european parliament does not find broad agreement on the basis of the work done by the rapporteurs. it is true that you belong to different political families and have different political and philosophical sensibilities, but let us not forget that this europe, which has experienced persecution and sometimes major risks that put the lives of those who are persecuted in danger, is not a model in this matter. it is not a matter of preaching out of idealism but it is still a matter of being true to our values. i insist on it. i personally need very broad support from the european parliament.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, in my final remarks i would like to stress that the council welcomes parliament’s wish to make early progress in these important files and its recognition of the importance for the proper functioning of the common european asylum system. i can assure you that the council will now carefully consider the position which parliament has taken on the proposals in the work which is ongoing within the framework of the relevant council bodies. the council will in particular examine in detail parliament’s amendments with a view to establishing whether an agreement is possible on those proposals on which work is most advanced. let me also comment on the principle of solidarity. a few honourable members rightly point out that some member states, because of their geographical and demographic situation, really experience particular pressure on their asylum systems. in that light, the european council stressed the principle of solidarity in the european pact on immigration and asylum adopted in autumn 2008. the pact clearly calls for solidarity on a voluntary and coordinated basis towards better relocation of beneficiaries of international protection, as well as approved legislation, such as the part of the programme ‘solidarity and management of migration flows’, and provides for financing of such activities in which the member states can participate, again on a voluntary basis. it should be noted that the european asylum support office can be instrumental in these intra-community transfers by facilitating the exchange of information on such transfers. moreover, the office can help by coordinating the deployment of officials from other member states to member states under particular pressure. however, this regulation cannot serve as a legal basis creating an intra-community transfer mechanism. let me say at the end of my remarks that further work is ahead of us in the area, as the commission has already announced its intention to table further legislative proposals for the purpose of completing the common european asylum system. these proposals will concern asylum procedures and the standards for qualification and status for the qualification of applicants as refugees, as well as the establishment of resettlement schemes for people under the protection of the unhcr. we need to make progress as quickly as possible, while ensuring that speed does not compromise quality. that is something on which i am confident we can all agree.
the rapporteur. - commissioner barrot, you have my support; if you are complaining about the house, at least you have it from this rapporteur, and you have it from the first line of my report. i would also like to say that it is a legal, moral and historical lesson that you have given us this afternoon by way of a double intervention. one of the speakers spoke of effective judicial protection. of course, effective judicial protection is a fundamental principle! and that's why i'm demanding that the asylum seeker has to be informed in the language he understands, not in any other... if this is not done, there will be no effective judicial protection, and you cannot say otherwise, because you would be going against the very principles of the law to which you referred earlier.
on behalf of the pse group. i think that the proposals for regulations which the commission has put before us are important and necessary, and it was also important and necessary for the european parliament to insist on the principle which has been stressed by both rapporteurs, mr zwiefka and mr deprez, namely the principle of community competence. this is a matter of community competence in which, for practical reasons, it is appropriate to retain certain powers of the states, but, as mr barrot has said, limited in scope and time. community competence is unavailable and neither the council, the commission nor parliament has the power to waive such community competence. that being said - this is an exceptional procedure - i believe that the amendments which we have discussed and which we have tabled, and which i believe will be adopted by parliament tomorrow, will allow this package of measures to be adopted at first reading. but i also hope that the commission will be able to make progress in the future and on the basis of this, in the development of a genuine european private law which is increasingly necessary, as mr sógor has stressed in his last speech. we are talking about the problems that most directly affect people and, to the extent that we are able to solve their problems, people will realise that the european union has a role to play. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleagues, mr deprez and mr zwiefka, and thank the commission and the council for their willingness to work with us on this matter.
the debate is closed. the vote on this will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments.)
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, thank you for your kind words addressed to the czech republic and to the senate. we are also very pleased that the green light for the lisbon treaty is now much stronger than it was a few hours before. in response to the first question, i would like to say that the council shares the concerns expressed by the honourable member relating to the need to comprehensively address the problem of piracy of protected works. this issue has been identified as a policy priority by both the european parliament and the council in the context of the overall effort to protect and foster innovation of european creators and consequently the competitiveness of the european economy. the european parliament and the council have adopted directive 2004/48/ec, which puts in place a community framework for the enforcement of intellectual property rights and are currently working on a proposal for a directive on criminal measures, aimed at ensuring enforcement of such rights. the legislative framework already in force provides for a solid base for the member states to pursue effective protection of intellectual property rights, including by fighting piracy. moreover, the european community and the member states are participating in ongoing negotiations, such as the draft anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, in order to render the protection of intellectual property rights more effective at international level. on 25 september 2008, the council adopted a resolution setting down concrete actions to be taken by the member states and the commission in the context of a comprehensive european anti-counterfeiting and anti-piracy plan. moreover, the council adopted in november 2008 a set of conclusions in response to the commission communication of january 2008 on creative content online in the single market, highlighting, amongst other things, the need to promote and facilitate legitimate online offers of copyright-protected material as an important means of effectively fighting piracy. in the customs field, the council has adopted regulation (ec) no 1383/2003 concerning customs action against goods suspected of infringing certain intellectual property rights and the measures to be taken against goods found to have infringed such rights. this regulation sets out the conditions under which the customs authorities may intervene in cases where goods are suspected of infringing intellectual property rights and the steps to be taken by the authorities when goods are found to be illegal. in particular, the community has concluded a series of customs cooperation agreements, like the agreement recently concluded with china, in order to improve and facilitate cooperation with the customs authorities of third countries, inter alia for the fight against counterfeited and pirated goods. these agreements are practical means and methods of cooperation between the european community and the customs authorities of partner countries. these agreements are constantly implemented and updated in the framework of the joint customs cooperation committees established under these agreements. at multilateral level, the council actively contributes to the work undertaken under the auspices of the world customs organisation. lastly, on 16 march 2009, the council adopted a resolution on the eu customs action plan to combat intellectual property rights infringements for the years 2009-2012, following on from the abovementioned council resolution of 25 september 2008. the council remains open to examining any future initiatives that would aim at reinforcing the fight against counterfeiting and piracy so as to provide more comprehensive protection to right holders. the council appreciates all similar efforts by the european parliament to the same end.
thank you very much, mr president, for your answer. i think the council understands the problem, but i would like to insist and ask the president-in-office of the council whether the council is aware that at the moment european cultural creation is at a low point. the european union's law on the protection of cultural creation is specific to an underdeveloped country and, as a result, our cultural production is reaching levels of underdeveloped countries. this is particularly true in the audiovisual sector, where most of the production is now produced outside europe, mainly in the united states, because it is a country which protects cultural creation. if europe does not protect it, we will have no cultural creation. is the council aware of the responsibility it has at this time?
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, thank you for the supplementary remarks of the honourable member. we take it into account and we will consider it. i think he has raised an important problem, but at the moment there is no clear and simple way of resolving the issue, but i see it as a problem which the council should address in future discussions on these issues.
we shall resume the sitting with a very important item: the joint debate on the treaty of lisbon, which includes the following reports: the report by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the new powers of the european parliament and its responsibilities in the implementation of the treaty of lisbon (2008/2063 (ini)) (a6-0145/2009), the report by jean-luc dehaene, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the impact of the treaty of lisbon on the evolution of the institutional balance in the european union (2008/2073 (ini)) (a6-0142/2009), the report by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the development of relations between the european parliament and national parliaments under the treaty of lisbon (2008/2120 (ini)) (a6-0133/2009), the report by guy-quint catherine-via, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the new powers of the european parliament and its responsibilities in the implementation of the treaty of lisbon (2008/2063 (ini)) (a6-0145/2009), the report by jean-luc dehaene, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the impact of the treaty of the lisbon treaty on the evolution of the institutional balance in the european union (2008/2073 (ini)) (a6-0142/2009), the report by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the development of relations between the european parliament and the european parliament and national parliaments, on the treaty of the treaty of lisbon treaty) (a6-02021212121 (ini)) (a6-0136-0136-016/09), the report by guy-quint-quint-quint-quint-quint-quint-man, on behalf of as you can see, these are five very detailed reports and a hot topic, bearing in mind that, as you know, the senate of the czech republic has approved the ratification of the treaty with the required majority.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all, allow me to say a special ‘thank you’ to all the rapporteurs. i admire very much your commitment and, could i say, perseverance. maybe it is because i recognise what my husband would call stubbornness in your insisting on these issues being dealt with in this parliament that i also feel very much at ease and have established excellent cooperation with all of you. a special thanks to those of you who will leave. you have not only been very good collaborators and partners in all of this but also good friends and good sports. thank you very much. i think, mrs kaufmann, that you can be proud of helping to establish what i call establishing and charging the power lines between citizens and the european institutions – new power lines, drawing them up and charging them. i think that is quite something. i am, of course, delighted d to be able to take part in this debate tonight on the day when the czech republic has completed its parliamentary ratification of the treaty of lisbon. today’s vote brings to 26 the number of member states whose parliaments have backed the treaty. this debate, i think, offers a good opportunity to remind european citizens of the role of the treaty of lisbon in delivering a more democratic and coherent european union. at a time of economic crisis it is more important than ever to have a europe that works well, that has the right systems to ensure democracy. the treaty would give to the eu’s democratic institutions, most obviously this parliament, the powers they need. it would help the eu to act with greater unity and coherence on the world stage. it would allow europe to deliver more effectively on the key challenges we face today in areas like climate change and energy security. the reports we are discussing tonight will also help to ensure that, with the treaty in place, its implementation will be swifter and smoother. good cooperation between the institutions will be critical in securing the maximum benefits from the treaty, and the commission is committed to working in partnership with parliament and the other institutions to make this happen. the irish referendum was a sharp reminder of the need to anchor the case for europe within the national debate. the substantive concerns underlying the vote deserve to be taken seriously – and that was exactly what happened at the european council last december. the legal guarantees and the decision on the size of the commission show the respect given by europe’s political leadership to the result in ireland and the will to understand the reasons why they voted ‘no’ and respond to those concerns. but it also showed that they remained convinced that this treaty is right for europe. that is also why, since the vote, eight more member states have concluded their parliamentary proceedings, with eight more ‘yeses’. parliament’s reports add up to a comprehensive analysis of key aspects of the treaty. the underlying approach is to be ambitious for what the treaty can achieve for the eu – an approach fully shared by the commission. the reports are particularly valuable in deepening our thinking on how the treaty should work in practice. in their different ways, the five reports all show a strong, self-confident parliament looking for ways to maximise the potential of the treaty for improving the effectiveness, efficiency and accountability of eu action, to the benefit of voters and citizens. mr dehaene’s report sets out a lot of important detail, and the commission very widely shares the interpretations it makes of the treaty. the great strength of the report lies in the clarity with which it shows that implementing the treaty is not reinforcing one institution at the expense of another – the european union can only deliver what citizens expect if all institutions are strong and cooperate effectively. the report pays particular attention to the issue of transition, and there would have been many advantages in having the treaty in force before this year of institutional transition. unfortunately, that has not been possible. so a pragmatic and flexible approach is needed, finding a sensible way forward which will take into account the need to avoid any institutional vacuum this year; the importance of ensuring that the next commission will enjoy the full authority of a democratic mandate; and the need to respect the role of the parliament. the dehaene report sets out a model which will help us all to find the way forward. mr dehaene’s report calls for political and gender balance to be taken into consideration, together with geographical and demographic balance, in the appointment of eu top posts. in today’s europe, where more than 50% are women, they are still under-represented in politics. this commission – as you know – has the highest number of women commissioners ever. still, this is not enough. improving the gender balance should be an objective when the next commission is appointed: an objective that can be achieved if there is strong political support from the next parliament. i also hope that we will have more women in the european parliament and in top eu posts. without them, we all lose out on their knowledge, experience and ideas. mrs guy-quint’s report tackles another important issue: how to organise the union’s financial planning cycle for the best use of the eu budget, putting the money where the political priorities are. at a time of intense pressure on public finances, we must have the right procedures in place to deliver best value for money. the balance between stability and responsiveness in budget planning is critical to effective eu planning, and the commission will return to this in the budget review. mr leinen’s report shows how the treaty will affect the work of parliament, and the report covers very thoroughly the implications for parliament of new policy areas, new powers and new procedures. for example, it underlines the importance of ensuring adequate scrutiny of the union’s external action, and we are certainly open to identifying the appropriate methods to do so. however, these methods can only be agreed once the vice-president and high representative has taken office. on this, as in many of the other issues raised – including comitology and delegated acts – we look forward to more detailed exchanges with parliament on implementing all of the issues raised. let me turn to the report of mrs kaufmann, which explains clearly how the citizens’ initiative can bring a new dimension to democracy in the union. citizens will be able to call on the commission to bring forward new policy initiatives. this is one of the areas where the commission intends to act swiftly once the treaty is in force – also on the basis of consultation – to understand stakeholders’ and citizens’ expectations. the commission’s thinking is very much in line with the recommendations of mrs kaufmann. there are, however, a few areas we should discuss further. we want to strike the right balance between a procedure that is easy for citizens and one that means that initiatives will have legitimacy and weight. for example, on the minimum number of member states, we should also more closely reflect the type of procedure foreseen in the treaty. finally, mr brok’s report covers an area in which both parliament and the commission have made important strides in recent years: relations with national parliaments. this parliament has pioneered the use of inter-parliamentary conferences and has found some very practical ways to build up a real parliamentary network. the commission, as you know, has set up a completely new dialogue mechanism with national parliaments, and this is an area where a lot of progress has been made. since 2006, the commission has sent to parliaments not only consultation papers, but also legislative proposals, inviting them to respond. so far, we have received and replied to around 400 opinions, and we have also massively increased the number of direct contacts, with more than 500 meetings between commissioners and national parliamentary bodies since the commission came into office. so, as the report implies, the treaty’s new provisions on national parliaments will be fully in tune with the trend of recent years, and i think will reinforce the european parliamentary family still further. taken together, these reports illustrate how the treaty of lisbon would deepen european democracy and deliver results to european citizens. that is an excellent message for us to take into the european parliament elections, as well as being an excellent launch pad for preparing for the implementation of the treaty itself.
before i give the floor to the speakers, i shall allow myself a leave of absence which i think is permissible for a person who presides at this time of the legislature and at this time of night, which also has this advantage. i would like to inform you that i intend to forward immediately to the president and the bureau of parliament the proposal for a publication containing the treaty of lisbon itself, the five reports and the corresponding resolutions, and the introductory speeches by the rapporteurs and the commissioner. i believe that a document of this kind, translated into the 23 official languages of the union and distributed to the men and women of the 27 member states, will be a very important document for understanding the importance of the lisbon treaty itself, but also for understanding the efforts and actions of our parliament. it will also be a fitting tribute to the five rapporteurs, and in particular to mrs guy-quint and mrs kaufmann, who have informed us that they are leaving but who will always be present in our memory and in our gratitude.
i shall have the pleasure of giving the floor to my compatriot carlos carnero, who will not be with us in the next legislature either and to whom i would like to publicly thank for the enormous effort and the very remarkable work he has done in the particular area and subject which concerns us here.
opinion of the committee on petitions - thank you, mr president, for your kind words, which obviously move me at a time when i am addressing the house for the last time during this parliamentary term, to thank all those with whom i have had the honour of working and, moreover, to apologize for any mistakes i may have made. i have tried to work with dignity on behalf of the citizens of my country and of all europeans and there have been truly special moments in that effort, such as the convention. in fact, we are talking about citizenship today and i am speaking on behalf of the committee on petitions. what committee is closer to the citizen than the committee on petitions of this parliament, which is the recipient of one of the most important rights of european citizens: the right to petition? the point is this: if the european parliament is known in many countries, it is because it exercises the right of petition. we know that, the members of the committee on petitions and the whole house. the lisbon treaty, which makes the european union more democratic and more effective, introduces new elements - the charter of fundamental rights - and new instruments, such as the citizens' initiative. the question is to avoid confusion, for example, between the right to petition and the right of citizens' initiative. i would remind you that citizens can, for example, ask parliament to address the commission with a petition to initiate a legislative initiative, so that in the future we might find a european citizens' initiative asking the commission to initiate a legislative procedure and a petition, on the basis of the right of petition, addressed to the relevant committee of this house, asking the house to address the commission to that effect. the aim is to avoid this contradiction and to achieve a synergy that strengthens both paths, which are paths that make the union more citizen-friendly. the committee on petitions would certainly like to be involved in the management of this right of citizens' initiative. i am sure that all the committees would like that, but i would ask that this right be exercised in the best possible way. i think it would also be a tribute to a day like today, which is so important: the treaty of lisbon has been ratified by the senate of the czech republic, there is only one more step before that treaty becomes a reality and, in fact, before the treaty which is the heir of the european constitution, which has been the best text produced by the union to date, enters into force. if we succeed, all of us here - starting with all the 'conveners' who have gathered here tonight - will have taken a giant step that will make it worthwhile to be in this parliament.
thank you, mrs esteves, for your intervention, thank you for your work over these years, and good luck and happiness for your future.
you will have noticed, mr lundgren, that your colleagues listened to you with respect, in silence and without speaking, as you did when other colleagues were speaking, but that is the way to understand democracy for one and for the other.
the first item on the agenda is the report by ruth hieronymi, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing an audiovisual cooperation programme with professionals from third countries media mundus (com ((2008) 0892 - c6-0011/2009 - 2008/0258 (cod)) (a6-0260/2009).
mr president, the universal declaration of unesco on cultural diversity recommends, among other things, the promotion of the production of quality audiovisual productions, in particular by encouraging the establishment of cooperation mechanisms to facilitate their dissemination, as the european commission has taken very much into account in preparing this initiative. it is clear that media mundus will take advantage of the growing interest and opportunities offered by global cooperation in the audiovisual industry and will broaden the range of possibilities open to consumers, bringing more culturally diverse products to european and international markets, as well as creating new business opportunities for audiovisual professionals in europe and around the world. i am convinced, and we have no doubt, that the commission will manage the budget perfectly so that it has the greatest possible impact and is not spread over several projects. as one distinguished professor has said, the media mundus programme for audiovisual cooperation with third countries is the proof that the international audiovisual landscape has changed considerably, particularly in the technological field. the aim of this initiative is to develop the possibilities for cooperation in the audiovisual market by promoting research and training, in addition to financing co-production projects, in order to promote cooperation between audiovisual professionals. and i don't want to end without adding to the thanks. it has been a pleasure to have worked these two years on the committee on culture with all my colleagues. thank you, art.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the draft regulation on the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemical substances and preparations (reach), as regards annex xvii thereto, by miroslav ouzký and guido sacconi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0071/2009 - b6-0230/2009).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all apologize to my colleagues, vice-president verheugen and mr dimas, who unfortunately cannot be here this morning to take part in the debate. i know that mr verheugen has had intensive and fruitful contacts with the rapporteur, mr sacconi, whom i would like to thank for his excellent work, even in a personal capacity. the commission fully supports the objective of the human health and environmental professions, by preventing all exposure to asbestos and by working towards a total ban on all uses of asbestos in all its forms. in the european union, the placing on the market, use, export and disposal of asbestos fibres are very strictly regulated. the placing on the market and use of all asbestos fibres has already been completely prohibited by directive 1999/77/ec. as regards other uses, member states may allow the use of a form of chrysotile asbestos in electrolysis plants already in operation in 1999 until they reach the end of their useful life, and the making available of suitable substitutes, free of asbestos. four member states use this derogation. a review in 2006-2007 showed that all workplace exposure limits were being met and that there were no alternatives available at the time for some very specific processes. this existing limitation will be incorporated into annex xvii of the reach regulation and the derogation for diaphragms containing chrysotile will be revised again in 2011. member states will be required to report in june 2011 on their efforts to develop chrysotile-free diaphragms, on the measures taken to protect workers, and on the sources and quantities of chrysotile used. the commission will then ask the european chemicals agency to examine the information submitted with a view to terminating this derogation. directive 87/217/eec on the prevention and reduction of environmental pollution by asbestos provides for measures to control asbestos emissions during certain demolition, decontamination or disposal operations to ensure that these activities do not cause pollution by asbestos fibres or dust. directive 83/477/eec, as amended by directive 2003/18/ec on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work, contains a series of measures to ensure adequate protection of the health of workers when they are exposed to the risks related to exposure to asbestos fibres. companies must provide evidence of their ability to carry out asbestos demolition or removal work. before any asbestos demolition or removal work is carried out, they must draw up a plan specifying the measures necessary to ensure that workers are not exposed to a concentration of asbestos in air above 0,1 asbestos fibre per cm3 during an average working time of eight hours. framework directive 2006/12/ec on waste and directive 1999/31/ec on the landfill of waste, together with the council decision on the criteria for the admission of waste to landfill, require member states to ensure the controlled disposal of asbestos fibres and equipment containing asbestos fibres. member states must ensure that waste is recovered or disposed of without endangering human health and without requiring the use of processes or methods which could harm the environment. there are detailed requirements for the process by which asbestos is to be disposed of and landfilled; for example, the storage area should be covered every day and before each compaction operation. the landfill shall be covered with a final coating to prevent dispersion of the fibres. measures shall be taken to avoid possible use of the land after the closure of the landfill. exports of asbestos fibres are regulated by regulation (ec) no 689/2008 and since 2005 only one case of export of asbestos fibres from the european union to a third country has been reported. in addition, the decisions on asbestos in annex xvii to reach will prohibit the manufacture of asbestos fibres in the european union and, consequently, exports will be excluded. waste containing asbestos is hazardous waste. the basel convention and regulation (ec) no 1013/2006 on shipments of waste prohibit the export of asbestos waste to non-oecd countries. as regards transfers between eu member states and oecd member states, they are subject to a procedure of prior written notification and consent. in conclusion, and in the light of these elements, i can assure you that the commission will consider whether it is appropriate to propose further legislative measures concerning the controlled disposal of asbestos fibres and the decontamination or disposal of equipment containing asbestos fibres, which go beyond the existing legislation, both for waste management and for the protection of workers. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the list of asbestos-containing articles which may be authorised on the second-hand market, it is not yet available respondendo subito alla richiesta dell'onorevole sacconi but the commission plans to review the situation in 2011 in order to establish a harmonised list valid throughout the european union. i hope so that we can satisfy your request.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
thank you very much, mr. bowis. you can be sure that many of us will always remember you and be grateful for your efforts and dedication to the work of the house.
thank you, mr sacconi. you can be sure that you too will be missed for your work and dedication. good luck and much happiness for your future performance, which will certainly follow the line of what you have been doing among us.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before concluding this debate, i too would like to thank mr sacconi and mr bowis, and i do so as their former schoolmate, having sat on the benches of this parliament for so many years. i would like to thank them for the work they have done, and although they sit on different benches, they have done honour to our parliament. so, as a member of parliament and today as a commissioner and vice-president of the commission, i want to thank them for the highly qualified contribution they have made to the work of parliament, proving that it is possible to be - beyond what is sometimes written in certain newspapers - good parliamentarians by being present and really rendering a service to the institutions, which represent half a billion european citizens. i would also like to thank them for this, my last speech as a commissioner in this parliament. i said i wanted to thank mr sacconi, however, also on behalf of the committee on the environment, for putting this particularly important subject on the agenda, and mr bowis' speech and remarks showed how much this subject is felt by all citizens. i think and hope that this debate has helped to dispel all doubts and concerns: the commission will report regularly to parliament on the application of the regulation and, it should be clear, will not compromise on the protection of workers, health and the environment. as regards the comments made by mr ferreira and mr agnoletto, i would like to remind the commission that the european trade union confederation has been consulted and in particular the chemical workers have expressed their support for maintaining the derogation. i would also like to stress that it is not true that there are no time limits, because when a substitute product is available the derogation is abrogated. furthermore, i remind you that the commission will carry out a general review in 2011. i would like to thank you again for your comments and your commitment to such a sensitive subject as the health of workers, but i would say the health of all citizens of the european union.
in order to close the debate, a motion for a resolution has been tabled, pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the following is the report by paolo costa, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eec) no 95/93 on common rules for the allocation of slots at community airports (com ((2009) 0121 c6-0097/2009 - 2009/0042 ((cod)) (a6-0274/2009).
thank you, mr. costa, and congratulations on your good work. his name is associated with a number of important reports and his efforts have therefore also become part of the history of parliament in recent years.
thank you, mr. jarzembowski, and good luck, good fortune and happiness for the next few years and your next activities.
thank you, mr blokland. we wish you luck and happiness in your future activities outside parliament.
thank you, mr romagnoli, and i wish you success in your future activities.
thank you, mr rack. you can be sure that the house will miss you and we wish you all the best from now on.
thank you, gilles. some of the things you have said about the committee also identify you perfectly in your qualities and in the effort you have put into the work of parliament. i'm sure you'll have experiences like this in the future.
thank you, mr fernandes. we hope that the portuguese electorate will appreciate your management as we do and that you will be able to return to your seat.
and happiness for your future, dear colleague.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. for me too, this is the last debate i will be presiding over in this parliament and i want to thank you all. this debate has had a strange aftertaste, with so many colleagues having to be dismissed and wished for good fortune. in any case, my reflection is that it will take a lot of work and a lot of time for the newcomers to match those who are leaving us now. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the rapporteur. - i want to refer, mr president, strictly to an information update, because the text denounced the imprisonment of a sudanese leader who has been released.
the resolution itself states that after two months of heavy fighting, andry rajoelina, the former mayor of the capital of madagascar, staged a coup d'état in that country on 17 march with the support of the army and a self-proclaimed 'transitional high authority' chaired by himself, and suspended the national assembly and the senate. moreover, due to pressure from the rebels, the democratically elected president was forced to leave madagascar. but in turn, last february, mr rajoelina, who in december 2007 had been elected mayor of antananarivo, had been forcibly removed by the previous government. and it should be added that the population's unease was accentuated by a plan of the previous government to lease to a korean company an area of one million acres located in the south of the country. we obviously join in condemning the coup and all attempts to seize power by undemocratic means. we also consider that the un security council and the international organizations of which madagascar is a member do not recognize this de facto regime and call for the restoration of constitutional governance. we also call for the immediate restoration of the legal and constitutional order in the country and urge all malagasy parties to fully comply with the provisions of the constitution of madagascar to resolve this crisis. but we also believe that democracy is not just about holding elections and we must denounce the enormous irregularities in the a priori legitimate government of madagascar. however, we are convinced that the restoration of constitutional order must be based on the objectives and principles already set out in recital k of this resolution, namely: a clear timetable for the holding of free, fair and transparent elections; the participation of all the political and social groups concerned in the country, including the legitimate president marc ravalomanana and other prominent personalities; the production, thirdly, of a consensus among the malagasy parties; respect, fourthly, of the constitution of madagascar; and, fifthly and lastly, compliance with the relevant instruments of the african union and madagascar's international commitments. however, we are once again faced with a situation in which human rights are constantly being violated. while the ruling class of madagascar is vying for power through coups d'état and big, lucrative economic contracts, 70 percent of the population lives on less than a dollar a day. and this, and this alone, is what we have to remedy. we therefore expect the eu to play its proper role in this whole matter. madam president, on a completely different subject and taking advantage of the fact that commissioner orban is in this last session of this legislature, i would like to thank him personally for all his work in his directorate-general.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. i also noted that political persecution, abuse of power by the chavista regime, intimidation of the adversary, threats, contempt for the dignity of persons and the torturous use of justice are commonplace in venezuela, among other things. the case of manuel rosales is the straw that broke the camel's back and gave rise to this resolution, but there are thousands of cases, as bloody as his, that are cited in the resolution and others that are not cited, such as the case of eligio cedeño, who was born in the humble caraqueño neighborhood of petare well known for his dangerousness and because he voted for a mayor who was not of the chavista regime. eligio studied thanks to the help of others and, specifically, citibank; he managed to found his own business the bank of caracas and then lived in a normal way and helping those most in need. today, however, he is illegally imprisoned in a caracan prison, after two years of being detained without any coherent charges. your only crime has been to be part of the economic oligarchy. another case is that of nixon moreno, student leader of the university of the andes, elected several times to the university council and president of the federation of university centers. he won the 2003 elections to the federation against the current minister of the interior and justice, and this is his crime. today he is charged with frustrated murder and violent lewd acts, all of which he has been cleared of. situations like yours are a part of daily life in this country, where the persecution of the adversary with the aim of excluding him from political life and discouraging dissent has become a part of everyday life. however, from here we must send a message of hope to venezuelan democracy: despite the difficulties, i am sure that democracy will prevail and president chávez will be deposed at the polls.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, we have all followed with great interest and appreciation the programme of the swedish presidency, which has a clear economic and energy priority, because the priority of the european union is to contribute to the relaunch of the economy and the creation of jobs, to curb unemployment and to make the copenhagen meeting in december 2009 a success. but i would like to draw attention to a political, civic and democratic objective, which is the replacement of the hague programme by the programme which will bear the name of the swedish capital, stockholm. the programme summarises the achievements of the area of freedom, security and justice over the past five years, which have been very remarkable in terms of harmonisation, mutual recognition and strengthening of the principle of trust in the area of fundamental rights and judicial protection, but also in active cooperation. in this area, i would urge you to be ambitious: firstly, from a substantive point of view, because everything relating to the management of the external border, immigration, asylum, refuge and the fight against illicit trafficking, organised crime and terrorism lends itself easily to deviation towards reactionary positions which contradict the acquis of fundamental rights which should distinguish the european union and with which sweden, which is so respectful of transparency and democratic principles, identifies itself. secondly, i would ask you to be ambitious, also in terms of form, because the swedish presidency will probably make way for lisbon, which means, firstly, that the double framework, often confused, between the third and first pillars will disappear, but also, and above all, that parliament will be strengthened in the follow-up of the legislative initiatives that the swedish presidency will put in place in the stockholm programme. and that means that what has been pointed out so many times in the 'debate' in brussels or in the council will now also be the responsibility of this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have come to speak about iran and i would also like to express my condolences to the victims of the air crash which occurred this morning. ladies and gentlemen, i share many of the views already expressed on the situation in iran after the electoral process: an electoral process that is neither free nor fair, which has allowed president ahmadinejad and the most radical sections of the regime to remain in power; a power that violently represses protesters, that impedes the work of journalists and that seeks to blame internal disorders on an alleged external conspiracy; a power that also uses disinformation to mask the truth. now, the truth is that the iranian regime has suffered a serious deterioration both internally and in its own external image. moreover, the oligarchy that has enjoyed power over the past decades is now divided, which will affect the stability of the regime. at the same time, public discontent will continue to grow, particularly if oil prices do not rise again and the economic situation does not improve. the european union must remain united and continue to condemn the abuses committed in iran. it should demand a more respectful attitude towards human rights, and it should also consider how civil society can be helped, particularly those sectors that want democratic pluralism and respect for human rights in their country. we should not disappoint those sectors which are looking to the west, including the european union. but we cannot forget the threat posed by iran's nuclear programme, which has a destabilising effect on the region and on the general non-proliferation regime. it is essential that the european union and the united states continue to cooperate on this matter, and i am sure that this will be a priority for the swedish presidency. russia and china, permanent members of the security council, must be fully incorporated. their support is needed to find a negotiated solution to this grave threat, which requires unity and firmness on the part of the international community. i therefore welcome the resolution adopted on this subject last week at the g8. ladies and gentlemen, the events of the last few weeks have laid bare the extremism and the radical character of the current iranian leadership; it is clear that the international community cannot allow them to acquire nuclear weapons.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, i was going to begin my first speech in this house by congratulating myself on the fact that the debate on the situation in iran was not provoked by the media prominence of iran, which has been replaced successively by china, honduras, the g20, etc. unfortunately, the recent executions of sunni militants in iran have brought the country and human rights violations back to the front page of newspapers. but i believe that it should not be the media news that should inspire parliament's foreign policy agenda, but the responsibility of this institution and its serious and coherent response, commensurate with the growing role it has to play in the european union's foreign policy, especially in the field of human rights. and that role, mr president, involves monitoring the consistent use of all the instruments available to the european union in this area, and in the case of iran we must not separate the nuclear dialogue into watertight compartments and the total absence of political dialogue on human rights. the structured dialogue on human rights has been suspended since 2004. we have no cooperation and trade agreement to which we can attach a democratic clause, we have not been able to send an election observation mission and the funds for the financial instrument for democracy and human rights are very small. we must be more efficient in the use of the instruments at our disposal and those we have given ourselves, both in this parliament and in the european union as a whole. some in this parliament and in the iranian opposition have called for a complete break with the iranian regime and for non-recognition of the new government. we strongly condemn the political repression and the stifling of freedom of expression in iran, but we do not believe that we should give up being a power in the defence and protection of human rights, democracy and the fight against poverty in the world, and for that, mr president, we need dialogue, negotiation, the pursuit of common interests, diplomacy and the building of an alliance of civilizations. i would like to make an appeal to the council presidency to do so.
mr president, in the past few weeks we have witnessed with great emotion the repeated demonstrations of heroism and courage by the people of iran, who have faced the machine guns and clubs of their executioners with their bare hands. the abundant presence of women at the head of the demonstration is an unequivocal sign of the determined will of iranians to live in true democracy. mr president of the council, the european union's response has been too weak, too cowardly. we must send a very strong political signal that shows our absolute rejection of this intolerable theocratic dictatorship. the solution has been well outlined by the leader of the resistance in exile, massud rajavi: the supreme leader must be deposed and a temporary assembly of experts must call for free elections under international supervision. anything less is a waste of time and a prolongation of this embarrassment.
mr president, i begin by condemning, of course, the events in iran and the repression by the iranian government, but i am speaking to reinforce the position of those who have advocated that we combine the pressure of the european institutions with the maintenance of dialogue, with the maintenance of the negotiating processes. history and experience show that the severance of all relations with authoritarian regimes does not improve the living conditions of the citizens who suffer under those regimes and, at the same time, weakens the position of those of us who defend respect for democracy and human rights in those countries. i therefore believe that we must use all the instruments of pressure at the disposal of the european union, starting with this parliament, against the iranian regime, but at the same time also maintain negotiation, dialogue, pressure dialogue, especially through the high representative, mr solana.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i think this debate has really reflected the complexities of the issues that we face. what has been addressed here are issues ranging from the different system that china has and the evolution of that particular system, the importance that we attach to human rights and the need to help china develop in the direction of a more open society, better respecting those human rights, as well as the problems attached to minority rights, problems that are there in china. but china is unfortunately not unique in the world in facing these issues and the violence, the ethnic violence, that has been seen in the last few days on the streets of urumqi. ethnic violence is always evil. it should be condemned and we can only support those who try to bring reconciliation in this particular situation based on respect for human rights, knowing from our own history the complexity of those issues. mr bütikofer referred to the concept of a harmonious society. we all want to develop and live in harmonious societies and clearly we need to see what we can do in order to help china develop in the direction of a society that is seen as harmonious by each and every one of the citizens of china. they are not there yet. few societies as a matter of fact are, but it has been fairly obvious. otherwise let me note that in the initial statements from mr brok, mr severin and mr watson, i found lots of wisdom that could guide our further deliberations as we move on with the important relationship that we seek with china, understanding the complexity of that relationship in all its dimensions.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the situation in honduras.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the world is a big place. i am grateful for this opportunity to focus somewhat on the situation in honduras and the seriousness of the developments that we see there, not only for honduras but for the entire region. i will try to be reasonably brief. since the beginning of this particular crisis last month, the presidency has condemned the military action that was directed against president zelaya, who was democratically elected, in spite of everything else that can be said. that action was in violation of the constitutional order of honduras. we have called for the restoration of this constitutional order, in full, and urged all parties and institutions to refrain from violence or talks about violence and to strive to find a swift and peaceful solution. i think in much the same way as we expect, when we have problems in different parts of europe, that it is the european union that should take the lead and we would hope that the rest of the world would support our efforts, our policy has now been guided by giving support to the organisation of american states in their efforts to find a solution through dialogue and compromise to the problems that they are facing. we have a situation where none of our ambassadors at the moment are present in honduras. we do not have any diplomatic contacts at the moment either. we very much welcome the recent effort by costa rican president oscar arias, winner of the nobel peace prize, to try to reconcile the differences that exist. so far that has proved to be – hardly surprising, one might say – a somewhat difficult enterprise. but i am encouraged by the news that there will be new meetings under the chairmanship of president arias this saturday. we can only encourage him to move forward with those efforts and we can only continue to urge both sides to be ready to compromise, fully respecting every part of the constitution of honduras. let me conclude by underlining the importance that we attach, beyond the immediate crisis, to the holding of fair, timely and transparent presidential elections in honduras later this year. the rule of law and respect for human rights must remain the cornerstone of democratic government throughout the world; central america, latin america, all of america are certainly not excluded.
member of the commission. − mr president, again i am pleased to contribute briefly to this debate on behalf of my colleague, benita ferrero-waldner, as we look at the political crisis in honduras. after many years, latin america is again experiencing an institutional rupture. the crisis in honduras shows us how fragile is the rule of law and the institutional framework for the resolution of conflicts in some latin american countries and, indeed, how these countries can plunge into crisis, especially now that they are going through a period of strong political polarisation. the commission reacted promptly. we expressed our deep concern about the events in honduras and we stressed the great importance we attach to the respect for the rule of law, democracy and democratically elected institutions. we have urged all parties involved to resolve their differences peacefully in full respect of the country’s legal framework and to promptly engage in a dialogue in the interests of peace and stability in the country. we deplored the violent confrontations, even more so as they have resulted in the loss of human lives, and we called upon all parties involved to show the utmost moderation and restraint. the commission declared it would be ready to support all initiatives aimed at a peaceful solution of the crisis and at restoring the constitutional order. as the presidency has said, we supported the initiative by the organisation of american states and its secretary-general, mr insulza, which unfortunately did not bear fruit. we strongly welcomed the mediation efforts of the costa rican president and trust that they will result in a peaceful settlement of the crisis. following the events in honduras and after consulting the central american governments and eu member states, it was decided to postpone the next round of negotiations with a view to an association agreement with central america, negotiations that were due between 6 and 10 july in brussels. but we trust that these negotiations can resume as soon as possible. again, as the presidency has said, in response to the gravity of the situation the local ambassador of the eu presidency has been recalled for consultations and all other eu ambassadors have also left the country. in close cooperation with the presidency and the member states, we continue to explore the ways in which we can best contribute to the solution of this crisis. for the time being, suspending our cooperation has not been decided, but disbursement of our financial commitments related to budgetary support has been put on hold. we are very much aware that the events in honduras could create a dangerous precedent, a step back in terms of democracy, and could destabilise the region. therefore, we continue to follow the situation closely and we support all efforts to find a peaceful solution. we will continue to keep parliament informed about any further development.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the fact that a constitutional president is taken from his residence manu militari, put on an airplane and deposited in a foreign state is something which, from a democratic perspective, must be condemned in the strongest terms. on the basis of this premise, mr president, it must be said that it is very significant, in any case, that the most conspicuous defenders of the deposed president celaya - who, incidentally, has aroused the unanimity of the different political parties, including his own, and of the supreme court of justice against the congress of the republic - have been, precisely, representatives of regimes that have been characterized by a systematic violation of human rights and by a progressive curtailment of individual freedoms, as this parliament has recognized in the last report on the situation of human rights in the world. now we have to get out of this situation. the president-in-office of the council has said it: the european union must facilitate a return to democratic normality by supporting the efforts of a person who has worked to consolidate the situation in the region, president óscar arias of costa rica. secondly, the european union must make available to the country all its experience in electoral observation and mobilize the deployment of an eu election observation mission in view of the forthcoming presidential elections. finally, mr president-in-office of the council, it is important that the european union behaves in a consistent manner, without double standards. it is not acceptable that the european union should, on the one hand, facilitate and intensify political dialogue with the only non-democratic country in the region and, on the other, make the citizens of one of the poorest countries in latin america pay for the mistakes of their rulers, to whom mr celaya is not exactly a stranger. and i believe, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, that the european union, as mr bildt has said, must have an active presence in the region. and that active presence is now being substantiated in the negotiation of the association agreement which is about to be concluded. we cannot, mr president, make the just pay for the wicked, and in that sense i think we should reconsider a rapid return to the negotiating table after the conflict has been resolved.
on behalf of the s&d group. we are united in condemning the situation, mr president, not only because of the seriousness of the situation itself, the breakdown of the constitutional order, as the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner have stressed, but also because of the very serious precedent it sets in a region which, with much work and effort, has managed to restore democracy throughout the continent, with few exceptions. so, you can't go through there. the european union and its member states have done well in withdrawing their ambassadors, in cancelling all cooperation, in suspending negotiations with the region. now we must support - in agreement with the president-in-office of the council and the president of the commission - a dialogue with the social democrat president of costa rica, oscar arias, nobel peace prize winner, in the front, and not incite to violence, neither repressive nor insurrectionary. this is not the time to analyse - we are not on that issue - the real or supposed mistakes that president zelaya may have made, with six months left in his term. it is time to analyze the very serious breakdown of the constitutional order in honduras by the armed forces (with the support of congress and the judiciary, yes, but in an absolutely illegitimate and illegal way). time will be needed to analyse what its future will be, but now we must demand, without the slightest hesitation, the return of president zelaya, constitutional president of the country until january 2010.
on behalf of the alde group. (short words in basque). mr president, i am using basque, a minority language which is not yet official in this house: basque. i hope that in the future it will be the same as other languages and that we can therefore speak in my mother tongue and in the language of euskadi. having said that, i share - and my group shares - the need to reject head-on the coup d'état - we must call it by its proper name - which is what has happened in honduras. perhaps some will say that it was a mistake - and we shall not go into that - to have tried, perhaps above all, to consult the will of the citizens. both the commission and the council agree that they must work to restore the constitutional and institutional order that has been overthrown and to bring back the honduran president, who was legitimately elected by all the citizens. i also share the concern about the attacks on some members of the government, including those on the diplomatic missions accredited to honduras, which, as we have heard, have been withdrawn. and of course my group also supports, as did the commission representative, all the actions undertaken by the organization of american states to deal with and resolve this conflict. my group wishes to express the need for us to make a real contribution from europe to the strengthening of democracy in honduras, to the implementation of fundamental rights and, therefore, to the political dialogue as the only instrument that can make progress towards the solution of the problem we are currently facing. of course, we also support the work being done by mr oscar arias, the nobel peace prize winner, and therefore we also hope that, following the measures mentioned above, the elections in november 2009 will be able to take place and be held in full transparency, with full respect for the democratic system and human rights. and i hope that the present situation will also allow negotiations to continue in order to reach an agreement with the european union.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i too would like to take this opportunity to condemn in the strongest possible terms and express our dismay at the recent events in honduras. i have had the opportunity to follow the situation in the country and the region in recent years, precisely in my capacity as vice-president of the delegation for relations with the countries of central america, and it is particularly significant and very important to me that on the first day of the political debate in this house we are dealing with this subject. it shows that this is a fundamental issue; it is the sad and regrettable honor of being considered the first coup d'état in a central american country in the 21st century, and this is something we must not forget. i therefore not only strongly condemn the coup d'état against president zelaya, but i also urge the european union not to recognize the coup leader micheletti. and i think it is imperative that the european union should insist, as it is doing, on the restoration of constitutional order. it is essential to think seriously, responsibly and credibly about the preparations for the elections in november 2009 and for that reason i also welcome the fact that, at least for the time being, relations are being frozen for an association agreement with the region. i also ask, in any case, that, as other actors, the world bank and the united states have done, aid be frozen also in terms of commercial support, with the exception of humanitarian aid in any case. beyond these measures, i think it is important to remember the need to carry out a clear, concise investigation into the responsibilities that have been involved in this coup d'état. it is clear that there are many responsibilities and it is clear that behind this coup there are many other actors and that in some cases we do not even know their names. i believe that the european union should encourage such an inquiry and that this also requires a constant, present, sending of international delegations to support the movements that are currently in the country, to be able to demand, to claim, to request that democracy that has been taken away from them.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens. and i was able to see in tegucigalpa the consequences of any military coup, that is: repression, lack of freedoms, colleagues in the legislature who did not support the coup exposed to search and capture operations, social organizations with their leaders imprisoned and hospitals taking advantage of the curfew, with many injured. this is the x-ray i was able to observe. i welcome the council's and the european commission's response; it is the only possible response. first, follow all the directives of the organization of american states. i would like to announce that in the interview i had with the secretary of the organization of american states, i found that the organization is very clear: any act carried out by this illegitimate government of the coup leader micheletti will be declared null and void and, therefore, the oas has already decided that it will not observe any kind of election called by this government. i hope that the european union will also have this code of conduct, this road map, so that any action taken by this government will not be considered legitimate. we cannot therefore have an election rigged by a coup government in these conditions. i think this week is going to be a defining week. president celaya, the only president of honduras, has made it very clear: he has made it very clear that he has one week to return and that if within a week there is no solution - from the point of view of the dialogue in costa rica - to his return, he will return. i therefore hope that this parliament, the institutions, the council and the commission will support this decision, as the oas is doing, as the united nations is doing and, by the way, as the united states is doing. i therefore believe it is very important that this tone, the tone of demand for the restoration of constitutional power, for the restoration of president celaya, should be a hallmark of this parliament. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will be firmly resolved to condemn the coup d'état and support the return of president celaya, and i hope that we will support all the initiatives of the international bodies.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i think all of those who have spoken have spoken very much in strong terms in favour of the defence of democracy and constitutional order throughout latin america. in that, of course, there is a condemnation of what happened. whatever the background, we do not send in the military to arrest the elected president of a country and send him abroad. irrespective of the background, we must be very clear on this; we are very clear on this. but then, in order to resolve the situation, there must be some sort of accommodation, some sort of compromise. judging from what i have heard from mr salafranca and others, everyone agrees that president arias is probably the man best suited to achieve that particular compromise. he will probably have to spend quite some time in negotiating with representatives of both the parties but i think it is important that he has our support as well as the support of the other american states for these particular efforts. as to the nature of the particular solution, that is for him to judge and for them to agree. but clearly, on the basis of what i said initially, the restoration of constitutional order is what we seek. the return of president zelaya is a necessity when it comes to the restoration of constitutional order. it is probably not sufficient and in all probability there are going to be other elements in bringing about a full restoration of constitutional order. so what we are calling for in the form of the restoration and return of president zelaya is a necessary but in all probability not sufficient part of the restoration of constitutional order, which is of key importance for our relationship with honduras, for the development of honduras and for the credibility of constitutional order and democracy in that part of the world.
the debate is closed.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
(following mrs harms's intervention, see point 4.1) yes, mrs harms, i did. on the matter you have just mentioned, i must inform the house that president buzek has made a public statement, which i am going to read to you.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 9.15 a.m.)
mr president, in the last week, three basque tuna vessels from bermuda have been threatened again by somali pirates. we are concerned about the recurrence of attacks on fishing vessels in the area, the insecurity and inaction felt by the victims on the part of the spanish government; attacks which may worsen with the arrival of the monsoon, as fishermen are denouncing. that is why, before it is too late, i want to say to this house that we need armed military escorts on those ships, and urgently. european governments, like france and italy, have done this, and it has worked. the commission should therefore recommend to all member states immediate and effective measures such as this. it is urgent to extend to fishing areas the protection criteria already established for merchant shipping routes. this house has a problem, and it denounced it in the resolution on piracy on 23 october. finally, i would reiterate our conviction that europe needs a common foreign and security policy which makes the european institutions more effective and credible in the face of this type of crisis.
mr president, this summer the terrorist group eta murdered three people in spain, three defenders of law and freedom, a national policeman and two civil guards, whose families i extend my solidarity, support and affection. eta is a criminal gang that has no place in europe, because the european union is full of radicalism, totalitarianism and terrorist murderers. for all these reasons, the european parliament and all the european institutions must continue to condemn the eta terrorists and must continue to work to eradicate and eradicate from our continent the cancer which the terrorist murderers of eta and their accomplices represent for us. i therefore want my first speech to be this, at this first ordinary plenary session of the european parliament in this legislature, to remember and pay tribute to all the victims of eta terrorism, to condemn from this house the terrorist organisation eta and to ask that we all europeans work together to exterminate eta and its acolytes, with the law in hand, for the good of the basque country, spain and europe.
mr president, mr langen has said that the commission's study on opel must be completed within a reasonable time. mr langen, how long do you think is a reasonable time frame?
madam president, first of all i would like to express the european parliament's solidarity and support for the workers of all opel plants in europe, and in particular those at the figueruelas plant; for the workers and their families, and for those who depend on them in the subsidiary companies, and to assure them that we are with them in this new adventure which is now beginning with the creation of an independent european producer, gm europe. but if this adventure, which began with the bad news of the bankruptcy of gm in the united states, is to be an opportunity to build a solvent, modern, competitive company with a clear future in social, economic and technological terms, the commission, and you, commissioners, must take the lead in the current negotiations to obtain a truly european solution with all the guarantees. we have been denouncing the absence of the commission in the preambles, the abandonment of the commission in favour of bilateral negotiations, in which each member state with opel plants appealed to unilateral solutions. in this respect, it is worth noting that there have even been regional governments, such as mine, the one in aragon, which was the first to propose, a year ago, a guarantee for the figueruelas plant. but this drift, due to the commission's abandonment of its responsibilities, has led to the present situation of confusion and a serious risk that electoral contingencies, outside the criteria of industrial viability, will lead the new european enterprise to a dead end, in which the criteria of competitiveness do not prevail and a high cost of jobs is not avoided. to avoid this, we need a european solution, economically viable now and in the medium and long term, and in which employment is given priority in the form of competitiveness and productivity of emblematic plants such as figueruelas. we will not allow the commission to remain neutral for one second longer. it must act and secure both the jobs and the future of gm europe. parliament will demand this on behalf of all the workers of opel europe.
madam president, i thank the commissioners for their explanations. i am concerned, in this whole debate, about the link being made between the elections in germany and the situation of this company, which is affecting many plants in europe. i shall stick to three aspects mentioned by the commissioner. i believe that this situation requires complete and absolute transparency of all the work that is being done. i agree that all aspects must be controlled, both from the legal and the aid point of view. but the commissioner has said that she sees restructuring as inevitable, with job losses and plant closures. in view of this, which i believe is due to the business model that has been proposed so far and the level of greed we have at european level, i think that in view of this future, it is necessary, first of all, to think about people; and to think and implement, from the commission as well, innovative policies for people, so that they can be protected, guaranteed the possibilities of living with dignity and given homogeneous training in all european countries to adapt to the labour market of the future and the requirements of new enterprises. and secondly, as regards aid to companies, i would say that it must be aid to make the plants that remain viable. and with an undeniable commitment to innovation, especially by betting - as other members have already mentioned - on hybrid technologies, so that the automobile is not dependent on fossil fuels alone. this is what we are asking the commission to do in the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, members of the commission, when the future of opel europe was discussed in the house, the purchase of the company by magna and its russian partner sberbank last thursday was still unknown. after months of uncertainty, a new stage has opened up for opel europe, one of hope for some and one of concern for others. we hope that the terms of the final contract, which will be signed in the coming months, will be positive for the future of the company, and i hope that the german government is right in considering this the most reliable offer for the survival of the company. but as a member of the employment committee and as an aragonese, on whose territory the figueruelas factory is located, which is currently one of the most productive plants, i have to express my concern about the fate of the workers. it is said that the restructuring plan for magna envisages the dismissal of 10 560 workers - currently 1 700 at the aragon plant - to which many indirect redundancies will have to be added. we are aware that to save the company, a deep restructuring is necessary, and that this restructuring will affect our workers, but we hope that this plan will be made with economic and productive criteria, trying to reach the best solution for all. we hope that in the coming months the governments of the countries concerned will get involved along with europe. this will ensure that, by using economic criteria, we all support opel's viability with the lowest labour costs of all european plants.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, thank you very much for your explanations. i think there must be a community policy on preventing fires in the first place, and we have seen this happening all summer. i would also like to say that i wanted to start by remembering the four firefighters who died last june in horta de sant joan, tarragona, and by giving a hug to their families and colleagues. a policy of prevention is necessary, but so is a policy of coordination. we must not forget that many of the fires that have occurred are suspected of being caused by speculative politics and urban planning. i therefore believe that it is necessary, also at european level, to work for safety by investigating and standardizing penalties for environmental crimes. and we would have to consider the possibility of pursuing them by a euro-order. the resources must be devoted to professionals so that they can also develop innovative mechanisms to measure weather, wind and temperature, so that they can work in the necessary conditions, because, in the end, they are protecting us all.
madam president, commissioner, it is true that progress has been made in recent times, but despite all that progress, the south of the union is burning and burning more and more. the resolution adopted by this parliament cannot therefore be anything more than a resolution to show the great concern we have for the misfortunes of others. forest fires occur for one reason or another, but no one can deny that they are fuelled by climate change. and whatever responsibilities there may be in some states or autonomous communities, the fact is that this parliament must clearly call on the commission to act swiftly and to put all the resources at its disposal, which are not few, at its disposal. neither the victims, nor the damage suffered, nor the need for reforestation understand bureaucracy, nor can it understand budgetary shortcomings. we must prioritize and act; and to act is, in this case, to change strategies, to mobilize resources, to increase them and to optimally crown preventive policies, demanding, where appropriate, responsibilities from the states which lack them, but assuming that this is not a problem of a few states in southern europe and that climate change does not affect only a few states, it affects everyone and is a common cause. that is why one of the main tasks of this parliament is to ensure that the european union at the next copenhagen summit makes clear and firm commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as much as possible, because they are obviously at the root of fires, of their causes and these, in turn, of the causes of more climate change. so, with this resolution passed, it is now the challenge of this parliament, without a doubt. but the commission's challenge must be met if the commissioner really wants to prevent the south of the union, which does exist, from continuing to burn.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, in this first plenary session of the legislature we have to deal with this sad and traditional subject: natural disasters and, in particular, fires. we again deplore the proliferation of fires this summer of 2009, which have caused human losses. twenty lives have been lost, all of them in my country. so, my first memory and utmost solidarity with the human suffering caused by these catastrophes. i would like to stress the disastrous impact of this type of catastrophe on the lives of the people affected, on their economy, employment, natural and cultural heritage, the environment and tourism. in my region 22 000 hectares have been burned this summer, half of them in areas protected for their environmental interest. we must respond to these problems without hesitation; the citizens demand it of us. the european institutions cannot, for another year, be unable to find a suitable solution for those affected. we must be able to help the victims and lay the foundations for the speedy recovery of the affected areas. we must continue to work intensively in the field of prevention, by deepening the development of the european civil protection service. i would like to make a twofold appeal to the european commission to analyse the situation and take appropriate measures to compensate for the social costs of the loss of jobs and sources of income for the inhabitants of the regions concerned. my second appeal is to the spanish government, which will be holding the presidency of the council from january 2010. the spanish government must be able to convey its sensitivity and concern to its counterparts. i think it is imperative that he should include among the priority issues on his agenda the unblocking of the reform of the european solidarity fund. the spanish presidency must also make a clear and decisive commitment to the development of a common european strategy; it must review the prevention measures and forest management models that favour large fires.
mr president, first of all i would also like to express our solidarity and affection for the victims and their families, because every summer we have to lament this situation. it is therefore increasingly important that europe finally has an effective instrument. and we think that perhaps, perhaps because i am, say, in the transport sector and i am an expert on road safety, perhaps we should come up with something like the road safety action plan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and also, i think it's a fundamental element, awareness, a culture of prevention. we're getting it little by little in road safety, why not in that fire safety. we are certainly glad that coordination and solidarity have improved, and i believe that the spanish government, by sending the necessary planes, has also been part of this set of measures to raise awareness among the south, but also between the north and the south. and we are glad that the pilot project on the tactical reserve of firefighting aircraft can become tomorrow, really, an intervention force, which i do think is important. but we still have rules stuck in the council, such as the solidarity fund and also the legislation on soil protection, which we think would be enormously useful.
mr president, mr commissioner, a fire is always a tragedy, a tragedy from the point of view of people, from the point of view of the environment, from the economic and social point of view. i had the misfortune to witness this tragedy very closely, in the fire this summer on the island of la palma in the canary islands. i am therefore very happy and confident that we will be able to adopt this resolution unanimously. a resolution which is a complete resolution, which has had many contributions and, above all, which does something which is important. firstly, it commemorates the victims, all the victims, and it also pays tribute to all those who work voluntarily in the extinction effort. but it also makes an important point about the role of drought and desertification in the spread of fires, as well as the disappearance, of course, of hundreds of thousands of hectares a year. it also makes an important point about the causes that aggravate the phenomenon of fires, such as the progressive abandonment of the fields, the very poor maintenance of the forests and also the inadequate punishment of the arsonists. we must act in this respect, and we must act decisively. the commission must draw up a risk prevention strategy; it must draw up an effective strategy to combat natural disasters, as well as a protocol for uniform action. but aid is also important; aid is important for rehabilitation, for restoring productive potential and for compensating for social costs and job losses. and coordination is essential, as the commissioner has said. but coordination between the various community instruments is important: the structural funds, the solidarity fund - which clearly needs reform - and its flexibility, and also instruments such as aid plus and, of course, that rapid response mechanism we have also mentioned. we must look more closely at the solution of these problems and i sincerely believe that this motion for a resolution is the right way to do so.
mr president, commissioner dimas, i am a first-time mep - i was elected on 7 june - but it is clear from the debate that this issue comes up again every september after the wave of devastating fires that particularly hit southern europe: italy, france, greece and spain. the devastating fire on the island of la palma, in the outermost region of the canary islands, the spanish autonomous community in which i was born and where i live, has been mentioned. but the important thing is that we should be aware that, although it is particularly intense on that southern border of europe, here we have an opportunity for us to strengthen the affection and the link of citizens with what europe means. value added in the answer. the european added value in prevention and the european added value in coordination between the institutions: commission, council, also the european parliament with the resolution, in cooperation with the member states. but there is also a european added value in the response. that is why it is important that we move from debate to action, by making the management of the solidarity fund more flexible in the face of emergencies, and that we put into action that still pending european civil protection force, which is what can really make a difference in the future when we face these emergencies that recur every summer as a result of climate change and global warming.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission in its role as the eu’s representative in the g20, together with the presidency, strongly advocates increased support to low-income countries, particularly the poorest, as one of the critical priorities of the g20 commitments. in this regard it is important that low-income countries receive appropriate funding to meet the needs emerging especially from the backlash of the financial crisis. that is why we advocate the need to enhance access by poor and fragile countries, often without institutional administrative capacities, to the facilities and credits made available by the international financial institutions and other donors. personally i will defend this approach at the november development affairs council, and the global financial crisis will be at the centre of my political concerns during the weeks ahead. i hope i can count on your support throughout. in this context our ‘vulnerability flex’ instrument is of particular relevance. the commission has worked with the world bank and the imf to identify the most crisis-vulnerable countries and to complement the loan-based assistance provided by these two institutions with timely and targeted grant aid under the vulnerability flex. between 2009 and 2010, up to eur 500 million will be spent on those acp countries requesting assistance to ensure priority public spending, including in the social sectors. let me reassure you that the frontloading of budget support through the vulnerability flex mechanism will not lead to a funding gap insofar as the commission is using non-earmarked reserves. countries not eligible under the vulnerability flex will also benefit from other measures proposed by the commission in its april communication, for example reallocations following ad hoc country reviews and the advanced mid-term review, support under the traditional flex, frontloading where feasible etc.concerning the targeting of the budget support, i am convinced that the flexibility inherent in this instrument already allows recipient countries to use the funds in the manner which they judge will best help them respond to economic and social problems. in addition, the advanced mid-term review of the 10th edf will provide a good opportunity to identify new needs and assess whether these would be better addressed through general or sectoral budget support. the advanced medium-term review will also provide an additional opportunity to look again at budget support profiles in each acp country and consider amendments, reallocation or additional funds from the reserve. concerning the reform of the bretton woods institutions, our role in promoting their reform is, of course, limited. the issue of voice and representation will be discussed at the imf world bank annual meetings in istanbul, which commissioner almunia and i will attend this october. in this respect we welcome the addition of a third seat for sub-saharan african countries on the world bank’s board of governors, and are looking with interest at proposals on the table for further reforms. concerning illicit financial flows, i would like to reassure mrs joly that i have already given instructions to the commission services to explore ways of improving fiscal and financial governance in developing countries in order to curb illicit financial flows. this crisis has also shown that we have to strengthen the mechanisms for delivering oda. the international aid effectiveness agenda embodied in the paris declaration and the accra agenda for action is now more important than ever. in these difficult economic times we have a particular responsibility towards the world’s poor to make sure our development assistance is being channelled effectively. in its 8 april communication, the commission also underlined the useful contribution of innovative funding mechanisms as a complementary and mutually reinforcing instrument with oda. we have urged member states to use their full tool-kit and to leverage non-oda with oda, for example by building on ongoing voluntary solidarity levies such as the airline ticket taxes to finance health programmes. there will be high-level discussions on this subject, including a major conference in 2010 organised by the french, which will involve the commission upstream.
on behalf of the s-d group. mr president, commissioner, today marks exactly one year since the bankruptcy of the financial institution lehman brothers. so, according to experts, we were on the verge of a financial collapse and we were on the verge of another great depression. the financial crisis intensified and spread to the real economy and we have lived through a period in which we have had negative economic growth, and we have also had job destruction. but the developed countries are beginning to overcome the crisis. france and germany have done so, for example, and the commission has just today presented its economic forecasts, which show that the european union will emerge from recession in the second half of the year. however, the least developed countries are in crisis and will remain in crisis for a long time. they have not caused the crisis, but they are suffering, more than anyone, the consequences of it. they are suffering with less growth, more unemployment, more unemployment, less direct investment, less foreign credit, less remittances from migrants, less official development assistance and, nevertheless, more trade restrictions. we have had a period of decline in our stability, in our well-being for a limited time, but they risk a lost decade in the fight against poverty, and a decade is a whole lost generation. we can do a lot for them in many ways, and i want to make a specific point about our opposition to protectionism. the commission has just presented its fourth report on restrictive trade measures last week, which shows that many countries are adopting new restrictive measures and this is disastrous for developing countries. in addition, many developed countries will not honour their commitments to official development assistance, at a time when we need new resources more than ever to deal with the gravity of the crisis. i therefore propose that we increase the coordination of this development aid with a wider agreement between donor countries, financial institutions and partners and with more efficient and transparent management that does not generate costs and is free from bureaucratic burden. i encourage the commission, i encourage the commissioner, to carry out the project he has put before us, which i am sure mr almunia will also share.
i share and support the interest and emphasis of both the presidency and the commission in pointing out that this is one of the most striking dimensions of globalisation which is demanding a european response. where europe can make sense, by adding value to the management of one of the most unmistakable dimensions of globalisation, namely the unprecedented dimension that migration has acquired, and therefore migratory flows, and their impact on all the orders that matter to the construction of europe. it is impossible for any member state to tackle this problem within its means, and a common policy is therefore imperative, which is not yet in place. and all that has been done, in the meantime, is to bring about a common policy which should be enshrined in the european constitution, which should be enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, and which has not yet been achieved. all that has been done is a precursor to what must be done and is still in its infancy. but what is clear is that the response must be consistent with european identity. the first point is therefore a commitment to correcting inequality at the source by strengthening development cooperation. secondly, we must step up the fight against the politicalcriminal dimension of the phenomenon, by also attacking those organisations which traffic in people, but also by raising awareness of the risks of irregular immigration and illicit trafficking, training at home and illegal recruitment, which is the answer through legal migration as an alternative to illegal immigration. finally, a serious commitment to human rights. this means the asylum and refuge dimension and the implementation of the european pact on immigration and asylum, which was signed in october 2008. but in the meantime, we must strengthen the european external border, its control and its common responsibility. the impact of illegal immigration in italy, or in spain, or in greece - as we have known in spain, across the southern mediterranean border, and also in the canary islands, with the cayucos arriving with desperate people - is not a spanish or italian issue. it is a european matter, which requires not solidarity with spain or italy, much less trust that spain and italy will follow the european model in their bilateral relations with african countries. it is a common responsibility, which requires a common response. and that is why we in the libe committee have supported the strengthening of frontex, also in its budgetary allocation, which we hope will be supported in this house, because we support the emphasis and importance that the swedish presidency is giving to this matter.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, we have a good opportunity to reconsider our immigration policy. an immigration policy that is based on blatant hypocrisy and cynicism. we have even said that the european project would be impossible without migrant workers, but on the other hand we have criminalised migrant workers with legislation such as the return directive, the so-called 'shame directive', which is not in keeping with the principles and values of the european union. the policy of trying to strengthen europe in this crisis, this triple food, financial and energy crisis, is not understood; it is not understood by everyone, because we are indeed doing wrong, in the wrong direction. if europe is necessary, and if europe is necessary because of the migrant worker, the migrant worker must be treated with all his rights and not be turned into a criminal, as the european union is doing, which only brings more pain to families who are simply escaping from war or hunger. that is why the calling card for the next summit of heads of state and government in the spring in madrid between the european union and latin america and the caribbean would be the repeal of this "shame directive", which is not acceptable and is not understood - and of course is not understood in latin america or the caribbean - by any government, by any government in latin america and the caribbean, which is the one that sends thousands of migrant workers to the european union. that is why i am calling for a thorough reflection to repeal this 'shame directive'.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr president of the council, in the field of migration, the challenges remain and so does our commitment to overcome them. firstly, to move towards a common policy on migration; secondly, to regulate legal immigration much better; thirdly, to improve integration procedures; fourthly, to fight with determination, with great determination, against irregular or clandestine immigration; fifthly, more frontex; sixthly, to improve procedures, conventions and agreements with countries of origin and transit; seventhly, to move towards a common policy on asylum. the office in 2010, a fair, genuine and equal asylum office, with burden sharing in terms of solidarity and with international protection or subsidiary protection on its horizon. and a few words about frontex. frontex is coordination and collaboration, it is in no way a substitute for national competences. the need to strengthen frontex missions south of our borders, in southern europe, especially in the mediterranean and on the atlantic front, is not only the european union's response to the migratory pressure in greece, malta, italy and spain, it is also a humanitarian issue to avoid death and to avoid drama. the budget of frontex, look what happened to it, went from 6 million in 2005 to 78 or 83 million in 2010. but we have a concern, mr president, the concern is that frontex will not be able to manage the budget that parliament gives it. in that case we would be faced with an unacceptable situation, because the challenges are many and the missions are many. it is important that frontex gives life to crate, to the catalogue of means and of human resources, and it is necessary that the commitment of the member states to crate becomes operational. we need more and better coordination with europol, we need the management of iconex and we absolutely need, mr president, in terms of safeguarding human rights, more and better coordination between frontex, the international organisation for migration and the unhcr. these are the challenges and these are our commitments.
we shall now proceed to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
the voting is closed.
mr president, i am speaking to mr barroso. mr barroso, i must tell you that i have followed you with great interest and respect for a long time, since you were the ruler of a country which is very close to us and very dear to us, namely portugal. i must say, however, that you have me absolutely surprised now. i'm surprised for two reasons. firstly, because you have shown contempt for the group to which i belong, the nonattached group, by not giving us a minute of your time to come and tell us your political proposals. we represent many european citizens and you have shown contempt for all our constituents. secondly, because of the fragility of its political project, the poverty of its political proposals in the document 'political guidelines for the next commission'. these proposals do not even cover what you have advocated throughout your own term as president of the commission. i am surprised, in this respect, that matters such as energy, which have been well dealt with during your mandate, are now, when you offer us your proposals for the next ... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, mr president of the commission, i would like to make a preliminary observation. we cannot have the same debate after an election as before an election, out of respect for the elections and out of respect for the europeans. and we should not have to do anything different from what is done in the national parliaments in this respect. if the european commissioners are the result of a majority in each country, our main concern should be that the president of the commission is faithful to what we europeans voted for in the european elections, and hence the importance and the success of mr durao barroso as president of the commission. and it is a strictly democratic principle. and two considerations which make me have no hesitation in supporting mr durao barroso in a clear and definitive way. firstly, because of the depth of the analysis of the present situation which you have made in your speech and in your considerations. we are not just experiencing an economic and financial crisis, we are experiencing a crisis of values. and it is the first time i have heard in this house a statement of this kind; we are not only living in a crisis, we are living in a world in transformation. and that is why, in the face of the state and the market, it is more necessary than ever to emphasize the role of the individual and the change of attitude, because we have probably lived beyond our means in many countries of the union. and the second consideration, which i support, is its european ambition. europe must choose, prioritise and organise, and the crisis and the lisbon treaty are the two major issues on which the president of the commission has laid particular stress. the handling of the crisis requires a determined commission and also a parliament which is up to the seriousness of the circumstances we are about to live in. the crisis is not yet over; the crisis still has a face that is unrecognizable and the crisis will require us to fight against the social imbalance in the european union. that is why we need the political ambition that you have shown this afternoon, mr durao barroso.
madam president, mr. candidate, after listening to you carefully, i would like to underline a few points on which many of us would like to agree with you. firstly, it is clear that we are facing a crisis, but many of us feel that in recent years europe has not been able to foster expectations and hopes capable of overcoming pessimism. secondly, it is clear that we need the european union, strong institutions and a commission with a direction. but many of us like to think that you cannot stand for re-election to the same commission but to a new commission in order to face a new period which poses many and more intense challenges. we need a europe that is able to regulate markets and to guarantee rights, social rights - i stress this - but above all to provide added value in order to correct global abuses and injustices at the source. i have heard the proposal to include in your commission an immigration commissioner linked to security. and i stress that immigration does not only, and not primarily, impact our security, but our values and our ability to correct inequalities at the source. that is why the vote tomorrow is not the end of a process but the first starting point, the starting point for an immense task which the new commission must undertake in order to be able to make a new push towards a better europe, much better than the one we have known in recent years, in the face of those who decide to paralyse or set the european union back. and a commission capable of standing firmly against the europhobes and eurosceptics; capable of defending its autonomy as a european engine in the council; and capable not only of cooperating but also of continuously answering to this parliament.
mr barroso, you consider yourself a champion of the environment, and i congratulate you on that. in fact, last week we had some good news, because they finally approved the bluefin tuna, which is in a state of collapse, to be protected by including it in the cites list of protected species. i ask you, therefore, not to give me temporary support but to give me permanent support. the problem, the overall paradox of all this, is that it is the neoliberal policies that you have led so far that have brought us to this situation, because they are policies that do nothing but privatize the profit and socialize the costs. and in this sense, we have a serious problem with regard to the environment. for years we have been subsidizing fleets which have been plying these seas and which, precisely in this context, are in many cases co-responsible for the disaster. and now they're going to ask us for money so they can get out of this situation that we've put them in. this is an absurd situation and one that is really difficult to justify democratically. with everyone's money, you can't make these mistakes. we therefore ask you to base the community's fisheries policy, which must be revised, on these new principles.
commissioner almunia, madam minister, i ask you not to forget in pittsburgh that we are witnessing not only a financial and economic crisis of unprecedented proportions, but also a very great social crisis with devastating consequences for the most needy, for those who have only their job, for small businesses, for the most disadvantaged regions and countries. i hope that in pittsburgh it is clear that the economy is important, but that people are more important and that the economy is at the service of the people. i would also like to say, commissioner, madam minister, that we must not forget in pittsburgh that europe exists. make your voice heard above the voices of the three tenors. i have here the letter from the three european prime ministers of 3 september. not a word about europe. they say it is important for europe to speak with one voice, but they suppress europe's voice. you speak louder than they do. let it be known that europe has the right and the obligation, and that our vision of the social market economy is the solution to this crisis, and to prevent it from recurring in the future.
ladies and gentlemen, i agree with many of the things that have been said and i will make some nuances with regard to others. i agree that it is early to remove the crutches from the sick person, but it is time to prepare him to walk without them. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the internal market. in pittsburgh we have to do a number of things that we can't do alone; we have to put in place early warning mechanisms that work, because the ones we had didn't work; we have to review the regulatory framework, because the regulatory framework hasn't worked. i agree that it is important to regulate 'bonuses' and tax havens - all necessary but not sufficient measures. i think it is more important to restore the muscle of the financial institutions, to limit indebtedness and to make provisions in good times to cope with bad ones; i think it is more important to make an effort in the field of supervision. the commissioner knows that i supported the larosière report, although i think it was insufficient - i would be in favour of more centralised supervision - but it is obvious that european supervision cannot work without close coordination with the supervisory bodies of the other major economic areas of the world. we must also do something about trade. it is good to help emerging countries, but it is more important to remove the barriers which still hinder the exchange of goods. and most importantly, commissioner, we need to lay the foundations for stable and sustained growth for a generation. that requires free markets, markets open to innovation, markets open to entrepreneurs, but markets subject to some regulation. i'll end with a quote, which will be familiar to my compatriot almunia: "pragmatic, few, but fulfilled, my friend sancho", said el quijote.
madam minister, mr almunia, three ideas in one minute. first, more europe. because in this world situation, we must build a united and strong europe. if we do not, europe will not count, europe will not play. second, more state. more state because, in addition to setting up a new governance for the world, in addition to new regulation and supervision, and greater international coordination, i want to stress the need to put an end to tax havens and to review transnational taxation. i think this is an urgent issue for the future. and finally, a better market. i think it is important to reiterate the need for a new business ethic, to foster a new culture of corporate responsibility. i think this is essential. the company has to be placed in society, as part of society, and it has to be held accountable to those stakeholders.
in writing. - mr barroso, president of the european commission, is responsible for the current financial, economic, food and environmental crisis in which europe is plunged. so far, no one has acknowledged their mistake and blames it on the united states. so far, the commission has tried to build europe with policies of privatisation and the dismantling of the welfare state. they adopted the lisbon strategy, which foresaw economic growth of 3% and the creation of 20 million jobs by january 2010. the failure of that strategy is in the light. nevertheless, it is proposed to renew this strategy and to continue these policies, which are the causes of the crisis. because this crisis is not a pandemic, but the result of a commitment to a specific policy, the one maintained by the european commission. the eu's foreign policy programme does not mention the sahara or palestine: not only are they not listed as priorities, but the eu plans to grant advanced status to the kingdom of morocco and to upgrade relations with the state of israel.
in writing. - in greece, the fire destroyed 130 000 olive trees and many hectares of vineyards, as well as livestock, hives, warehouses, stables and a large number of greenhouses and houses. in spain, 95,769 hectares were burned due to forest fires, causing 11 deaths and an estimated loss of 395 million euros. the social, economic and environmental damage caused by the fires to local economies, production and tourism is enormous and calls for immediate national and community intervention to help the citizens affected and to restore the previous environmental conditions. we urge the commission to mobilise without delay the existing eu solidarity fund to free up the necessary resources to support the rehabilitation plans for the affected areas, the restoration of their productive potential and the reforestation of the burned areas. deforestation is partly due to the construction of roads or railways. the commission should promote measures to ensure that a proportion of public investment in public works financed by eu funds is allocated to the improvement, maintenance and extension of public forests.
on behalf of the green group, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crucial moment in the process of european integration, because not so long ago we would not have had this kind of debate. simply because no parliament would have thought of passing such a law. this means that this is not an internal issue of lithuanian politics; it simply leads us to the conclusion that we are dealing with an issue that directly affects the european credibility buoy. the whole of the european union - and here we are, three institutions - cannot remain silent while laws are passed in one member state that persecute and criminalise something as universal as the right to choose with whom one wants to have emotional or sexual relations, regardless of sex and age. to speak normally, mr landsbergis, to speak normally about homosexuality, bisexuality and transsexuality is the best guarantee for a boy or a girl to be able to live their own sexuality with respect for themselves and for the rest of the community. and this is important, because what we are asking for right now is that we ensure healthy growth, without coercion and negative stereotypes and criminalization of childhood. it is precisely by normalizing this debate, by normalizing this situation, that we will achieve this, not by prohibiting it or criminalizing it.
good day to you! i am addressing this parliament without being able to do so in my own language, catalan, spoken by more than ten million european citizens. today, on behalf of my group, i would like to express our solidarity with the whole of the agricultural sector and, in particular, with the milk producers' strike and their mobilizations throughout europe. the current situation is unsustainable and requires a political solution. it is clear that the measures taken by the commission so far do not offer a way out of the crisis or a viable alternative to the quota replacement system planned for 2015. for example, in galicia, in spain, the 14 000 dairy farmers have had to adapt to a fierce restructuring, with the intention of working and living on the land, but today they are on the verge of imminent disappearance. for all these reasons, the commission, as it has done in other sectors, must also intervene in the milk market by regulating production, redistributing quotas, offering temporary compensatory measures, promoting the traceability of products and helping to bring producers and consumers closer together, by correcting the dysfunctions caused by the oligopoly of distribution. why does the commission not take decisive action to prevent the negative consequences of this oligopolistic activity of the large distributors? why do we not guarantee the rural settlement of our milk producers - and farmers in general - which offers extremely positive economic, social and environmental externalities?
madam president, madam commissioner, you ended your speech by telling us that there is a crisis in the dairy sector, but you began by telling us that you had already taken all the measures and that the matter was being resolved. look, rectifying is for the wise. and that is a spanish saying that could very well apply to the case before us today. the dairy sector has been suffering for months now from one of the most serious crises in its history and yet, because you do not want to give in, or the european commission or some of the governments - including my own, the spanish government - refuse to back down on the decisions on the cap health check ... these decisions were taken without taking into account the fragility of this sector and in a market context very different from that which emerged after the closure of that commitment. it gives the impression that the member states either did not want to or could not see the storm coming at the time. the reform was quickly out of date, because of the huge turn the market has taken, a turn which shows that the sector is completely at the mercy of price volatility. that large producers like france and germany - countries which achieved, in absolute terms, the greatest increase in their national production quotas under the agreement - are now the ones asking for a review of the checking decisions is a cause for concern. in my view, the member states were wrong and should have listened more carefully to the voices, including myself, that we were calling for any kind of final decision on the future of the sector to be postponed until 2011. it's a shame they didn't listen to us. do it now!
madam president, madam commissioner, today's debate is essential to make clear our concern about the crisis in the dairy sector, to overcome a situation which is endangering the future of a large proportion of dairy farms in the union. we are facing a european crisis, which we must tackle with a european perspective, with ambition and by applying all the community instruments at our disposal, something which the commission has not been able to put forward so far. commissioner, do not pass the ball to the member states to help whoever can, look for common solutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. another important issue is that of the large difference between the prices paid to the producer and the final price paid by consumers, which affects not only the dairy sector but all agricultural and livestock products. there are many men and women who, in the face of the present uncertainty, need a clear and forceful signal from us to ensure that this activity continues.
we cannot let the dairy sector down, it is vital for our rural world, for food safety and quality. the future markets and the medium- and long-term prospects for the milk and milk products market in the european union are showing positive signs. we must prevent them from being derailed by a negative situation. we need countercyclical actions and joint initiatives. the fall in prices shows the inadequacy of the support measures. the distortions in the dairy market, in every supply chain, are not working efficiently or fairly. producers are victims of price falls that destabilize the market, do not transfer to consumers and delay the recovery of the sector. we must correct this, ensure fair competition and strengthen traceability, also in marketing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as the european commission stated in its communication of 22 july, the situation in the dairy sector has deteriorated dramatically over the last 12 months. however, in view of the profound impact of the crisis on milk prices and, in particular, on the incomes of producers, the measures proposed so far by the european commission and discussed in the council of ministers have not been sufficient to alleviate the fall in demand and its consequences. the current crisis presents us with a challenge to revive the decline in demand, but also an opportunity to encourage consumption and promotion of dairy products, and to ensure that the indisputable quality of the initial product reaches the final consumer intact. in this respect, measures such as improved labelling, increased milk consumption by certain sections of the population or the use of milk for calves' feeding can help to improve not only the current problem but also the structural situation of the sector.
in order to close the debate, seven motions for resolutions have been tabled, pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the commission statement on energy security in connection with the nabucco and desertec projects.
mr president, i would like to stress the timeliness of this resolution and also to appreciate the effort made by all the groups to reach a common resolution. certainly, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid a repetition of the situation of helplessness that many of our citizens suffered when russia decided to cut off gas supplies through ukraine, it is vital to diversify energy sources as much as possible and to diversify gas transport. in this respect, it is urgent to build new gas pipelines which, like nabucco and other projects, will help to improve the security of supply in central europe. however, to ensure supply in all countries of the european union, these efforts must be supplemented by supply from the south of the continent. that said, i would like to stress - as the commissioner has done - another dimension of the problem. the recent crisis has shown us that the union is not suffering from a lack of gas stocks but from a problem of transmission capacity, hence the importance of focusing our efforts on improving interconnections within the union. and believe me, ladies and gentlemen, there is a considerable margin for improvement in the situation we have. i'll give you the example of my country. as you know, spain can become an important transit hub for europe thanks to its connection with algeria through the medgaz gas pipeline, which is already in an advanced stage of construction, and its six liquefied natural gas plants, the capacity of which could be doubled if an emergency situation were to recur. however, spain cannot contribute without increasing its interconnection capacity in the pyrenees. finally, we must be aware that the construction of large-scale infrastructure is only an important part, but only a part of the european union's policy on security of supply. the security of supply is above all about energy saving and the use of renewable energy, and it is in this context that we consider cooperation with the countries of north africa in the development of renewable energy to be important, because it is linked to my call for increased supply from southern europe. the mediterranean solar plan, promoted by the union for the mediterranean, is therefore an attractive idea which we want to support in this parliament.
mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for your very clear explanation of the current situation with regard to nabucco and its possibilities and viability, as it seems to us - from what you have told us - in the short term, and also for the information you have given on the desertec project. there is no doubt that the sun is an extraordinary source of energy, and converting that energy into energy for use by people is something that has had great development over the last twenty years, but that, without a doubt, still has a process to go through until it reaches technologically, especially in projects like the one we were talking about - desertec - its full potential and its full viability. it is welcome, it must be supported and it will move forward as the technological problems are solved too. but it is striking that when we talk about energy efficiency, in this case, above all, about security of supply, and therefore about diversification of energy sources, we ignore a source of energy such as nuclear energy to such an extent. this source of energy is systematically discriminated against because it does not correspond to what is happening in many countries of the european union, nor to the world trend, nor to the energy needs of mankind at the moment. we must therefore turn this into the exact opposite, an attitude of integration of the different energy sources, where they all play their part, and we must not live in this parliament so openly with our backs turned to this reality.
mr president, given the external dependence of the eu on energy, securing supply is an issue that must always be present in the union's external action. furthermore, all the forecasts agree that the world's energy demand will grow very much in the next 25 years. europeans must reduce our high dependence on russian gas, especially after the crises of recent years. moreover, there is a clear strategy by russia to secure its dominance in europe in the gas sector. there are projects like north stream, blue stream ii and also south stream. it is therefore necessary to diversify suppliers and routes. that is why nabucco is of interest, because it will give access to gas from azerbaijan and iraq and also from turkmenistan, thus strengthening our energy relations with central asia, an increasingly important region. i therefore welcome the agreement of last july, which the commissioner told us about, and also the explicit support for nabucco which president barroso has given in the political guidelines he has recently presented. i know that there are doubts about the viability of nabucco, but there were also doubts about the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan pipeline, which is now a reality. i would like to stress that the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean also play a major role in the supply of gas to europe. algeria is at the very top of the list, a major supplier of gas to my country and to italy. we must ensure that the work on medgaz is completed quickly, and i would also like to highlight the gas problems of countries such as egypt and libya. in short, energy issues must be given priority in the euro-mediterranean partnership for the benefit of both parties. ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon includes energy as a shared competence and states that the union's energy policy will have as one of its objectives the guarantee of security of energy supply. it is a good stimulus to progress towards the creation of a common foreign policy on energy, which is becoming increasingly necessary and which is emphasized in the resolution we are adopting today. finally, this is a difficult objective, as is shown by the fact that we still lack a genuine internal energy market in europe, in the union, because we do not even have the necessary interconnections. that is why i very much welcome the commitments in this area contained in the document mentioned by president barroso.
mr president, the projections for 2030 indicate that gas consumption in the union will increase by more than 40% and that our domestic production is declining. this means that even with all the projects currently under way, the demand will not be met. we therefore need all possible supply routes and, above all, we need to coordinate all the actions of the member states in order to optimise the contribution to common needs. the south stream and nabucco projects have economic, energy, historical and political implications of great importance, and we must deal with them with great intelligence, with great prudence and be attentive to the concerns and needs of all the countries concerned. many of the problems we are facing today could be solved if we first coordinated the action of all the member states strongly, built more liquefied gas terminals, improved the internal market and spoke with one voice.
in writing. − the eu adopted in 2007, under the german presidency, a strategy for central asia towards a new partnership. the agreement with tajikistan is included in this strategy and it has been noted that its main ambition in the region is natural resources, in particular gas. i voted against the report on a partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of tajikistan because the eu's interest in that country is its natural resources and its geostrategic position, as tajikistan borders afghanistan and china. the eu's relations with third countries should be based on other interests, on mutual interests, always with respect for the sovereignty of the two parties and, of course, with respect for the management of their resources.
in writing. the lithuanian parliament has adopted amendments to the law on the protection of minors against the harmful effects of public information. this law aims to prevent the dissemination of public information that campaigns in favor of homosexual relationships and defies family values. it is therefore necessary for the lithuanian authorities to amend or repeal the law and to refrain from approving amendments to the criminal and administrative codes, in order to ensure that the laws are compatible with human rights and fundamental freedoms as laid down in international and european law. the new president of lithuania has taken a good step in this direction by asking the lithuanian parliament to review the law in order to ensure that the constitutional principles of the rule of law, legal certainty and legislative clarity are respected and that the guarantees of an open society and a pluralistic democracy are not violated. for these reasons, and because of the urgent need to revise this law, i have voted in favour of the joint resolution of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution, although i consider it insufficient. the proposal to end the milk quota system in 2015, and until then to increase the quota by 1% per annum will, for practical purposes, mean legalizing the existing surpluses in some countries, which are already producing above their quotas, exporting at very low prices, which pushes market prices down, in many countries below the cost of production. the commission's ultimate aim is to deregulate and thus liberalise the dairy sector in europe. we are totally against these measures, because they serve, as do the cap reforms, the interests of large companies to the detriment of small producers. we are in favour of the measures to regulate the milk market.
mr president, this parliament is the palace of the chimera, the palace of dreams. the irish people, with their strong vote, give us the courage and strength to continue to prosper and to build a strong europe and, above all, a federal europe. only then will we be entitled to the title of legitimate heirs of the fathers of europe, whose work we are all here to thank.
i see a blue card. i would point out to the honourable member that it shows that every time you show the blue card you prevent a member whose name is on the list of speakers from speaking. i shall be speaking at the bureau meeting to try to change this provision, because it cannot be that members whose names appear on the list of speakers are left without speaking because others interrupt with questions, which is legitimate.
i would like to explain again to the honourable members that, first of all, the rules of procedure say that the president 'may grant the use of the floor'. so, 'can grant the use of the word' means that you can grant it or not grant it. the president prefers to allow the members on the list to speak rather than allowing those who have been called to speak, and thus preventing members who have been called to speak from speaking according to the minutes allocated to each group. secondly, the regulation says that the blue card is shown during the speech of the person to whom a question is to be put, not afterwards.
mr president, i would first of all like to say that i am alarmed by this debate, because what should be a day of celebration for europe is turning out to be a debate in which the president of parliament's speech has been called into question and the results welcomed. there have been more than ten statements openly opposed, not to europe - which may be legitimate - but to the democratic result of the irish referendum itself. i think it is time, it is time to say in this house that here, where the popular sovereignty of european citizens resides, nine out of ten citizens represented here are in favour of europe, that there is a pro-europe undercurrent of the great democratic parties of europe. and it is also appropriate to say and remind honourable members that the treaty of lisbon is a necessary condition for making more europe, for making a more united and stronger europe, but unfortunately it is not a sufficient condition. i would like to address all the honourable members and say that if 60 years ago the founding fathers probably thought that europe was the need to build a common space of peace after the tragedy of war, after the pretension of imposing ideas or political hegemony on one another in europe, today europe is justified in a different way. today we are at the beginning of a world government and, either we are there, or we are not. the debate is a shakespearean debate, it is to be or not to be for europe. i had the opportunity a few days ago to talk to people who were in pittsburgh, and the reflection that was on my mind was that the world doesn't look at europe, it looks at asia. europe must be united and strong to be present at the tables of world governance. and if we're not there, we won't be, we won't paint, we won't have the capacity to influence. so lisbon is a road, but it has to be walked.
i am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but the elevators are not working, and the president's button is not working either, so that the speaker who is going over his or her time and stealing time from other colleagues who are on the list to speak can be cut off. either they stop speaking when i ask them to, or, since we do not have a microphone-cutting button in the bureau, half the colleagues on the list of speakers in such an important debate will not be able to speak, which i find outrageously unsound.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us imagine that tonight, when this endless debate is over, we go out and there are 27 colleagues downstairs and we have to decide unanimously which restaurant we are going to. and if we get past that hurdle, imagine that we have all 27 of you to take the same menu. and the 27 of us have to drink or not drink wine. this metaphor, coming from someone who is in a state of thinning out, mr president, illustrates well what the european union is and what the treaty of lisbon is doing at the moment: the most important thing in my view is to abolish unanimity. because if all of us who have spoken here want the european union to work, to be effective, to have added value for the people, the first thing we have to do is to replace unanimity with super-qualified majority requirements. and that is the most important thing that the treaty of lisbon does. opposing the lisbon treaty is to want europe to fail and to have no important role in the world. i do not understand, mr president, and i regret that some of the members who have freely entered this parliament have more confidence in the council of ministers than in the european parliament. besides, people who will never be in the council of ministers. but why do they feel that their interests are best defended in the council of ministers and not in this parliament, where they are present and can vote? i also do not understand, mr president, why some of my colleagues have said that what they want is to take their country out of the european union - and that is legitimate. because then we must be in favour of the treaty of lisbon, ladies and gentlemen, because the treaty of lisbon is the one that establishes, for the first time, the withdrawal clause. now, yes, you must have the courage and the ambition to tell your people that they must leave the european union. and that i'd like to see, too. in short, mr president, i believe that with the result of the irish referendum we are completing the process. and i want to say to mr rouček and mr brok - who are concerned about the attitude of the president of the czech republic - that i have no doubt, mr president. and i have no doubt that refusing to sign what has been passed by the houses that elected you, refusing to sign the treaty, would be tantamount to the queen of england refusing to sign a law of westminster. that's not possible. and i am sure, moreover, that someone as patriotic as mr klaus does not want to see his country in an internal constitutional crisis. i therefore believe, mr president, that this is the moment to join forces, to realise that the world is not waiting for europeans and that either we europeans unite and take a constructive stance on the problems facing our citizens at the moment, or europe as a power disappears from the map. that is what i believe we europeans and this house must do together at this time.
mr president, by telegram, three messages: first of all, like so many speakers before me, i welcome the resounding 'yes' to the irish referendum. secondly, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i would stress the importance of the likely entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in strengthening an area of legitimacy for european construction, such as that which concerns citizenship, rights, freedoms and our ability to fight together against organised crime and terrorism, and, in the context of the schengen treaty, to be effective in dealing with sensitive issues such as asylum, immigration, aliens and the control of the union's external borders. but, thirdly, i remember, as others before me have, that it is not the end of the story. the czech republic has yet to ratify the treaty, but we must learn the lessons from the difficulties we have had in ratifying the treaty of lisbon. it has not been easy, it has been ten years of debate and this will make us much more demanding, not only of ourselves but of future enlargements, in demanding loyalty, cooperation and responsibility from all those who sign the new rules which we are going to have as from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
mr president, i think one of the conclusions of this debate is that when things are explained, when people are spoken to, when people are communicated to, when falsehoods are rejected, greater participation and greater adherence to the european project is achieved. and so i would like to make a positive and constructive contribution, in line with what many speakers have said, and ask the european commission to consider whether, in the composition of this new commission, we should not include the post of commissioner for human rights in a more comprehensive portfolio, such as that of commissioner for citizenship, including communication, which is absolutely necessary to be able to communicate well, to be able to explain well, to be able to engage in a real dialogue on our european project.
mr president, the spanish government has decided that the barcelona to perpignan high-speed train line should run just under the sagrada família cathedral, putting at risk a monument that was designated a unesco world heritage site in 1984 and was visited by three million tourists last year. the construction of a new tunnel extremely close to the foundation of the sagrada família cathedral may lead to irreparable damage to that building. the spanish government says that there is no problem, but this year the tunnelling machines of a new metro line in barcelona have experienced multiple incidents in similar land conditions. one tunnelling machine has been blocked near the llobregat river for some months without anyone knowing how to solve the situation. i wish to report the risk of the collapse of the sagrada família to the european institutions. to preserve this european masterpiece of general interest please examine the matter, stop the work being carried out by the spanish government and change the route of the tunnel.
mr president, piracy is a problem of concern to this parliament, to its member states and, of course, to spain, because at this moment a spanish fisherman is being kidnapped in the indian ocean with 36 crew members on board. first of all, i would like to express my solidarity with the crew and their families and, of course, my support for the spanish government in their early release. but we are not talking about a problem of the spanish tuna fleet specifically, but it affects three countries - france, italy and spain - which are fishing in international waters and outside the exclusive zone of somalia. and this would require an international response and joint european prevention and response measures. that is, more and better operation atalanta, which already exists and which has been a success because of the number and reduction of kidnappings that have occurred in 2009 compared to 2008. finally, i would like to stress the support that should be given to an international summit on piracy in somalia, because international relations must be improved to address these problems on the ground, and because international dialogue must be improved.
mr president, some 36 people were kidnapped some days ago while fishing in the indian ocean under an agreement approved by the european commission. on 15 september, it denounced the situation of risk and helplessness in which they were carrying out their work. i proposed some concrete measures and nothing has been done. unfortunately, that's why today we have to talk about people who are being kidnapped by pirates. i therefore ask the european commission to insist and to recommend to the member states that the military be incorporated into fishing vessels, and to address this recommendation to the spanish government because it has proved to be an effective measure, france is doing it and we are seeing it as such. this parliament has recognized in a resolution that the fisheries sector is helpless because priority has been given to the merchant marine. this was also acknowledged by the head of the european commission on the eve of the hijacking, and we therefore ask that this protection be extended to fishing vessels. i also ask the president to show and convey solidarity and support to these kidnapped people and their families and to invite the fisherman's boss, when he is released, to this parliament.
mr president, in the face of the abduction of the spanish fisherman alakrana by pirates in the indian ocean, i would like to stress the firm determination of the spanish government, with the support of the european union, to release the 36 crew members - 16 of them spanish - safe and sound, and to bring the kidnappers to justice. thanks to the european operation atalanta, launched in december 2008 on a franco-spanish initiative - to which other eu countries have joined - we now have a considerable deployment of forces in the area. but the extension of the protection area does not cover where the fishermen are fishing, so we call on the shipowners not to leave the safe area and we urge the european union and its member states to agree on an extension south of the atalanta cover and more means to ensure the free movement of the 20 000 vessels transiting an ocean three times the size of the mediterranean sea. while the deployment has ensured access for merchants carrying 227 000 tonnes of the un food programme to somalia, we now have to make an effort to cover the work of the dozens of european fishermen operating in the area. finally, we urge the member states to put their information and intelligence services into action to find and arrest the intermediaries who give pirates a clue and collect the ransom, and who are operating from european soil.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of this house to the fact that the 30th world tourism day was celebrated on 27 september under the theme 'tourism, the celebration of diversity', at a time when we all hope for the early entry into force of the lisbon treaty, which incorporates tourism as a new area of action for the european union. one of the challenges facing the sector is to improve the provision of tourism experiences for everyone without discrimination. as the montreal declaration points out, access to leisure tourism for all necessarily leads to the fight against inequalities and against the exclusion of those who have a different culture, have fewer economic means, suffer from physical disabilities or live in a developing country. parliament has translated this ambition into a pilot project on social tourism which the commission will develop this year. it has also done so because social tourism boosts the employment rate by combating seasonality - one of the sector's major problems - and creates greater equality, more jobs and longer working hours. this, ladies and gentlemen, is our objective.
mr president, just a few hours ago, cristo ancor cabello, a spanish soldier who was part of the international security assistance force, the force deployed under a united nations mandate, in which soldiers of very different nationalities carry out a very hard work, worthy of our recognition, to improve the living conditions and security of the afghan civilian population, was killed in herat (afghanistan). i would ask you, mr president, to convey the condolences of the european parliament to his family and our support and solidarity to his colleagues, five of whom were injured. i would also like to add, mr president, that the spanish government remains firmly committed to the security of all troops on peacekeeping missions abroad, not only in afghanistan but also elsewhere in the world.
madam president, i would like to begin by thanking and congratulating my friend mrs weber on the great work she has done on this report. as you know, judicial cooperation will become part of the european parliament's legislative powers in the very near future. the irish people have already spoken in a referendum and i think they have done so in the positive and right direction. european citizens expect the area of security, freedom and justice to be a reality in which their procedural rights are respected and guaranteed in the same way, no matter where they are in the community. it is therefore our duty to ensure that these procedural guarantees are respected in all member states. where a positive conflict arises between jurisdictions of different member states, it should be resolved as quickly as possible in order to protect the citizen and avoid any risk of infringement of the legal principle of non bis in idem. to this end, cooperation and communication between the judicial bodies involved in the conflict of jurisdiction is essential. the report also discusses the role of eurojust and the role it should play when this conflict of competence occurs. the rapporteur supports the idea that eurojust should be informed of any conflict that occurs, even if it has been resolved bilaterally between the judicial bodies involved. on the contrary, the alternative rapporteur for my group, mrs macovei, believes that, in the interests of procedural economy, eurojust should only be informed in cases where it has not been possible to reach an agreement before the courts involved. in my view, mrs macovei is right. in addition, and on a different subject, mrs weber urges the commission to submit as soon as possible a supplementary proposal to the framework decision laying down rules for the settlement of negative jurisdictional disputes.
madam president, commissioner, i am pleased with the question we are debating today, but i understand that it covers only one of the possible cases of closure of a company: bankruptcy or financial insolvency. there are, however, other types of situations where airlines may close or cease operations. i am referring to cases of suspension of licences for security reasons, voluntary closure or closure for any other reason than economic. these situations are identical to the problems we are discussing today, namely the lack of a passenger, since the ticket is either not reimbursed or, if it is, sometimes this reimbursement entails considerable expenses. i understand that the regulation on compensation for passengers in the event of delay and cancellation could be one of the instruments, but i do not think it is enough. in this context i would ask the commission to consider proposing legislative measures for other cases - these cases i have mentioned - which go beyond bankruptcy and are not covered by existing community legislation. otherwise, we risk being well-intentioned and shortsighted and only giving legal cover to a particular situation, leaving out many passengers who may also suffer from the closure of an airline, even if the reason for it is not economic or financial.
mr president, mrs reding, this debate can only have one purpose: to send a powerful political message in favour of freedom of expression and its quality control, which is information pluralism. and to launch it in europe, and therefore on a european scale. i agree with those who have spoken in stressing that freedom of expression and information pluralism are fundamental foundations of the european construction and are never conquered or affirmed forever. on the contrary, they are constantly threatened, and the threats do not come only from politics, that is to say, from authoritarianism and populism, or from the regression or denial of freedom and pluralism in the sphere of politics, but also from the market, from its concentration, its distortions, its abuses. that is why i believe that this debate is not about one country but has a european dimension, because it is at european level that a process of democratic transformation is taking place. if democracy was representative when the universal suffrage was signed, which makes all people equal "every person has a vote", in the communications market we are not all equal, because we do not all have equal access to radio talk, television debate, column, or editorial in the media. we cannot all participate equally in the social construction of a reality which, however, democratically belongs to us all equally at european level. that is why this debate is important, to remind you that in 2009 the commission undertook to present a communication to this parliament to assess the possible threats to freedom of expression and information pluralism at european level and to draw attention to the importance of drawing up a directive guaranteeing information pluralism in the face of new technologies and, in particular, in the television field. it is very important that this debate takes place in europe, because it is clear that many countries in the european union cannot safely tackle this debate on their own. from this european parliament and at european level we will be sending a strong message of commitment to the sustainability and survival of freedom of expression in information pluralism in the 21st century.
madam president, ensuring media pluralism is a commitment of the european union. the debate on press freedom has to do with the pluralism of media ownership, its structure and the procedures for appointing its managers, the relations between politics, business and the media themselves, and citizens' access to different opinions. i think you will agree with me that the situation of the media in italy, which is the debate we are discussing today, does not meet the basic standards for guaranteeing freedom of the press in that country. we therefore ask the commission to take account of the demands made by this parliament in recent years and to propose the definition of concrete criteria for assessing possible violations of these rights and freedoms in each of the member states. our goal, no doubt, is to protect the right of citizens to receive plural information, as well as that of journalists to report freely because, as the protesters said last saturday, information makes us freer.
madam president, i voted in favour of the resolution and also in favour of the amendments establishing the tobin levy. for personal reasons, because back in 2002, when i was a member of the basque parliament, the basque parliament adopted a resolution in which it said that we considered it necessary to address the phenomenon of international capital movements in accordance with the social and economic impact on the planet as a whole, that we should introduce criteria and mechanisms to guarantee control mechanisms and contribution to human development, to overcoming inequalities between peoples and social sectors and to environmental balance, and that we had the obligation to create mechanisms to restrict speculative movements. we also felt that we had an obligation to contribute to the development of proposals which would address the democratic control and social meaning of international capital movements and we also noted and approved the need to establish urgently the so-called tobin tax, a tax on international financial transactions intended for development aid, and to establish democratic mechanisms for regulating the international system. i am glad that, some years after the basque parliament adopted this decision, the european parliament has adopted a resolution to this effect.
mr president, i would like to denounce the restrictions suffered by the catalan language in the spanish state. more specifically, i am referring to the autonomous government of the valencian community, which in 2007 closed the tv repeaters of la carrasqueta and mondúver. some other tv repeaters will be closed in the coming months. these tv repeaters allow the reception of catalan television in the valencian region. the valencian autonomous government is acting against the audiovisual media services directive, which ensures the free circulation of television contents between european countries. inside the eu, cultural freedom exists, but, inside the spanish state – for catalan television – it does not exist. this is the sad paradox i wanted to share with all of you this afternoon.
mr president, i would like to denounce here an event which has no precedent in the ten years of reign of mohammed vi in morocco: the fact that a moroccan military court is going to try seven saharawi independence fighters for collaboration with the enemy, an accusation which can lead to the death penalty. since the time of hassan ii, this had not happened. no civilian has ever sat on the bench of a military court. this means that repression is once again intensifying in this former spanish colony. if the complicit silence of the european union is dramatic, it is even more serious that of the spanish government, which is mainly responsible, by neglect, for the current situation in western sahara. so my question is very direct: is this the moroccan regime with which we want to have a privileged relationship? is this the regime with which we wish to establish a relationship of friendship and mutual respect? how many times can and should we remain silent about what is happening in western sahara? is this the answer they are trying to give to the problems that are affecting all those people at the moment? i believe that it is now, precisely in the context of these negotiations, that we must give a clear and decisive response to this situation.
mr president, agreements must be respected and rules must be binding on all equally. this statement, which seems obvious, is not so obvious when we refer to the association agreement signed between the european union and morocco, with constant irregularities, as the european anti-fraud office itself acknowledges. the spanish tomato sector, and in particular the canary islands, is going through difficult times and is demanding that the agreement be respected, but it also wants to know what the commission's plans are in relation to the new agreement which is still being negotiated: whether an increase in the preferential tomato quota has been offered and on what terms, whether the entry price system is going to be changed to prevent further non-compliance in the future, and whether the phytosanitary requirements which are required for european production are going to be required. and speaking of agreements, the banana sector is also extremely concerned about negotiations, sometimes bilateral, with third countries, which, if not accompanied by compensatory measures, can have irreparable consequences. in both cases, the commission cannot abandon its producers and we cannot abandon them.
mr president, i congratulate and support carlos coelho and i would like to stress that this report was unanimously adopted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the council's proposal concerns the second part of the mandate given to the schengen evaluation group, namely the verification of the correct application of the community acquis following the abolition of internal border controls. the aim of this mandate is to make the schengen evaluation mechanism more efficient. the assessment of the correct application of the schengen acquis is based on elements of the third pillar, while other aspects of the acquis are based on first pillar instruments. in my view, the legal basis proposed is correct, but it seems inconsistent with the very real entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, at which point the functions and competences now shared between the two pillars will be unified. the proposal contains hardly any new elements in relation to the evaluation mechanism which is currently in force and carlos has already pointed out these ex novo. it is, however, a very important change, since the document before us will involve the transfer to the commission of the functions currently carried out by the council. this transfer of powers means that parliament and the member states themselves are de facto excluded from the evaluation process, even though they are the ones with the powers to secure their external borders. the european parliament, which represents the european citizens, plays a key role, particularly in matters relating to security. our work is important and is recognised as such by the treaty of lisbon. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. mr president, one more point: i have just seen the vice-president putting on a jersey, and it is very cold in here, and i have to apologize for having to leave, but i am not leaving because i do not want to continue the debate, but because i am beginning to have bronchitis, and this is harmful, so take some action, mr president.
madam president, thank you very much to the council and thank you very much to the commission. in relation to the subject under discussion, there is a set of certainties and a set of uncertainties. the first certainty, or the first common element, is that there is a great deal of convergence today in the view that emissions must be reduced and that clean energy must be developed. the second is that we need a global approach or treatment of the problem. therefore, any international agreement must involve the countries which emit the most co2 into the atmosphere: the big emitters, such as the united states, china, india, brazil, etc. the third is that the european union is putting forward a proposal which is that of a compulsory system of targets: 20% or, in another case, 30%. fourthly, there is no reasonable indication, for various reasons, that the big emitters will accept such an agreement, and that is the reality. the lack of optimism is not such when reality is recognized; it is pessimism that ultimately triumphs if reality is not known. only by recognizing reality can we make effective policy, and that is the most optimistic policy. i believe that the european union, in developing its leadership in this area, has an obligation to put on the table complementary measures, complementary proposals. we have spoken here of japan and we must also talk about the success of projects such as the sectoral approach, which affects the most polluting industries and which, on the basis of a benchmarking process, have made it possible to achieve, for example in japan, extraordinary objectives. those are realistic ways of tackling climate change. copenhagen is an opportunity, but it will only be an opportunity for efficiency and not for rhetoric if we start from reality.
madam president, the two most dramatic crises facing the world are poverty and the effects of climate change: two crises which will be even more interlinked in the future, two crises which are more devastating every day. today, there are many more poor people than there were a year ago, tens of millions more. today, the effects of climate change are more severe, more intense than ever before. we're a month and a half from copenhagen, a few weeks away. in copenhagen we have to make a great effort. we need to do more to combat climate change, but not with the resources we currently allocate to development aid, not with the resources we currently allocate to education or health. developing countries need both resources. we therefore need to go beyond 0.7% of gross national product. that was the message of several leaders at the recent united nations meeting. that was the message from the president of the spanish government.
mr president, i voted in favour of the reports from the bahamas, barbados, saint kitts and nevis and the seychelles. i think that the report is right in that it does away with the bureaucratic formalities of agreements and the freedom of movement of citizens, and that all these measures should be reciprocal. now, with the greatest respect for all these friendly and sovereign countries, i would like to take advantage of our good relations, as evidenced by these agreements, to help all these countries, 'i insist', friends and sovereigns, to be vaccinated against a pandemic even more deadly than the flu: tax havens. it has already been discussed at the g20 and in many other forums. tax havens have contributed in a very important and regrettable way to the economic crisis we are suffering. some, perhaps not much, is being done to eradicate the most active tax havens, but let us not be naive, others may be activated. in spain, the gürtel case is a current one: not only a very wide network of corruption but also of capital flight. let us therefore, representatives of the commission and the council, take advantage of these agreements to insist on this vaccination which, sooner or later, we must demand in the midst of a wider and more radical policy against tax havens.
president of the commission. − not only have we revised the rules of the globalisation fund, we have also reprogrammed the european social fund with the fast-tracking of eur 1.8 billion to reinforce active labour market policies. on cohesion policy we have also made some changes to simplify the rules and to frontload payments. this is a very important policy as well. i have already mentioned the eur 550 billion of the stimulus plan and of course i may also mention the globalisation adjustment fund as well as some other proposals that we have made. unfortunately i have to say that there was one idea the member states did not follow, namely to suspend the cofinancing for the social fund. we put this on the council table, but it was rejected. i still hope that with your support we can have that, because there are some countries that simply do not have the financial means to complement the funding for the social fund out of their own money. so we are also using to the maximum all the instruments we have at community level to back up what the member states can do themselves to fight this unemployment.
mr president, thank you for this interesting debate we have today. you said, on employment, that some member states did not attend the prague summit. it is more serious, mr president: the council, in the greatest employment crisis in the history of europe - today 10 000 europeans will have lost their jobs and tomorrow and the day after - has not taken any serious initiative; there has not even been a summit on employment. i should also have said, mr president, that the commission has an agenda from last year, which was old at the time and which does not respond at this moment to the pressing needs of millions and millions of citizens, of a whole generation of europeans and of the entire welfare state whose future is at stake. mr president, i would ask you for your leadership: we need active leadership, leadership that breaks through inertia, that breaks through opacity and tells the council that we cannot go on like this. we need a commission that does not just manage ordinary resources and ordinary affairs, but that in this difficult time - i know it is difficult for you, mr president - takes the lead in europe in a great institutional agreement to give hope to a whole generation of europeans.
commissioner. - the truth is that we are doing our best and, as i announced when i presented the programme, we are increasing social attention because today there is an exceptional situation of social urgency. that is why i announced, for example, the need to carry out social impact assessments of all new legislation. that is why we have promoted the so-called common active inclusion principles as community policy. that is why i can say that in our dialogue with the member states we are supporting social investment. social spending, which accounted for 28% of gdp in 2008, will rise to 31% in 2010. this is about 3.5 billion more! so we are making an effort here, but obviously, mr president, it is true, it must be a collective effort, it must be the commission, parliament and the member states.
president of the commission. − first of all, the question of credibility is a subjective question for you. i think that the response to this question was given by parliament, which gave me a new mandate recently, so it shows that this parliament believes i am credible to go ahead with this policy. in fact we are pursuing our policy in response to the economic and financial crisis. we have taken important decisions; we are leading globally on regulatory and supervisory measures we have taken recently. based on the report i commissioned to the de larosière group, we have tabled some proposals which i hope will be approved the council and by the parliament. just today, at a meeting of the commission, we approved the communication on derivatives, which will of course have to be followed up by concrete legislation. so indeed we are responding to the financial crisis in all its aspects, including regulatory and supervisory, and i have already taken some decisions during this commission, and the next commission will, of course, follow this path because i believe the situation demands it.
mr president, i would like to speak about the aid approved under the temporary framework to alleviate the problems arising from the economic crisis and, in particular, from opel. i would like to ask you whether the commission is examining whether the aid received by germany under the temporary framework has been made conditional on a prior agreement on the geographical distribution of the restructuring measures, which would not be in keeping with the purpose of this aid. and in this case, i would like to know whether you agree that the company should be free to review opel's distribution and restructuring by applying its own economic and productive criteria and maintaining the largest number of jobs.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? ladies and gentlemen, young people! i see the future of europe sitting up there on the sidelines. it is a great honour to be here today for the debate on parliament's first reading of the 2010 budget. europe is experiencing the worst economic crisis since the second world war. employment is falling, unemployment is rising and public finances are running record deficits. budgetary discipline and sound financial management are accelerating the pace of change. structurally sound policies will strengthen the strength and the durability of the recovery we hope to see. against this background, the council unanimously agreed on a well-balanced budget that invested resources in education, research, infrastructure, cohesion, responsible public finances and margins for the unforeseen, i.e. all the factors that we know are important for growth and for prosperity. there are still big questions. the european recovery plan and support for the dairy sector must be financed. the european parliament's committee on budgets proposes that spending be increased by 10% - by 10%! what other activity, besides unemployment costs, are we allowing to increase by so much? the committee on budgets believes that despite large deficits - 8% of gdp in france, 6% of gdp in germany, 14% of gdp in the uk and ireland - countries should borrow more for spending and more for administration. so you're borrowing for administration. i am particularly concerned that this large expenditure is making it difficult to finance the recovery plan. i am also particularly concerned that the committee's proposal leaves no margin for unforeseen events. we need to agree on a budget that is acceptable to the member states and that we can defend before the people. we must agree on the recovery plan, which is of vital importance for the development of europe. given the agreement we reached in april, i am convinced that we will succeed in this. we're gonna have to solve the complicated milk issue. given our excellent cooperation - for that is what we have had so far - i am convinced that we will be able to solve this difficult question in the difficult situation and the situation in which we find ourselves.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to speak to you today before you finalise your first reading of the 2010 draft budget with thursday’s vote. i would like, first of all, to thank parliament for restoring the preliminary draft budget in many areas. the commission very much welcomes parliament’s focus on using the budget as a tool to overcome the current crisis by enhancing economic growth, competitiveness, cohesion and job protection. the commission also welcomes the inclusion, in parliament’s first reading, of the amending letter requesting increased spending notably for palestine, climate change and accompanying measures in favour of acp countries. turning to the core issues of the present budget procedure, the commission has fully understood that parliament regards the financing of the second phase of the european economic recovery plan as a priority. let me tell you that this is a priority for the commission too. from that point of view, i understand the logic behind the european parliament’s so-called ‘asterisk amendment’ on the recovery plan going beyond the current expenditure ceiling. next week the commission will present a package to address the needs related to the recovery plan with a view to reaching an agreed solution at the november conciliation. at this stage, the commission has not yet identified all the sources of financing corresponding to the full amount for the energy projects required by the recovery plan in 2010. however, the commission will endeavour to identify all possible availabilities with a view to closing any outstanding gap in time for the november conciliation. the commission is concerned about the current difficulties in the dairy sector and we have taken due note of parliament’s proposal to create a special ‘milk fund’ and of the stance taken by the ministers of agriculture. in line with the proposal made yesterday by my colleague marianne fischer boel, next week’s amending letter to the 2010 budget will propose that eur 280 million be dedicated to help address the immediate consequences of the crisis for milk producers. this new proposal has an impact on the initially envisaged financing of the gap for the eerp but, as i said, the commission will deploy all efforts to eventually find the necessary resources in time for the conciliation meeting. now i would like to draw your attention to a number of issues where parliament’s first reading gives rise to concerns. the european parliament is proposing an overall increase of nearly 10% in the level of payments compared to 2009, which is some 4% above the level proposed by the commission. while i share the wish of the european parliament to support economic growth through the eu programmes, we should also take into account the amount of payments that can be reasonably executed without undermining sound financial management. the commission has no reason at this stage to depart from the estimates made in its preliminary draft budget. concerning the administrative support lines of spending programmes, the so-called ‘ba lines’, i understand the wish of the european parliament to take a quite restrictive approach in the current circumstances. but it is also important to provide the appropriate administrative means for managing growing financial envelopes of programmes if we want this budget to be adequately executed. the commission hopes there will be the opportunity to redress this issue in the second reading. parliament has also voted a number of reserves which, if maintained in the final budget, will have an adverse effect on budget execution. the reserve on salaries, if maintained in the course of the year, would have an adverse effect on recruitment of new officials in 2010 to replace personnel leaving the commission. let me conclude by assuring you that, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement, the commission will give its position on the amendments adopted by parliament in early november through the so-called ‘letter on executability’ and i hope parliament can take it into account in its second reading. the commission will continue to act as honest broker and will do its utmost to help pave the way for a successful outcome to this budget procedure, bearing in mind that the financing of the second tranche of the eerp represents a real challenge for which all efforts should be heading in the same direction. i count on your support for achieving a satisfactory and balanced result there.
opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - madam president, in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs we have worked to strengthen the budget for the area of freedom, security and justice, which is increasing by 13.5% compared to 2009. the chapters on external borders, return, visa policy, free movement of persons, fundamental rights and citizenship are growing in particular. the budget for civil and criminal justice in particular grew by 4.7%. the chapter on security and defence of freedoms, on the other hand, is increased by 95% as a result of the integration of europol into the community budget. it is therefore a new item in relation to the 2009 budget. we have adopted an amendment to increase the budget for frontex in a clear message of commitment to a management of the phenomenon of immigration, of migration flows in all their dimensions, which respects human rights. finally, i think it is also worth noting that in committee we have approved a budget increase of eur 5 million to facilitate the integration of third country nationals, so that in particular the section of title 18 on the area of freedom, security and justice amounts to eur 105 million, which will be used to strengthen the administrative and financial management of the member states.
opinion of the committee on fisheries - madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee on budgets for accepting all the amendments tabled by the committee on fisheries. we are particularly concerned about the amendment calling for greater flexibility in the funding of the regional advisory councils for fisheries, which, in addition to being scarce, is so subject to interpretation and to the commission's arbitrariness that it prevents them from spending even the little they have; this is a request that was transmitted to us in unison by the seven existing councils. the amendment calling for a comprehensive strategy against piracy, which really takes into account the situation of fishing vessels, which are particularly vulnerable to these acts in all the seas of the world, seems particularly timely. as regards research and the seventh framework programme, we have been cautious in asking that, since fisheries research no longer has its own line in the budget, at least the investment rate should not be reduced, since knowledge of the environment and marine species is the basis of all fisheries management decisions, and especially when one of our new objectives is the ecosystem approach applied to all the rules of the common fisheries policy.
madam president, if the treaty of lisbon enters into force, as we all hope, from january, we will have new powers in the area of full budgetary co-decision, including, of course, that which affects agriculture. we in the committee on budgets will probably be happier with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. but with new powers comes new responsibilities. and the new responsibilities affect us all, whether we are members of parliament, whether we are in the council or in the commission. the first of these obligations is to fulfil interinstitutional responsibilities and commitments. i'll mention two. firstly, the financing of the european economic recovery plan. this is a disgrace. we have been negotiating for a year and we have still not been able to secure five billion euros out of a total budget of the european union of more than 130 billion this year. we have not been able to find a solution yet. first, we have lost a budget surplus from 2008 and now we have no funding. if the council tries to save on other items, we will be faced with a serious problem in the negotiations, because the commitment that was made was to finance these activities of the recovery plan with new money. the second of the themes is the milk fund. the principles and requirements of budgetary discipline which require a margin to be left in category ii must be respected. the council and the commission have just agreed to €280 million. i want to ask the commissioner a question, because it is very important here to be sure of what we are going to vote on in two days' time: do those 280 million which we have accepted, which you have accepted, belong to what was not spent in 2009 or are you supposed to be taking responsibility for the money for 2010 which this house has not yet voted on? we think that this is a question which requires an immediate answer from the commissioner. in any case, these 280 million do not belong to the milk fund, but we are talking about a one-off intervention. the milk fund is another long-term intervention involving restructuring and a financial commitment by the commission and the council.
vice-president of the commission. − in my area of responsibility for budget discharge, i will soon appear before parliament and the committee on budgetary control to explain what should be done to protect and to ensure the proper use of european money; these are very large topics. again, if you have any information concerning the misuse of money in cofinanced projects, we would be very happy – as would dg regio and other departments – to receive such information. i can assure you that this information will be handled very seriously. however, as regards the extradition of an individual from one member state to another, this is purely a matter in the hands of member states, and none of the directorates-general in my area of responsibility can do anything to facilitate the extradition of a person for whom this is requested.
vice-president of the commission. − i should like to thank the honourable member for this question, which allows me once again to pay attention to this huge issue which is damaging to the budgets of the member states. this is again a matter where member states act, but where cooperation between member states is vital and also where our service, olaf, is very active and plays an important role in fighting international cigarette smuggling. olaf has a clear strategy. firstly, olaf assists and supports law enforcement authorities throughout the european union with their cases, and organises and coordinates europe-wide operations: operation diabolo in 2007, aimed at counterfeit from china which is smuggled in shipping containers to the eu; operation mudan in 2008, to address the growing problem of smuggling of cigarettes by post; and diabolo ii, which had the same objective as the first operation diabolo, which took place in september 2009. olaf provides intelligence to its partners about the emerging threats and cooperates with member states, so this is really an area of international cooperation. olaf’s work demonstrates that this cooperation should be enforced, but i must also say that there have been two very important events during the five-year tenure of this commission in which olaf has been extremely instrumental. these are the philip morris agreement, and subsequently the japan tobacco agreement in december 2007, where the biggest tobacco corporations admitted that they had some shortcomings in dealing with fair trade in cigarettes, and paid substantial amounts of money to the eu budget; they are also cooperating very closely to fight cigarette smuggling, which is not in their interests either. these were very important achievements, and all member states are signatories to the latest japan tobacco agreement. we continue to cooperate in this difficult field, but i think that with these two big agreements the landscape has changed a little and we notice modest progress. the case referred to by the honourable member, of the prosecution and jailing of a third country national, is a very important case, and this is one of the many international investigations coordinated by the office on the basis of such an agreement. there have been many prosecutions in the eu based on olaf’s work. this is the first prosecution in a third country of a non-eu national directly related to the smuggling of cigarettes into the eu, so it also shows worldwide cooperation. i can produce several other details from liaison officers in china and other places. we all have an interest in enhancing this cooperation and combating cigarette smuggling.
vice-president of the commission. − i recently visited a country outside the european union where smoking is not prohibited, and i really noticed how big a difference there is in the european union where you cannot smell the odour of cigarettes in public places at least. i suppose that this is the most important step to take in order to avoid all health risks. as regards the fight against cigarette smuggling, we must use all our law enforcement agencies. this is clearly the most important priority, but it is again the duty of border guards in the member states to seize illegal cigarettes. i myself have visited a port which has very sophisticated equipment for discovering shipments of illegal cigarettes, but this is the province of each individual member state. we can only facilitate, we can only provide intelligence, and do everything we can to help the member states. it is up to their border services to seize such shipments and stop them at the border.
vice-president of the commission. − i agree that this is a very important issue for the tax authorities. we in europe have quite a substantial excise tax on tobacco products, but as i know from the experience of dealing with the philip morris agreement and the japan tobacco agreement, this involves largely the same corporations, which are our main producers of tobacco. this is also the outcome: that they are cooperating. i do not know about switzerland; we do not have any indications that switzerland is behaving problematically in this field in europe in general. all states recognise the threats from the illegal cigarette trade, so if we have some indications we will definitely be in contact with the swiss authorities.
member of the commission. − thank you for that question because it is very relevant these days. i would like to highlight that, under the umbrella of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, the commission has for several years been pursuing its modernisation agenda for european higher education. this agenda is particularly focused on the three specific areas of curricula, governance and funding. reforms in the area of curricula are largely pursued within the framework of the bologna process, which seeks to create a european higher education area by 2010. as you know, the bologna process is not a commission initiative, but an intergovernmental process of 46 european countries. the commission, however, recognises its utmost importance and has joined the process, and is fully supporting it because of its relevance to its own modernisation agenda for higher education. just to highlight some of the related initiatives over the past year, i would mention the fostering of the knowledge triangle by creating the european institute for innovation and technology, encouragement for recognition of education and training across europe, the introduction of the european qualification framework for lifelong learning, the european credit transfer and accumulation system, diploma supplements and european credits for vocational education and training. one of the goals is also to make european higher education more transparent and comparable, and therefore the projects for classification and ranking of higher education institutions are under way. the commission also recognises the high importance of today’s and tomorrow’s labour markets and the challenges which this brings, especially for the young generation, and we have therefore come up with the ‘new skills for new jobs’ initiative, and the establishment of a university business forum where very important exchanges of views, opinions and experience are taking place both in academia and businesses. regarding the european higher education area, there is consensus among the participating countries that, although a lot has been achieved up to now and since 1999, the project will not come to an end in 2010 but will continue at least until 2020. from the commission perspective, the bologna process should in the coming years focus on how to further promote mobility in higher education, strengthen the social dimension through equitable access to higher education, and develop the global dimension of the process, meaning cooperation between european higher education institutions and their partners worldwide.
mr president, commissioner, today, for the second time, i have the pleasure of asking you questions and hearing your answers. thank you for your words. we are obviously in agreement on the whole bologna process. my question was more about the immediate future and the not so immediate future, because the economic crisis we are experiencing is leading to a whole series of sectors, mature sectors, which are no longer going to generate new jobs. and we're talking about new jobs in a new economy that we call "green" and in many other ways. so my question is: how does this new situation, this new economy which we are trying to put into practice, translate into plans, into studies, both in universities and in vocational training, precisely now that, as you know very well, we have already begun to implement the copenhagen process on vocational training? i'd like to know a little more about your opinion on this.
member of the commission. − i fully understand your preoccupation, but we in the commission have to operate under the very clear rules established, especially for the field of budget allocations and budget disbursement. therefore i was trying in my answer to provide you with possibilities of how we, from the european level, can help slovenian theatre. the only way in which the commission can financially assist in this respect would be if the administration of the theatre could establish cooperation with their neighbours and become active in the cultural programme under the current conditions. this, i think, would be achievable and possible, and i believe it would also be for the benefit not only of the theatres but also for other reviewers and other partners with whom the slovenian theatre would cooperate in the future, because only under these conditions can the commission have a positive look at the financing of these concrete actions, which very clearly describe the element of european value added and european cooperation in this respect. as you know, if we do not have a special budget line for this type of project, we cannot finance them. i fully understand that the debate on this issue is very often very intense, because it really concerns nations, nationality and languages. therefore i think the european parliament is very well placed to debate this issue, as you highlighted in your supplementary question.
the agenda now includes the debate on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (single cmo regulation) (com (2009) 0152 - c7-0223/2009 - 2009/0152 (cns)).
mr president, commissioner, a month ago we were discussing here a resolution of parliament and proposals for intervention in the dairy sector. today we are dealing with two new measures: the amendment to the management of quotas and the amendment to article 186; measures which we are prepared to deal with as a matter of urgency, as you have requested. but, commissioner, the sector needs a global reflection and it is not good that this trickle of proposals is being made on a matter which has been occupying us for several months. we want common european solutions. in this sense, the announced increase in de minimis aid for all sectors will create distortions between member states and make it difficult to apply the cap uniformly. finally, a final thought: the proposal for aid of 280 million is welcome, but i would remind you, commissioner, that this parliament has adopted a resolution calling for an additional fund of 600 million to deal with the crisis in the dairy sector.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are going to take measures aimed at a partial solution to the dairy crisis. we all know the situation of our farmers' livestock farms and what these measures mean for them and their families. our farmers don't want to be constantly subsidized. they ask us to be able to carry out their work in a dignified way, selling their products at respectable, fair prices and in accordance with their effort and investment. commissioner, apart from the impetus and confidence we can give our farmers with these new measures, we are committed to future reforms, to deep reforms which will be raised again in this parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, having listened carefully to the discussion here tonight, i think you might get the impression from some speeches that this is the first step we are taking to help the dairy sector within the european union. nothing could be more wrong. i am quite sure that at least some of you know what has been going on since january this year when we started on the public and private storage, we started intervention, and we started export refunds. we have been taking lots of different measures over the summer so i think we should devise a special study to tell the new members of this parliament exactly what has been going on since last january. on the specific points on the two proposals here today, i have to repeat again that the buy-up scheme is not a new scheme. it is already there for member states to use if they want to help specific dairy farmers out of business. it is an offer, and that is why i do not want to make it compulsory; it is a possibility for helping farmers out of business. the quota they buy out can be kept in the national reserve and distributed at a later stage if member states so wish. this was one part of the discussion. the other part, which has aroused by far the most interest today, is article 186. the reason for introducing dairy farming into article 186 is the fact that we need to be able to react fast. by the way, i do not see any reason why dairy farming should not be part of article 186, as areas specifically within the meat sector are already there. and, in general, those who fear that the commission will get a blank cheque and do whatever they want should keep in mind that article 186 is normally by nature a very positive scheme where it is possible to try to help people who are in difficulties by reacting very fast. so it is not a blank cheque. it will be discussed, as you probably know, in the management committee. i have listened to your ideas concerning a more limited period of three or four years. i think it would disqualify dairy farmers – but of course i have listened to what you say. then i think there are lots of mistaken ideas going round. this eur 280 million is not for restructuring. it simply offers a possibility of paying out very quickly as soon as we have the formalities in place, with the acceptance from the ecofin meeting in november and the signing of the budget for 2010. this means we can act immediately, which would not be the case if we do not have article 186 in place. so it is not restructuring. as i said before, it is gives member states the possibility of paying the most needy from this national budget. how should it be distributed? i have clearly said it has to be on the basis of production. i can hear that there may be other ideas but if we start discussing internally how to distribute then i think it would take at least to the end of next year because there would be so many great ideas we would never be able to find a common line on this issue. i will reply to some of the specific questions. i would like to say that producer organisations are an excellent option. it is actually necessary. i have said that clearly in plenary before, specifically when discussing the fruit and vegetable scheme. if farmers spend their time and efforts competing against each other instead of competing with the strong retail sector, i know who the winners and the losers will be. therefore i say: do work together to be a much stronger body in the whole food chain. i completely agree with you that we have a global problem, that we have one billion people starving, not being able to get what they need to eat every day. that is why i was hurt to see european farmers spreading milk all over the fields in a situation where we are facing starvation problems globally. that is not the best image for european agriculture. i have to say that i am very impressed at the way in which two members, mr bové and mr häusling, managed to gear their speaking time. i noticed very carefully how it was done. i do not know if it is a new procedure of the house that one speaker can substitute for another who then goes in to speak under catch-the-eye. it was quite smart, i would say. (applause)
this point is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that i cannot make my speech in catalan, which, despite being the language of more than 10 million european citizens, is not yet an official language. that's why i speak italian today. the finnish government has recently recognized the right of all citizens to have a broadband internet connection as a universal service. this service is an element of economic development, social justice and territorial balance, because it guarantees access to information by avoiding the digital divide. in the same way, affordable broadband is crucial to building the knowledge economy defined by the lisbon objectives. will the next european council take measures to ensure that the european union as a whole becomes a world example in this respect too?
mr president, the 'yes' vote in the irish referendum makes the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon more credible and imminent than ever, and that is good news because it means that we will finally have institutions that can deal with the issues: first of all, the exit from the crisis and its social dimension, the creation of jobs. but not only that, climate change, energy and fair trade rules must also be on the agenda. but the summit is also an opportunity to prefigure the final push required by the composition of the new commission; we have already heard president barroso anticipate what the criteria will be. i would stress the importance i attach to two: the first, as a member of the socialist group, is that the composition of the commission should be balanced. the socialist group referred to the importance of the high representative coming from this political family, but it is also important, of course, that there should be an equal number of men and women. on the other hand, he also referred to the distribution of portfolios, and he referred to one that is important to me as a jurist committed to freedom and as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and that is the subdivision of the justice and home affairs commission into a commissioner for justice and fundamental rights and another for security. i say that this is not the right solution: the right solution is not to subordinate justice to the importance of security, nor to oppose it, but to create a police station for justice and fundamental rights, a second for home affairs and a third that does not link security with immigration, but separates them, so that there is security in one police station and immigration, asylum and refuge in another, committed to fundamental rights.
mr president, i am referring to the challenges we have to face and overcome in the area of freedom, security and justice: a genuine and common migration and asylum policy; effective external border control; an effective integration policy and also a return policy; a eurojust with credibility and trust; a community europol under the control of the european parliament; harmonious progress in civil and criminal justice; fair, equal and effective transatlantic relations, especially with the united states; a fair solution for swift; an effective data protection policy; better protection of the euro against counterfeiting; and a very strong promotion of the charter of fundamental rights.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
mr sassoli, you have raised a question of inadmissibility and you are relying on rule 157 of our rules of procedure. the presidency - president buzek - has therefore examined this matter in great detail, as you can understand, and its analysis has been based on the following grounds: the amendments 7, 8 and 9, to which you refer, bear a direct link with the text they intend to amend. second, they do not try to suppress or replace the entire text. nor do they alter several paragraphs of the text, nor is it the case that they do not affect all language versions. the president therefore considers that, in strict accordance with rule 157, all the conditions are met for these amendments not to be considered inadmissible. the president shall therefore decide on its admissibility. as regards the mention of president napolitano, our dear and former colleague, the precedents that exist allow us to include names of people 'of the political' in our texts. there are, of course, other ways of following up your request, mr sassoli, which the rules of procedure open up, for example the oral amendment, or, of course, voting against those amendments.
mr sassoli, since you have raised this question and there is a proposal from mr mauro in reply to yours, will you take the floor to answer?
the name of the italian head of state will therefore be withdrawn. - before the vote on paragraph 3:
the voting is closed.
the presidency will certainly take up this matter in order to defend our privileges and immunities.
mr president, i hope that mr berlusconi's crimes will be prosecuted by the courts and that his arrogance in the press will also come to an end. let some of those who did not vote for the condemnation look the other way, because what is happening in italy with freedom is very serious and affects us and concerns absolutely everyone in europe, whatever the outcome of today's vote.
in writing. - i voted against resolution rc7 0088/2009 tabled by the right-wing forces and in favour of joint resolution rc7 0090/2009 by the other groups in the house because i defend freedom of expression and information and media pluralism and because i am concerned about the situation in italy, where there is a conflict of interests between political, economic and media powers, as well as a disturbing concentration of media, both public and private. the italian case is a serious attack on media pluralism and the actions of the right-wing berlusconi government in this respect are intolerable. i believe that this anomalous situation, which can have serious repercussions for the whole of the european union, must be remedied and the independence of the public broadcasters guaranteed and their protection against any kind of governmental interference. i have voted to express my rejection of the pressure and intimidation exerted by the italian authorities on national and european news agencies.
mr president, my group - the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left - will vote against this report, firstly, because we are against the treaty of lisbon. the lisbon treaty, in our view, does not go in the direction of european construction designed by and for citizens, but on the contrary, it protects a model which has entered into crisis, a model which prevents public intervention in the economy. we want to move forward at two speeds: we want to make it very fast so that the european union has a single voice abroad, but the european union does not have its own voice to reactivate the economy with its own instruments, because it does not have a public treasury, it does not have active industrial policies, it does not have the ability to intervene in the price of money and it does not have the control of the european central bank. so we don't share that philosophy. the european council has already decided on the establishment of a european external action service, with a staff of 5,000, on the proposal of the future vice-president, if the treaty of lisbon is adopted, with the approval of the commission and after consultation of parliament. we do not agree with this architecture because it also gives it powers to solve military crises of all kinds. we think there's a lack of control. we believe that control must be a first-class democratic requirement, as it is in any member state. we therefore believe that this philosophy is not in line with the europe our group wants to build: a europe which actually has the capacity to intervene in what fundamentally affects us, which is this economic recession and unemployment figures not seen since the 1930s. that is why we shall vote against this report.
mr president, because the speaker was so kind as to agree to answer a question, i am going to ask one. real madrid, which is a spanish football club, has got a flag and an anthem. do you believe it is a state? (laughter and applause)
madam president, the relationship with the united states is the most important strategic partnership the european union has. the united states occupies a key place in the world and the european union is increasingly a global player. we can and must do many things together, firstly, by taking a lead in shaping the new global world, characterised by new challenges and the emergence of new actors. we need to strengthen our relationship further and equip ourselves with new institutional mechanisms. we are in a good place to do so: an administration in washington committed to multilateralism, a european union strengthened by the treaty of lisbon and the emergence of a new world that we are all interested in shaping together. the resolution we are going to adopt tomorrow is aimed precisely at strengthening the institutional mechanisms, as this parliament called for in its resolution of 26 march. the creation of the transatlantic economic council two years ago was a good decision. but in today's world, we also need excellent political and security coordination. regular meetings of foreign and security policy-makers are needed. that is why this house, this parliament, supports the creation of a transatlantic political council, which should in future include the energy council you want to set up at the next summit. parliament also wants two summits a year. if we have two with russia, why not two with the united states? ladies and gentlemen, there is increasing talk of the united states and china forming a g-2, that is to say, a privileged relationship at the top of the world. i am concerned that the europeans may weaken our privileged dialogue and partnership with the united states. we must explain to them that the union is strengthened in foreign policy by the treaty on european union. the european union, or europe today, is no longer a problem as it was for decades. today, in this complex world, europe must be part of the solution, and i hope the united states understands that. the commissioner has already said that this is a matter for the european parliament, and that is why we must be consistent with the global role we want and that we must live up to the privileged relationship we want with the united states. in short, i believe that a key issue at the next summit should be the objective of strengthening transatlantic relations, also at institutional level.
madam president, commissioner ferrero waldner has referred to the importance of the presence of a delegation from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs at this transatlantic summit between the united states and the european union, and i would like to thank her for the emphasis. as the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i would also like to draw attention, first of all, to the importance of the signing of the two treaties on extradition and mutual legal assistance. a very important effort has been made to strengthen cooperation, not only police but also judicial, by strengthening the link between eurojust and similar institutions in the united states. secondly, i would like to highlight the contribution to the strengthening and launching of the transatlantic dialogue for the next five years and, thirdly, the work of this parliament. i therefore ask you to report back to the next part-session of this european parliament in november on the results of this summit and in particular on this chapter on judicial and criminal cooperation. fourthly, it is clear that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon will mean the start of the area of freedom, security and justice as a new area of european competence, as a new european policy on which this parliament will also decide. and that is why, in sensitive areas such as data protection and the fundamental rights of individuals, the agreements on the passenger name record and swift must always be consistent with the resolutions adopted by this parliament to ensure the protection of personal data and, in particular, with the resolution adopted on 17 september last. finally, we cannot lose sight of the importance of reciprocity, which is far from perfect, in the matter of visas. it is good that we cooperate with the united states on visas, but it is an excellent opportunity to reinforce the importance of reciprocity, to make treaties on an equal footing with the united states.
acting president of the council. - it is very difficult for the swedish presidency to determine exactly when a violation is taking place or not. we have been informed on several occasions of the concern felt by many of my greek colleagues. we have discussed this and we have also called for and held a dialogue with the turkish authorities and their counterparts on this and called on them to work towards better neighbourly relations. it is very difficult for a presidency to determine exactly whether or not a breach is taking place. this is based on international conventions and is a bilateral matter between the two member states.
acting president of the council. - thank you for asking. the council naturally shares the member's concern for the welfare of animals. the presidency replied to a similar question from marian harkin in september and already stated that the swedish presidency aims to promote the debate on animal welfare, which is one of the priorities of our presidency. at its meeting on 7 september this year, the council was informed by the commission that a draft proposal for the revision of regulation (ec) no 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport will be presented shortly. at the same meeting, the council took note of the delegations' comments on the need for new instruments to improve control and inspection of international transport of live animals, such as satellite navigation systems. an effective satellite navigation system could facilitate the supervision of the member states' authorities, because it is very difficult to prove non-compliance with the instruments available today. regulation 1/2005 provides for more robust legislation on the protection of animals during transport for commercial purposes by identifying the parties concerned and specifying their respective responsibilities and introducing reinforced measures in the form of authorisations, inspections and stricter rules for transport. certain aspects of animal transport are not covered by the rules, namely the maximum number of journeys and space requirements for animals. article 32 of the regulation provides that these aspects are to be addressed in a report which may be accompanied by a new proposal within four years. the presidency confirms that we intend to start a review of the commission's proposal for the revision of the regulation as soon as the commission presents the proposal. this has not yet happened, but as soon as it does, the examination will begin, because we share the member's interest in the question of the revision of this regulation.
president-in-office of the council. − i am not an expert in the horse sector of animal transport but i listened to your proposal and i will take it with me. i agree with you that normally it is quite often the case that it is the implementation that is lacking, and there is not always necessarily a need for new regulation. once the commission proposal comes, we will look at it, evaluate it and see if there is a need for additional measures or, as you imply, only a need to reinforce implementation. so we will come back to that as soon as we have the proposal from the commission.
president-in-office of the council. − i realise the difficulties regarding ireland’s situation, because it is an island and because of its dependence as regards transport. i think in all legislation it is important in particular that we have a great concern. we know that there is pressure from our citizens to look at the well-being of the animals, but of course doing this in an appropriate way and evaluating what has been done. are the provisions sufficient? are they needed? is there additional need? do we need implementation? we must take all that into consideration before we move on to further regulation. i am sure that, during the discussion that we will have with member states, all member states will have the opportunity to set out their specific situation as input into the discussion.
president-in-office of the council. − sport activity is subject to the application of eu law today and, as the honourable member rightly points out, when the lisbon treaty enters into force it will provide the eu with a legal basis allowing it to contribute to the promotion of european sporting issues while taking into account the specific nature of sport, its structures, based on voluntary activities, and its social and educational function. however, the council cannot take a view on the internal organisation of the next commission, which in line with the treaty is a matter for the president of the commission. i agree that sport and health go hand in hand. sport activities also promote social cohesion, democracy and personal development. sport is certainly also entertainment, both when the local football club is playing and when there are international competitions. it is my belief that a free and independent sports movement also has a responsibility in societal matters such as public health and safeguarding democratic values. the swedish presidency regards sports policy first and foremost as a national issue. one also has to be cautious with new suggestions and programmes which expand policies at eu level in a way which could damage already well-functioning systems such as the ones civic society has built up over the years.
the first item on the agenda is the oral question to the commission on the problem of limited access to certain vaccines by developing countries, by charles goerens, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-0100/2009 b7-0214/2009).
member of the commission. − i thank the distinguished member of parliament, mr charles goerens, for his question, which gives me the opportunity to address both issues directly related to the h1n1 influenza a pandemic and to address more broadly issues related to the european commission's contribution to improving health systems in developing countries. in the face of the h1n1 influenza a pandemic, the community has responded both internally and externally. in fact, this is a crisis that requires a global approach, both for reasons of effectiveness in protecting our citizens and for reasons of solidarity with the less developed countries. we speak of effectiveness because early warning systems, close monitoring of the evolution of the pandemic and the virus itself, evaluation of the effectiveness of preventive and curative measures in the countries where the pandemic first manifested itself are indispensable elements for preparing and adapting our own responses, but we also speak of solidarity because the union, as the main financer of public development aid and the privileged partner of a large number of developing countries, must stand by these countries to face these new threats. to respond to them, the commission and the union as a whole do not start from scratch. the avian influenza precedent, following the h5n1 virus, has allowed the establishment, together with international organisations such as the world health organisation, the world bank and others, of effective procedures for the exchange of information, for the coordination of technical assistance, as well as financial instruments such as a trust fund at the world bank. as dr. chan, the director general of the world health organization, points out, the world has never been so well prepared for a pandemic. the commission has played and continues to play a particularly important role in these systems, the components of which are now extended to all types of influenza threats. as regards widespread access to vaccine in developing countries, the new influenza pandemic has re-launched the debate that has been ongoing for more than two years within the who and the working group on pandemic preparedness for influenza, a group established at the request of the world health assembly, following the decision of indonesia invoked by the distinguished parliamentarian. in this village in geneva, the who presents its first recommendations from the group in which the community has actively participated. in accordance with the resolution of the world assembly, the final recommendations will have to be presented to the who executive board at the end of january. at that point, the best possible balance will have to be found between, on the one hand, stimulating research and the rapid development of new medical products, which largely come from private sector research, for which intellectual property rights are today the preferred instrument for stimulation, and, on the other hand, equity in access to the products of this research. the european community expresses its reservations about any limitation on the exchange of biological materials necessary for the conduct of research activities. active international collaboration in a transparent manner and under the coordination of legitimate institutions such as who and its network is indispensable for the rapid development and dissemination of pandemic response tools. in the specific case of influenza a h1n1, for which there were no stocks of vaccines, the question of production capacity and the pre-emption of this capacity by massive orders from countries with the necessary means was also raised. the commitment of some vaccine manufacturers and, more recently, of some states to reserve 10% of their production or orders for donations or sale at reduced prices to developing countries is an encouraging sign of global solidarity. the commission believes that aid to third countries to cope with the pandemic is essential and must not be limited to access to vaccines when they become available. it is essential to continue the support for health systems strengthening provided by the commission and the member states in various forms, such as project aid, sectoral or general budget support for partner countries, even support for international organisations. respect for the principle of country ownership of development, as well as commitments to aid effectiveness, will need to be ensured by ensuring, in particular, that attention is maintained on pathologies and priority interventions. the pandemic response is, first and foremost, based on health systems better equipped to identify and treat cases early, to provide equitable prevention tools when they are available. in the event of a severe crisis, the european commission will be able to mobilise its humanitarian and emergency response instruments and will be able to show flexibility in using the funds already allocated to requesting partner countries. in such severe crises, non-governmental organisations and large institutional networks will certainly have a major role to play, and the commission knows that it can count on their mobilisation and effectiveness.
mr mitchell, as regards the question of the elevators which you have raised, i want to reveal to you something which is perhaps a secret of the debates of the bureau of parliament. at the last bureau meeting i denounced the situation you have just described, which unfortunately is not confined to strasbourg: we have also had a few weeks in brussels in which it was really impossible to move between the various labyrinths of our buildings, because the lifts were not working. we shall pass the matter from the bureau to the appropriate services so that the elevator service can be improved in one way or another.
i am pleased to say that i am very happy and very excited to be giving the floor for the first time to someone who has been a great friend and colleague for many years.
thank you very much for your kind words, mr. president. it is my honor to serve in the institution that you are vice president of at this time. i am here to support the interest in this question, which is to support developing countries in preventing and combating the h1n1 pandemic. but beyond this pandemic, i also want to emphasize that diseases today strike the world unequally in developed countries versus developing countries. many diseases that have disappeared from developed countries are still killing tens of millions of people in developing countries. these countries have an obligation to guarantee the health of their inhabitants, the health of their nationals, but they do not have the means to do so. to combat aids, tuberculosis, malaria and other infectious diseases, these countries need vaccines that they do not have today and cannot afford. i encourage the commission, as the commissioner has said, to seek partnerships, to promote programmes, to involve donor countries and to work to ensure that developing countries have access to generic medicines at prices that are affordable to their own citizens.
member of the commission. - in addition to what i said at the beginning of my presentation, i would like to emphasise the following points. the european commission provides ongoing financial support for health in many developing countries through projects, programmes and budgetary aid. in order to respect national priorities, the commission will study with its partners how these means can contribute to strengthening the pandemic response. as i have said implicitly and i repeat explicitly, the european commission does not have the technical and financial means to buy the vaccines itself. however, in close cooperation with the world health organisation and through alliances and agreements with various stakeholders, we will prepare responses to requests together.
this point is closed.
the next item is the commission statement on the economic and financial situation in moldova.
madam president, i want to put my testimony on record. i am in favour of the union's support for moldova in a critical situation. i am in favour of the support of the international monetary fund and the european union: support and urgent financial aid to the moldovan people. i am in favour of political support for the coalition government in chisinau: it opens the door to hope. and that open door has to have financial backing. the moldovans must be able to leave their country and move around, and i am therefore in favour of a proper visa policy. i am also strongly and positively in favour of the association agreement. a hundred million euros is not enough, madam president. immediate and urgent help is desperately needed.
mr president, there has been a mistake on my machine and my intention was to vote against amendment no 444.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on the dairy sector because i consider that the commission's proposal to allocate 280 million to this sector is too late to be implemented this year and is clearly insufficient, so i have given my support to the proposal for 600 million. the inclusion of milk and milk products in article 186 gives the commission delegated powers to the european parliament and the council without specifying in advance what specific action it will take. the measures adopted do not alter the objective of the latest reform of the common agricultural policy, namely the complete liberalisation of the milk market, which our group rejects. these measures favour the agri-food industry and the large distribution chains to the detriment of small and medium-sized producers and contribute to the concentration of production and the increase in profits of this industry, which have multiplied in recent years due to the decrease in the price of milk paid to the producer and the increase in the final purchase price.
in writing. - i voted against the brok report on the european external action service (eeas) because i consider it to be the greatest exponent of the militarization of the european union. the service, which will be deployed after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, covers all aspects of european security and defence policy. according to this report, the eeas and the high representative (also vice-president of the european commission) would assume the tasks of external representation, with a staff of 5,000 officials without any parliamentary control. it concentrates civil and military crisis management and human rights monitoring in the hands of the high representative, who is not accountable to the member states. the eeas is also set up by a decision of the council, with the approval of the commission and after a mere consultation of the european parliament, which shows its undemocratic character. i believe that the external action service is not going in the right direction towards the european construction which our group advocates: a europe designed by and for the citizens, and not the europe which is being built today, which shields an economic model based on the non-intervention of the economy.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on the forthcoming eu-us transatlantic summit because obama, despite the high hopes raised by his arrival in the white house and the historic milestone of his election in a country where racial minorities continue to be discriminated against, has so far only made symbolic gestures. the current us president shares the same economic model of non-intervention in the economy as the previous administration, has continued the same war policy as his predecessor (sending more troops to the war in afghanistan, deploying new military bases in colombia), has not yet proceeded to the closure of guantanamo, nor has he lifted the embargo against cuba. nor has it pressured israel or morocco to apply international law. the united states still applies the death penalty in 38 states, has not ratified the ottawa treaty on arms control and has not ratified the kyoto protocol, which is why i voted against this resolution.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i had the honour of participating in the meeting of the committee on fisheries when it voted, albeit by a very narrow margin, not to renew the fisheries agreement with guinea, precisely because of the massacres, the violations, all the human rights violations that have taken place in recent days and which, to this day, are still pending clarification. i would like the house to ratify that decision today. this decision would send a clear message to both the european institutions and the government of guinea that we are not prepared to contribute with our taxpayers' money to keep a corrupt and criminally responsible government in power. i would be glad if, for once - and i hope this sets a precedent - human lives and human rights were more important than an economic agreement. i would be more than happy to do so because the commission has already done so, the committee on fisheries has done so, and it is time for the european parliament to ratify this decision as well. we therefore have a great opportunity and i hope, as has been said, that article 10 will be retained as it stands. (applause from some seats)
mr president, i would like to take the floor to emphasize first of all what my colleague, mr hautala, has already said: we must take into account the role that the united nations, not only the red cross, but also the united nations, have and should play in this process. but i also wanted to react to what our colleague mr van orden said, because it seems to me completely inappropriate that those of us who try to use a clear instrument, such as the sgp plus trade facility, should be accused of being sympathetic to, or supporters of, the ltte. it's not true! we know that there is an investigation going on right now to determine exactly whether the sri lankan authorities are doing what they have to do to incorporate human rights legislation into their mandates. if this is not done properly, it is absolutely normal and necessary that we should be able to demand that the mandate of the gsp plus be not renewed. so it seems to me that linking that mandate, that request, that request, to sympathy for the ltte is completely inappropriate.
mr president, i would like to raise a point of order: i do not have my voting card with me because there was no vote scheduled at the moment, so please state my willingness to vote in favour of keeping the agenda as it stands. a machine, on this occasion, cannot replace me.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i thank the honourable members very much for their many valuable comments and questions. as someone stated, it has taken quite a while to get 27 member states to ratify. we have been discussing this treaty for many years, and i am always surprised to find that i then get questions on how quickly we can stop living after that constitution, because i must base my work on the treaties. it has been defined there that the decisive bodies for the council president are the prime ministers and heads of state of europe. that is actually what has been put into the treaties. added to that, a problem which is obvious to me is that most of the people that are mentioned are current prime ministers of different european countries. it is actually a tense matter to portray oneself as a candidate for a job you might not get, sending a signal to the people that you are leaving the country and then coming home again and saying, ‘well, i am still here!’ i think we should respect that this is a factor when it comes to this issue. on the high representative, you will have much more transparency, much more discussion, because that will be part of the commission, part of a decision taken after hearings inside parliament. although, to answer mr swoboda, it is clear in the treaty coming into force on 1 december that the high representative goes directly into his or her new job, but has to be part of the commission approved by parliament. this is, of course, complicated but, just to state the obvious as i said the last time, it was never meant to be the way it has now turned out. this was supposed to already be in place before the swedish presidency. it is a much lengthier process than anyone could foresee. on the issue of balancing, because this is something that i also hear, i have just today had the first round of consultations with my 26 colleagues. the problem is that it is a lot of balancing for only two persons. you mentioned geography and gender, but the number-one balancing that i am listening to is between centre-left and centre-right. there is a lot of balancing to do, and i would have liked more positions to be able to satisfy all the criteria that have been mentioned here. to say the obvious, it is not that we are not trying to find the best possible balance. as i said, this will be next thursday at our summit meeting with an early dinner to meet all your requests for as quick a process as possible. that is what we have been trying to do. there were comments on who is taking this decision. it takes a little while just to consult everyone. we are now eu-27. full consultation with my colleagues involves two days’ work – this is fantastic, but it takes time. on climate, i agree with rebecca harms that europe is not doing enough. i also want to remind you that we have foreseen a situation where we need to increase our efforts in europe within legally binding targets, but there is a need for conditionality. this reflects the views of many of my colleagues. they are very precise that, if we should go even further in europe, we also need the same kind of commitments from other parts of the world. i welcome country- or nation-based decisions which have gone further. we have many examples of that. my country for instance, sweden, has taken a national target of a 40% reduction until 2020, and this is true for germany as well. we need to do more – and we are not the ones asking to dilute the decision we need to take in copenhagen – but a lot of work needs to be done to get others to move. as i said, i am back from my travels to india and the united states, and am going to china later in this month, and we need leadership agreement to get this going. that is the tough thing with this. it is a global challenge in a world where we do not have the kind of global leadership or decision-taking that we have in the european union. it is therefore much tougher to deliver, but at the same time we need to do it. the european union, as you know, only accounts for 13% of global emissions. we cannot solve this on our own: we also need commitment from others, especially the major emitters, and they are the ones who seem to be raising their hands and saying we want to be outside of the agreement. that is not possible, as we could never then deliver on the 2°c target. finally, during the swedish presidency, we will now try to push through the better supervision of the financial market that is needed to get better functioning financial markets for the future. we will also start discussions that will continue into the spanish presidency – on competitiveness, on how to get better functioning labour markets, and on how to get out of the crisis once we see clear signs of recovery. this, then, is a balance between learning from the problems we had and creating better-functioning financial markets, but also the discussions and the decisions needed to get better competitiveness and better-functioning labour markets here in europe.
president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to comment briefly on some of the issues that were directly put during the debate. first of all, regarding climate change, let us be clear. the european union is committed to a binding treaty. we have been committed to the kyoto protocol and have ratified it. all of our member states have ratified kyoto, and we are in favour of a binding treaty for the future. if there is anyone who does not want a binding treaty, it is not the european union. but the reality is that some of our most important partners are simply not ready for it, so there are two possibilities. one is to insist on something that we know is not going to work, another is to try to have the most advanced and ambitious outcome at copenhagen. i believe it is still possible, and we will fight for it. to have the most ambitious possible agreement at copenhagen and – at least for the european commission, and i am sure the heads of state and government agree – we will remain committed to a binding treaty that sets clear targets for the developed countries and clear actions for the developing countries, including the fast-growing, big emerging economies that also have a responsibility to share. we also need to provide funding to the developing countries – especially the poorest and the least developed countries – because we know very well that, without that support, they will not be able to make the adaptation and mitigation efforts that are needed. en ce qui concerne la question institutionnelle, soyons absolument honnêtes entre nous. nous sommes maintenant à la veille de l'entrée en vigueur d'un nouveau système qui est extrêmement exigeant. la plupart d'entre nous ont beaucoup lutté pour avoir ce traité, pendant de nombreuses années, au moins pendant neuf ans! après nice, on voulait un traité plus ambitieux, et maintenant nous devons le mettre en place. c'est complexe, parce que notre union est complexe, c'est une union d'états, une union de citoyens. mais l'essentiel c'est précisément le respect des traités. nous sommes une communauté de droit, et le jour où notre engagement à l'égard du plein respect du traité faiblira, nous manquerons, bien sûr, à nos devoirs. c'est pourquoi il est essentiel dans cette transition – et quand on mettra en place le nouveau traité – qu'on respecte les traités et les compétences de chaque institution: les compétences du parlement, bien sûr, les compétences du conseil, les compétences de la commission. moi, je suis de ceux qui pensent que l'europe n'avance pas lorsqu'une institution construit son pouvoir et son autorité contre les autres. je trouve que c'est une erreur. je trouve que la jalousie institutionnelle c'est le propre des médiocres. je crois, bien au contraire, que nous serons plus forts si nous nous renforçons mutuellement. je crois que nous avons tout à fait intérêt à avoir un parlement européen fort – et le traité de lisbonne lui donne des compétences accrues – mais aussi un conseil européen avec un leadership consistant et cohérent dans la durée, et une commission forte. d'ailleurs, d'après les traités, et je cite le traité de lisbonne – parce que nous en parlons tout le temps, mais il faut aussi parfois le lire –, article 17, c'est la commission qui "promeut l'intérêt général de l'union et prend les initiatives appropriées à cette fin. elle veille à l'application des traités ainsi que des mesures adoptées par les institutions en vertu de ceux-ci". c'est-à-dire que c'est à la commission de vérifier si les traités sont ou non appliqués, y compris pendant cette transition. c'est un pouvoir que le traité donne à la commission et que la commission va bien sûr exercer en matière de compétences. ceci dit, il faut travailler en termes de partenariat pour renforcer les institutions européennes. si nous n'avons pas des institutions qui fonctionnent, qu'est-ce qui va se passer? les états membres – surtout certains états membres – auront tendance à prendre leurs décisions en dehors des institutions. est-ce ce que nous voulons? je ne le crois pas. nous voulons que les décisions soient prises dans le cadre institutionnel, dans le cadre d'une communauté de droit, et c'est ça que j'aimerais vous dire de façon très franche et très sincère: renforçons mutuellement nos institutions. nous avons écouté aujourd'hui le plaidoyer extraordinaire de václav havel. c'est extraordinaire effectivement, mais comme le disait jean monnet, rien ne se fait sans les hommes, rien ne dure sans les institutions. il nous faut maintenant mettre en place des institutions fortes, et cela ne peut se faire que dans cet esprit de partenariat. c'est pourquoi, entre autres, je tiens à vous remercier pour vos suggestions concernant l'organisation et la structure de la commission. je suis, comme vous, très attaché à la méthode communautaire et au traité, qui prévoit une répartition claire des responsabilités. la responsabilité de l'organisation de la commission incombe au président d'après le traité, et je n'ai nullement l'intention d'y renoncer. quand je présenterai la commission, je ferai donc comme tous les auteurs modestes: je remercierai tous ceux qui m'ont conseillé, tout en acceptant la responsabilité entière pour le produit final. et aujourd'hui j'ai écouté de bonnes et intéressantes suggestions, mais l'essentiel c'est de comprendre cela: chacun doit exercer ses responsabilités dans le respect des autres institutions en ayant, bien sûr, la plus haute considération pour l'intérêt général européen.
mr president, the president of the european commission was saying that he congratulated mr reinfeldt on having brought the ship to safety: the ship of the lisbon treaty. i said in this house two years ago that i feared that the treaty of lisbon could end up like the fish in hemingway's novel the old man and the sea, which after a long struggle came to the port practically with thorns. i am not saying that the treaty of lisbon has come into the port with thorns, but that the essential points are there. thank you, mr reinfeldt, and thank you, cecilia. i must also tell you that i think what they have done, seeking compromise with the president of the czech republic, is the right thing to do. many of us in this house have been disturbed by the president of the republic's actions, but there is a spanish poet who says: 'after all, it was all for nothing'; that in the end the important thing is that the treaty is in force and that we are now thinking about the implementation of the treaty. i am not going to give you any advice, mr barroso, on how you should make up your commission, not least because i respect the autonomy and independence of the president of the commission, who has had a large vote to do so. when you present your college and the division of responsibilities, we will tell you whether we are for or against or not, but today you have our full support. i am not going to give any advice to the president-in-office of the council either, but if i may, i would like to remind you of something that happened during the work on the constitutional treaty. in the first draft, which created the figure of the president of the council, there was a proposal for that president of the council to be a prime minister who had been in office for at least two and a half years (jokingly, mr reinfeldt, we called it the 'bruton clause' after john bruton, because john told us that he had been in office for two years and seven months and therefore could take up the post). well, then we take that reference back and say, "mr duff agrees", and we take it back because we ask ourselves in this parliament: what does the dna of a prime minister have that the rest of us mortals don't? why does the president of the council have to be a prime minister? look for the best, mr reinfeldt, the person who can best represent moral authority, the compromise maker in europe. and we have given them a weapon, mr reinfeldt, the weapon is that the choice of the president of the council must not be made by unanimity but by a qualified majority. so yes, consensus if possible; if not, use the qualified majority to find the best president of the council.
mr president, having overcome the anxiety generated by the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, i think it is time to think about the future treatment of the nationalist attitudes which are so much a hindrance to the construction of europe. my point is that these hindrances cannot come for free. with a cool head, it is time to think about the possible measures to be taken in the days and years to come. this modest member wants a future president of the council who is a man, or rather a woman, who is convinced of european federalism, who is in charge of the euro, who is in the schengen area and who feels identified with and committed to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
mr president, i would like to make two assessments of two aspects of the european council conclusions from the point of view of the presidency of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and, consequently, of the assessment of the area of freedom, justice and security. the first is on immigration: i welcome the fact that immigration has been a major issue in the council's conclusions and i attach importance to the fact that immigration policy will, for the first time, be a community policy and will be the subject of an initial evaluation during the spanish presidency involving the role of the european parliament and the national parliaments. but at the same time, as there is a reference to solidarity in aspects of the management of migration flows, i regret that it has not been made under the solidarity clause binding on its respective financial impact. the second concerns the institutional dimension of the area of freedom, justice and security, because it will mean a before and after in the work of this parliament. finally, community policy; finally, the european parliament deciding on it. the european citizens have a right to expect a great deal from the conclusions of the european council, which will conclude the swedish presidency on 10 december, insofar as the area of freedom, justice and security is finally to be established as a major area of action, genuinely european and genuinely humanitarian, with the adoption of the stockholm programme, to which the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs is making a decisive contribution with the report it will adopt this week.
mr president, i think that the agreement on the czech problem was a sufficient solution; it was not perfect, but it was the best solution that was necessary for such a serious problem. i believe that 2010 can be a great year for europe. a new college of commissioners is entering the office, a new organisational chart is being drawn up to guide the european union, a new legal status is being established: the european union is one, it is the european union, with its legal personality, and not a sum of nations. now we have, as has been said, the possibility of doing and we need the will to do. i believe that europe needs to overcome these very serious currents of nationalism which are preventing it from moving forward. if we think about how we would have progressed, ten years ago, towards the european union with the euro if we had not given up the franc, the mark, the peseta... for some of this has to be recreated in the european spirit, as mr barroso said. i want to say two things that i think are necessary. one urgent point: the college of commissioners must be approved in strasbourg in december. i think it is very important that the next presidency, in january, takes office with this new path - with a new college of commissioners - already at the end of this year. and then i care about claiming the what of the european union, the will for what? i believe that important decisions are being made at the world's great tables, and europe must have a united voice, a strong voice to defend what is proper to our project: a social model and a new legal, economic and political architecture for a world with more states and a better market. more voice, more unity and more strength for europe.
madam president, the relationship with russia is very important: it is a permanent member of the security council and a military power; its cooperation is necessary to deal with the nuclear challenge of iran, the problem of the middle east, disarmament, climate change, etc. russia is also a european neighbour with which many of the member states of the union have important economic relations and a strong energy dependence; it is a country with which we have two regular annual summits (it is a good time, by the way, to assess the state of the relationship). we are now negotiating a new partnership agreement, which would increase cooperation in the so-called four common areas. the first of these areas - for me - is the economic and energy sector: we need openness, clear rules, guarantees for investment, and russia must first join the wto. the summit next week should therefore be an opportunity to clarify russia's intentions on the wto and to ensure that it does not pursue initiatives which are incompatible. the gas supply crisis of recent years should not be allowed to recur and the new agreement must incorporate the principles of the european energy charter, which, as has already been said, is the treaty from which moscow has unfortunately withdrawn. we must also continue to work in the other three areas, as i have already mentioned, russia's importance as a global player. ladies and gentlemen, we can do many things together with russia, but as has also been said, there is one aspect of the relationship which we cannot forget, since russia is a european country and a neighbour: i am referring to the necessary respect for human rights and the obligations which, in this matter, membership of the council of europe imposes on it. one of the most visible shortcomings of the union's foreign policy is the lack of a common policy towards russia. the instruments of the lisbon treaty will make it easier to create such a common policy, but we also need the member states to have a genuine will to create such a unitary policy and not to continue to favour bilateral channels with moscow, which sometimes openly differ.
mr president, commissioner, we are talking about the services directive. the aim of this directive was to give substance to the fourth fundamental freedom of the european construction project, which is commemoration. it has been three years since it was adopted, and the deadline for member states to adapt their national legislation and remove the obstacles has now been met. after this time, it is time to assess and know how we are, who has transposed or who has not transposed, and under what conditions. but my question is whether the commission considers that a greater level of harmonisation would be necessary and, if so, whether it intends to propose any legislative initiative in relation to such an important directive on services, which seeks to harmonise the market and the rights of consumers, citizens and workers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on medium-term financial assistance to member states' balance of payments and social conditionality, by tatjana ždanoka and jean lambert, on behalf of the green group, alejandro cercas, on behalf of the s&d group, marian harkin and elizabeth lynne, on behalf of the alde group (o-0102/2009 - b7-0215/2009).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. and it is a fact, not an opinion, that on 24 april this year parliament adopted a legislative resolution on the occasion of a reform of regulation (ec) no 332/2002 which, in the light of article 100 of the treaty, regulates these financial instruments. in that resolution, mr commissioner, parliament was in favour of this aid, of addressing the specific problems of public finances in the states most affected by the financial crisis, it was strongly expressing its solidarity, especially with the states which have recently joined the union, but at the same time, mr commissioner, parliament was clearly saying that this aid should be conditional and it was pointing out four criteria, which are the community objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, if these are good objectives for us, they must also be respected in these countries. a few months have passed and we have received a number of reports from ngos, trade unions and citizens on one of the four countries which have received aid in very large amounts - €6.5 billion, €3.100 billion, €2.2 billion, €5 billion - to support their public finances. and they give us figures like the ones the honourable member has just quoted: 40% cuts in the education sector; 10% cuts in the pension scheme; cut in half of the sickness benefit... in the face of this reality, mr commissioner, parliament at least wants our silence not to be interpreted there - as it is being interpreted - as if we were imposing these measures; at least we should not be complicit in this interpretation that it is europe that is attacking those most needy sections of the population. and if possible, commissioner, we must avoid the weakest paying for the adjustment.
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all i want to say that i fully agree with the conditions which the european parliament has approved; that is what the commission is doing: when it lends money to these three member states using the balance of payments facility, what the commission is doing is borrowing money from the markets, lending it to them on exactly the same conditions - which are much more favourable conditions for these countries than they could get by going directly to the market to borrow - and putting conditions on them to get the money back to us, but we take into account the four conditions which you have mentioned and which this parliament has approved. we agree with them fully. but when this resource is used, the balance of payments facility cannot be assimilated - and i understand that in some of your speeches you tried to do so - to what is a use of budgetary resources (structural funds, cohesion funds, other types of programmes, aid) and what is a loan to solve a financial problem in a country. the problem for latvia, as was the problem for hungary or the problem for romania, is that they have to go to that balance of payments facility because they cannot go to the markets to borrow to finance their financial needs. that's the problem. we are not talking about a programme for a specific activity or for specific programmes, we are talking about countries which are in financial difficulty, partly as a result of the crisis, but much more so than other countries in objectively similar conditions as a result of previous mismanagement. and please do not hold the commission, the european parliament or the council of ministers responsible for the mismanagement of some governments in some member states. it's not our responsibility; our responsibility is to try to help solve a financial problem. partly, that financial problem is a balance of payments problem that has to do with the borrowing of the private sector, which has to repay some amounts or repay debts and has no ability to finance itself to do those operations, and partly, sometimes, it is a need of the public sector. in the case of the public sector's need to finance its public debt, there is more capacity to set concrete conditions, and that is what we are putting, believe me. i was still trying to convince a representative of the latvian government here in brussels the day before yesterday that the measures they are going to include in the 2010 budget should be more progressive. but do not ask the commission to force a country to pass a tax reform that it does not want to pass; for better or for worse - you know it as well as i do - we do not have that capacity. what is our alternative, then, as representatives of the european citizens? let that country fall into a problem of insolvency? that it defaults on its commitments to the outside world, whether public or private debt? that these financial problems should force that country to devalue its exchange rate by 25 or 30%, which would immediately impoverish households, businesses and the public sector that are indebted in foreign currency? i'm sure you don't want that, and neither do i. those are the conditions we're moving in. i agree with all your analyses: those of mr de rossa, those of mr cercas, mrs berès, all of you; of course i agree with them. but the reality of a country like latvia or a country like romania, at the moment, is more complex than that. please put yourself in the position of having to act on behalf of all of you to lend or not to lend to a country which cannot borrow on the markets as most member states can or as the most industrialized countries can. that's the situation. and that's what we're trying to solve by meeting the four conditions that you've put forth and that i share.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the commission statement on the political situation in honduras with a view to the elections on 29 november 2009.
member of the commission. − mr president, we are here today to discuss the important latest developments in the political crisis in honduras. four months after the removal of president zelaya, the political crisis in honduras unfortunately still remains unresolved, despite the agreement that was signed on 30 october by the committees representing the president and the de facto government. the implementation of the so-called san josé agreement, which should provide the necessary framework and conditions to restore democracy and the constitutional order in honduras, has not progressed after the national unity government nominated on 5 november was rejected by president zelaya. in addition, the congress has still not decided on his reinstitution, which is threatening recognition of the legitimacy of the general elections on 29 november – the key element for exiting from the crisis. therefore, together with the presidency, we have urged all parties to implement without further delay all the provisions of the agreement as a precondition for the return to normal of our relationship, including our development cooperation. the european commission to date has fully supported the mediation and facilitation efforts made by costa rican president, oscar arias, and by the organisation of american states and the measures implemented by the international community to exert pressure on the parties to find a peaceful solution. the ambassador of the eu presidency was recalled for consultations and all other eu ambassadors have also left the country. budgetary support payments, as well as development cooperation – with the exception of cooperation with the civil society and that of a humanitarian nature – have been suspended. in addition, the foreseen electoral observation mission for the general elections on 29 november was cancelled. we are taking this crisis very seriously as it represents a step backwards, in democratic terms, not only for honduras and the rest of central america, but for the whole of latin america. i want to reiterate here today that the commission will support the normalisation of the political situation in honduras, and for this we need the parties to adhere to the agreement. although, owing to the limited time available, it is no longer possible to send an electoral observation mission, the commission did send two election experts, seconded to the ec delegation as of 9 november, for a five-week period with a mandate to report on aspects of the electoral process and to advise on possible post-electoral actions as well. should the political situation allow for more active engagement in support of the electoral process, the commission has also envisaged financial support to the election tribunal under a contract with undp. the commission also stands ready to provide financial support to oas if the conditions for the electoral observations are there. we are continuing to monitor the situation, and support all efforts in order to help re-establish democracy in honduras.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i have already prepared the speech on behalf of the socialist group. the breakdown of the constitutional order in honduras breaks two decades without coups in latin america and creates a perverse precedent for other countries, especially the weakest, as is the case now of paraguay. the european parliament cannot and must not remain deaf and dumb to such a violation of the rule of law. both the council and the commission have unequivocally condemned the coup, supporting the mediation of president arias in line with the position unanimously adopted by the oas with the support of the united nations. the self-proclaimed de facto president micheletti has broken the agreements recently reached, mocking the international community and, among other measures, preventing the return to the presidency of the deposed president, mr zelaya. in the present circumstances, the election of a new president in the elections scheduled for 29 november is illegitimate in origin, and its results cannot and should not be recognized by the international community. the european parliament would be making a serious mistake if it sent a delegation to observe the elections, because that would be interpreted as an endorsement of the coup d'état; the oas has already ruled out sending an observation mission to these elections. this parliament has been a guarantor of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. as václav havel said this morning, there can be no two weights or two measures. we are all democrats here and therefore freedom fighters, so whether we are talking about cuba, china, north korea or, now, honduras, our speech must be firm against the freedom killers. let us not be blinded by our ideological preferences. there are no coup plotters or dictators of the right or the left, only liberticides and repressive. we are very much afraid that things will not change in honduras and that a very dangerous precedent will have been set and the doctrine of a good, temporary and not too bloody coup will have triumphed.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, on october 30th the parties to the conflict signed an agreement, the san josé agreement, and decided that by november 5th a government of national unity and reconciliation would be created and that congress would return zelaya until the end of the current government period, on january 27th 2010. but what happened? that mr. micheletti has tried to form a unity government without mr. zelaya's participation and congress has delayed the vote to not restore him to power. micheletti has not kept the agreement and this situation is getting worse. there is a call for elections and candidates who withdraw, as we are seeing in all the media, because they understand that there are no democratic conditions to hold them. there are also situations of violence: just today we heard of the shooting deaths of a mayor of the opposition party and of a guard. international involvement is still necessary and we support the statements made by the secretary-general of the organization of american states, by president lula, and by the united states mediation mission, and also by the mediator, mr arias. we therefore demand that the agreements be respected and that mr zelaya be returned so that democracy, institutional legitimacy and coexistence among hondurans can be restored. we ask the parties to show generosity in resuming dialogue, although the oas has already said that this is becoming increasingly difficult; and europe, mr president, must join in the international pressure on the coup plotters by using all the diplomatic and political actions at its disposal to promote the agreement.
mr president, commissioner, i congratulate the european commission and the council because they have achieved unanimity, together with the international community, in a very firm position of condemnation of the coup d'état, of the military coup, making any international measure conditional on the unconditional return of president zelaya. i deeply regret that this parliament has not yet condemned the military coup. i would point out the responsibility of the main parliamentary group in europe, the group of the european people's party, which, even in today's speeches, continues to say that the coup plotters are the same as the legitimate government. it is unacceptable that this parliament has not condemned the military coup. i therefore agree that observers cannot be sent, that the result of the november elections cannot be recognised, because they are being held in conditions of lack of freedom and with a legitimate president being held hostage in the brazilian embassy.
mr president, i would like to see some speeches of denunciation and firmness against honduras by some members of the left in this parliament used with the same force to condemn what is happening in cuba, or what chavez is doing in venezuela and in latin america, because, unfortunately, some people yearn for and support the berlin wall, the purges of stalin and even the mummy of lenin more than democratic elections in a country, as is the case in honduras. that said, in the run-up to the elections, it is worthwhile to reflect seriously on what has happened to him in this central american country. in honduras, the presidential elections were called 16 months ago, mr president. the magistrates of the electoral tribunal, the body in charge of electoral management had been appointed before june 28 and had therefore been appointed under zelaya's mandate, and the six presidential candidates passed a primary procedure, and most of the candidates want the elections to be held in honduras. so, what are some people basing their refusal to recognize the electoral process on, if it was the natural outcome, with or without zelaya in power in honduras? on 30 october, negotiators from both sides committed themselves, through the signing of an agreement, to seek a way out of the crisis. the agreement contained a number of key points which were supported by both parties. it so happens that the negotiators of the deposed president zelaya did not even fix who should preside over the unity government. it is therefore clear that the european people's party is in favour of holding elections in a transparent, democratic and free manner, and we are going to support them with observers from our group who are going to go, as the ombudsman, the president of costa rica, óscar arias, asked us to do. and we are going to do just that, because the international ombudsman, oscar arias, is also asking for it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to express my extreme concern at the suspension of the san josé agreement. at the meetings of the euro-latin american parliamentary assembly held in panama at the end of october, we reiterated our condemnation of the military coup and our support for the mediation efforts of the oas. we must urgently renew our call for peace and dialogue. the situation in honduras is critical, not only politically but also socially and economically. problems such as poverty, the economic crisis and external debt cannot afford a further delay in the process of resolving the political conflict. at this time, more than ever, the european parliament must demonstrate its unconditional support for democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights by restoring mr zelaya as a sine qua non condition for the legitimization of the electoral process.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will be relatively brief – not because i do not recognise the importance of the issue, but rather because of the lateness of the hour. i have listened with great interest to the passion with which honourable members have spoken and the concerns that have been raised about the relationship that we need to have in the short term with this extremely poor country that, frankly, needs to move back to normality as quickly as possible. the concern that honourable members from different persuasions have about making sure that the role that we play in the european union in the forthcoming elections and the weeks ahead is the right one. that i will take back and will deliberate on with colleagues. not surprisingly, it is very important, in my view, that we continue to monitor the situation in honduras very closely to make sure that we are aware of what is happening and to take the necessary measures and provide the support to try and get to a peaceful solution to this crisis as quickly as we possibly can. as i said, this is a poor country. the resolution of this crisis is long overdue, and i very much welcome the support of honourable members to the commission for the work that we are trying to do to reach that conclusion and to play our part in making sure that honduras is able to get back to stability as quickly as possible.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the commission statement on 'made in'.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank everyone who has contributed to what is an important debate on this issue. if i might begin with ms muscardini’s particular points – the feeling that this has dragged on for some time. in my time as a commissioner, i have been very conscious of talking with member states about the issues that they are most concerned with and have tried to react when i could see an issue of importance. but, as other members have said, the reality of political life is that i have to get any proposal through the council. that means – when it is clear that there is not a solid majority for a particular idea – thinking again about what it is that might make the difference between failing to get something through, where clearly there is a very strong set of views, and success. it seemed to me that we had the opportunity, by refining what we were describing in order to address the concerns that member states had, to promote this yet again, because it still rests within the commission. especially when a commission is coming to the end of its life and is now, of course, beyond – some might say – the end of its life, it is important to reflect back on what has not yet been completed. i cannot give time guarantees; i would like to, but i am in the hands of the council inevitably on that. but i do make my commitment to carry on with this, because there is a strength of feeling. i will come on to what i think and why i think that is so important. a number of honourable members have raised the particular issues about consumers and the opportunity that this would afford for transparency and clarity – to give information to consumers. i think even adam smith was quoted in that. it is important that, if you are going to have free trade in the world, you also have to have clarity and transparency for consumers to make the kinds of choices that go alongside free trade. those concepts go hand in hand, and i would agree with that. therefore, i think that those honourable members who raised that point actually get to the heart of what this is trying to do. it is not about protectionism. this happens all over the world. for most of the countries from which one would buy the kind of products we have listed, you already know where you buy from. as a consumer myself, it matters to me to know where the product is made. i think for many consumers this has been an important part of the way in which they interact with the market. the opportunity to say that we will make sure that we have that transparency, i would argue, is very important. we should not be frightened of it, because, if we are frightened of it, there is something wrong. the point about openness and free trade and transparency is that you face that and actually deal with it appropriately. specifically, mr schlyter asked me about the expanding of the list. well, it is subject to further discussion: there is not a final list at all. we have simply tried to put forward what we believe is a realistic list but are very comfortable in actually discussing that further. i think that it is only right that i also address the concerns that have been raised about whether we are being ambitious enough. mr arif said that we should not water this down. of course – but i am not trying to water down; i am trying to be realistic. if, in the end, i have a proposal that i simply do not have the capacity to put through the council, i think it is beholden on me to look again and ask whether there are there things we could do, not to water down but to recognise the legitimate concerns and see whether we can put this through, perhaps in a pilot model or a more narrow model in order to test that what i say is true and in order that we can then hopefully broaden out later, because we have actually got an understanding of what it is we are trying to do. we are looking at the whole euromed issues as well. that is part of the discussion, as you know, that is currently going on. i also take the point about what we are trying to do in terms of protection of jobs. honourable members will know that i have made much about the difference between protectionism and support for industry, support for jobs and consumers and so on. we have got to be clear that trade is not about ignoring all of those things. they go hand in hand. mr fjellner, i have got to deal with your particular point, because you described what i was doing as an improper way of acting. i am not quite sure how parliamentary it is in the european parliament to describe somebody as behaving improperly, but let me assure that i am not seeking in any way to do that. it is not about any link to anything. what i tried to do while i was talking to member states about all of these aspects of trade was to pick up, either by the work i had been doing – and specifically, talking to small businesses across europe, where i have a great concern that they should have real opportunities so that more than 3% of them will start trading beyond the european union – issues that are either left over – things that we have not resolved one way or the other – or indeed where countries feel particularly strongly. this is not the only issue, by any means, but it did occur to me that this is an opportunity to try and bring this back. it is about the level playing field. it is about clarity and transparency for consumers. it is about saying that we need to move forward. i hope parliament will engage with this and help refine this further so that we actually have something extremely positive to take back. very finally, i was asked specifically about the question of ‘made in the european union’. we did consult industry and consumers on that. it did not find favour. there was a concern that that would be expensive. it was not what was being looked for and so we have not pursued that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
mr president, as a member of the committee on petitions i would like to add a few remarks on the amendment proposed by our group to the paliadeli report on the annual activities of the european ombudsman. in our view, the definition of maladministration in the resolution, far from increasing and strengthening the role of the ombudsman, may result in the opposite: firstly, because the proposed definition, which is excessively lax and imprecise, makes it difficult to determine the cases in which the ombudsman can or should intervene and therefore weakens his capacity to intervene; secondly - and perhaps even more importantly - the current definition gives the ombudsman a capacity to intervene which other institutions can easily regard as discretionary, because it is not properly defined and regulated. for these reasons, we believe that the definition of maladministration contained in our amendment, in the amendment of our group of the greens/european free alliance, which is more detailed and concise, is a much more appropriate basis for active and effective intervention, and also for it to be more easily understood by the institutions and the citizens.
mr president, allow me to begin by congratulating mrs paliadeli on her report, first to the committee on petitions and now to the house. i would also like to add my support to the comments made by my colleagues from the people's group, mrs gruny and mrs mazzoni, which were very correct, but i would like to add that the role of the ombudsman, mr president, is essential in a democratic institution. and we have seen this in the committee on petitions, in the many appearances of mr diamandouros to present his annual reports, such as the one we are examining here today, or other reports of his mandate. i will not bore you with figures, ladies and gentlemen, but it is true that although progress has been made in the role of the ombudsman, if we were to conduct a survey among european citizens on the role of the ombudsman, on his work, on his activities, we would unfortunately find that the perception of the citizens is still distant and unknown in many cases, perhaps because the decisions of the ombudsman are not binding, as he himself recalled here, or perhaps because his work is very limited with regard to the states, as mr diamandouros himself recalled in this house. but if we want to serve the citizens, this institution, the european parliament and the committee on petitions must make an effort to strengthen and facilitate the work of the ombudsman, because, although it is true that there are many petitions, as has been mentioned here, especially because of the lack of transparency, i am sure that good information - such as the new website that is already in operation, which i welcome - would contribute much more - i stress this - to the objective which i think will be common to all, that all citizens of the european union can know and address the ombudsman. that is why i wish the ombudsman every success, because his successes will be the successes of european citizenship.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mr lamassoure for his report. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty will modify the rules in the budget sector, with the european parliament and the council as co-deciders on an equal footing on all expenditures. it will imply a new legal framework which will require careful consideration between the institutions. as our common responsibility is to ensure that the budget processes and operations run continuously and smoothly, i share the rapporteur’s views that we need to agree on transitional guidelines urgently. these transitional rules are of a rather technical nature and they will only be in force until the new legal framework enters into force. the rapporteur has identified the right issues to be discussed in his report. we will need new rules to operate transfers and new rules to adopt amending budgets. we will need a timetable that will allow an adequate involvement of all actors. we will also need to agree on clear collaboration principles and, if necessary, we will need some rules on provisional twelfths. i can confirm here that i am ready to make the necessary suggestions in order to reach a balanced agreement. i propose that we start discussing these issues in the trialogue that we will have this afternoon. i hope the three institutions will be able to reach an agreement during the november conciliation.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, lisbon will bring many changes, but few will be as dramatic as those in the budgetary procedure. any general rapporteur on budgets knows how the current strategy of two-round negotiations works: obviously, to do it in one round will involve an extra effort of cooperation and agreement between the various institutions. this new situation is already having an impact on the current negotiations on the budgetary procedure and on the conciliation procedure next week, because we know that this will be the last time that it will be carried out in the present form. i would like to congratulate the executive committee on the speed and flexibility with which it has presented these transitional rules to us. the next few months will be crucial in budgetary policy: there will be urgent transfers; there will be urgent amending budgets which will arrive in the next few months and which will have to be met by a new procedure; and there will have to be a debate, among other things, on an amending budget for budgetary balances with a new procedure which will require a great deal of responsibility from all the institutions. my group is of the opinion that we will all have to make an extra effort with regard to these transitional rules, but in particular the future presidency of the council will have a very important role to play, especially in maintaining the current 'gentlemen's agreement'. the council may be tempted to try to play its own game on very urgent budgetary matters, such as the european external action service, but obviously the three institutions will be on an equal footing and there will be a great sense of responsibility on the part of parliament.
as has already been said, mr president, the treaty of lisbon is finally coming into force and some of the effects of its coming into force will be felt immediately after its signature; for example, some of the work of the committee on budgets will have to be governed by new rules as from next january. and so the three institutions are already working on establishing provisional rules governing our work while the new regulations provided for in the treaty are being debated and adopted. mr lamassoure's report has our full support. we do not think that anything can be added to what it says. i only hope that in the dialogue that will be opened up between the three institutions, common sense will prevail and that no one will try to tip the balance in their favour. if i may, i would like to make a few comments, because i have the impression that there is sometimes a certain optimism on the part of the committee on budgets, optimism which has led us to adopt a recital in which it is stated that the lisbon treaty considerably simplifies the budgetary procedure. i have just arrived in this parliament and obviously i had no experience with the european budget, but frankly what i have read about the new budgetary provisions does not make me share that optimism. the procedure is going to be complex and, depending on the degree of agreement or rather disagreement between parliament and the council, the procedure is going to be complicated. but we shall not know that until some budgetary procedures have been carried out under the new rules. what we can soon know is the mood of the council and, in fact, i am not too optimistic about that either, because i see a council that is trying to grab as much power as possible and thus be able to block any decision that deviates from orthodoxy, that is to say, block any decision that is aimed at spending one euro more than planned, whatever happens. and if that is the case, if it wants to have full control, i think the council will make a big mistake, because what the council needs is to have a strong parliament with which to work together.
i refer to the fajon report, mr president, and on behalf of the spanish delegation of the epp group i would like to point out that although we voted in favour of the report, we do not agree with recital 2a, introduced by amendment no 4, which states that the commission 'should open a visa liberalisation dialogue with kosovo with a view to drawing up a work plan for visa facilitation and liberalisation similar to the work plans drawn up with other western balkan countries'. for my delegation, kosovo cannot be placed on an equal footing with the western balkan countries. i would remind you that kosovo has not been recognised by the spanish authorities or by some other member states. since the amendment was voted on in block with many other amendments, we were unable to vote against it, but we would like to make it clear that we do not agree with its content.
in writing. - i am not against visa liberalisation for the western balkans. but i voted against the fajon report because it is unacceptable to consider visa liberalization with kosovo while we do not recognise its independence. the independence of kosovo is an illegal act under international law; therefore, the eu cannot negotiate visa liberalisation or any other issue with an illegally independent territory. voting in favour of the fajon report is an indirect recognition of kosovo's independence, and this is unacceptable. in addition, we cannot accept biometric data requirements for visa issuance under any circumstances.
in writing. - the eu and russia have a great responsibility for the stability, security and prosperity of europe as a whole. eu-russia cooperation in the quartet should, among other things, serve to put pressure on israel to respect the agreements and halt settlement building, and to resume negotiations aimed at finding a rapid solution leading to the creation of an independent palestinian state. we believe that foreign relations must be based on respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all states and not on the creation of zones of influence. we welcome the continuing exchange of views on human rights in russia. but we note the concerns expressed by russia about human rights violations in the eu, especially with regard to the russian-speaking minorities in the baltic states. i abstained on this resolution because the gue/ngl group is opposed to any initiative which could lead to a new arms race. we are against american plans to install a missile shield in eu member states. we also reject any kind of us-russia-eu-nato collaboration in the construction of a missile defence system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the paliadeli report on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman because i consider that the ombudsman has exercised his powers in an active and balanced manner, both in the examination and management of complaints and the conduct and conclusion of inquiries and in maintaining constructive relations with the institutions and bodies of the european union and in raising citizens' awareness of their rights before these institutions and bodies. the good cooperation between the european ombudsman and the other european bodies, in particular the european parliament's committee on petitions, is noteworthy. we have therefore voted in favour of the report, in order to support it in its role as an external monitoring mechanism and as a valuable source of proposals for the continuous improvement of european administration.
mr president, the situation in western sahara is very serious. the warnings of the observatory for human rights of asturias mi región and many other organizations deserve credibility. there are seven prisoners awaiting military trial for visiting their families in tindouf, there are political prisoners, torture, disappearances and something unusual in international law a peaceful heroine, sakharov prize candidate aminatou haidar, the saharawi gandhi, has been expelled by the occupiers of the territory. minister malmström, members of the european commission and new council members: the european union should be involved in the cause of the people who have been so repressed. on the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, we have, very close, another wall against freedom. listen to aminatou! he is the one who is the master of the world! save his life!
member of the commission. − mr president, today is the culmination of what has been a very long, and very often intense, legislative process, and the efforts shown by all sides in the negotiations have produced results which were worth waiting for. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the committee chairs, the president and the members of the conciliation committee, and all the individual members of parliament who have brought their commitment and expertise to bear. with the adoption of the reform package as it now stands, the union will have a regulatory framework that is fit to meet the challenges of a rapidly developing digital economy based on fair prices for all to get telephone and internet connections, while preparing the ground for investments in high-speed networks delivering high-quality, innovative services. these rules, these reforms, will make the european union a global leader in the regulation of electronic communications, not just by improving the mechanism to move towards a competitive single market, but also by putting the rights of the citizens at the heart of a regulatory policy. the compromise reached in conciliation lays down for the first time in eu law the fundamental rights of internet users against measures that could limit their internet access. this is a very important internet freedom provision. it makes clear that the internet, which is becoming more and more central to our daily lives, should be subject to the same safeguards for our fundamental rights as other areas of activity. prior, fair procedures, with the presumption of innocence and the right to privacy, followed by the right to effective and timely judicial review: those are the rules which have been put into the new reform package. at the same time the reform package enshrines the vision of an open and mutual internet as an objective of regulatory policy. the eu approach is a very pragmatic one. it has, by the way, already been hailed on other continents as an important trendsetter. the protection of consumers against loss of personal data and against spam has also been strengthened, particularly by requiring operators to notify consumers in case of personal data breaches and by strengthening the principle of user consent when it comes to use of cookies. amongst other major gains for consumers is the right to change their fixed or mobile operator in one working day while keeping their old phone number. thanks to parliament, the new provisions on radio spectrum will bring lower prices and encourage the introduction of new services, thereby helping to bridge the digital divide. parliament will have a key role in setting the strategic direction for spectrum policy at european level through the new multiannual radio spectrum policy programme. the reforms will also permit investment by operators in the next-generation networks. they will strengthen the incentives to invest efficiently in new infrastructure by taking account of the investment risks, while ensuring that competition is not stifled. at institutional level, the body of european regulators, the famous berec, offers the opportunity for the 27 national regulators to contribute to the functioning of the single market in a more transparent and effective manner. the strengthened oversight of remedies by the commission, supported by berec, will consolidate the single market by improving the consistency and the quality of implementation of the framework across europe and ensure that operators have a level playing field. let us not forget the important agreement reached on article 19 of the framework directive, which gives the commission enhanced harmonisation powers covering general regulatory approaches, including in relation to remedies. this gives the commission a central role, in cooperation with berec, to ensure that the telecoms regulation is applied consistently in the single market in the interests of citizens and businesses. i already presented to you my declarations at the may plenary, saying that the commission will build on the reforms by consulting widely next year on the scope of the future universal service and a wider application of the principles relating to data breach notification. i reaffirm these commitments today, adjusted of course only to the time that has elapsed since then. the commission will also do its part to ensure that the new tools are put to good use when needed. i have indicated that the commission will monitor the impact of market and technological developments on net freedoms and report to the european parliament and the council before the end of 2010 on whether additional guidance is required. the commission will also invoke its existing competition law powers to deal with any anti-competitive practices that may emerge. i believe that the confidence and the legal certainty provided by these reforms will be critical in helping the e-communications sector to contribute to europe’s economic recovery. i would therefore commend parliament for its support for the package and urge members to vote in favour of its adoption. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my gratitude to my colleagues, and in this case particularly to the rapporteur, mrs trautmann, because she has really made an extraordinary effort. you have to have seen it to know how far it has come in this whole final stretch of the conciliation process. i would say that we are in an excellent position at the moment to start tackling a future which is, in a sense, revolutionary, or should be revolutionary. we now have, or will soon have, a regulatory framework that sets the very appropriate foundations for putting the development of the internet, the digital society and the digital economy at the forefront of our objectives. it is a framework which protects consumers well, which promotes their rights and also gives security to investors. but i think it's very important now, right now, to look with determination to the future. looking beyond 2010 with determination and therefore being able to fully enter into the definition of a digital agenda beyond 2010, a digital agenda which must have, among its fundamental objectives, two objectives: to promote that all people, as consumers and citizens, have all the resources to be able to access and participate from the internet and then to develop a digital internal market that is open and competitive. this is an absolutely essential objective if we are to put the european economy where it belongs in today's global world.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr vice-president, the europol package consists of four draft decisions which are intended to develop the council decision of 6 april 2009. first of all, mr president, i ask - as do my colleagues - that the council's proposal be withdrawn. we want a much more visible parliament and a lisbon treaty which decides with reference to the europol package. we want parliament and the council to be on an equal footing and in a position of balance. to better understand the reasons for my refusal, i will say something about the subject of my report. among the main tasks entrusted to the european police office, the role of collecting, storing, processing, analysing and exchanging information and data is outstanding. in order to fulfil such an important task, it is necessary that the competent authorities of the member states provide europol with complete, up-to-date and accurate information. only then will europol be able to deploy its full analytical capabilities. the scope of the proposed council decision is limited, as defined in article 2 thereof, to the processing of data for analytical purposes, thus fulfilling the mandate set out in article 14 (1) of the decision. for these purposes, europol currently has 19 types of analysis work files. each work file is a separate database, each one linked to a specific type of criminal activity. each database is therefore closely linked to the specific form of operational support that europol can offer in relation to its own competences. the analysis work files are currently the only legal tool at european level for storing, processing and analysing information, whether field or intelligence information, including personal data. the proposal also contains general rules and principles relating to both technical measures and standards for their use. the need to collect and process information requires the creation of a legal instrument that ensures full respect for fundamental rights underlying, full respect for the fundamental rights of european citizens and, in turn, the full performance of the tasks entrusted to europol. and in this respect, i too, like sophie in 't veld, ask whether the legal basis which is being applied is correct or not. in this area, mr president, the role of the european parliament as the house of representatives of the citizens is indispensable. the compulsory control of the european parliament is indispensable, mr president. it is therefore essential that, with the immediate entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament should participate in the legislative process on an equal footing with the council. no criterion of urgency can weigh more heavily than the defence of civil liberties and the security of europeans. i would therefore ask my honourable colleagues, without diminishing our support for the european police office, to reject the proposed instruments until the council has given this parliament a place in the decision-making process and to ask the commission and the council to withdraw the proposal and to submit a new one in accordance with the powers provided for in the lisbon treaty. mr president, i shall explain my position more forcefully and clearly in my next speech. that's all i know.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i listened with great interest to the various speeches by mr nicholson, mrs in't veld, mr albrecht and mrs alfano. it is a debate in which procedural and substantive problems are mixed up. on procedural matters, i understand very well the wishes of parliament. we are on the eve of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i therefore fully understand the questions which the adoption of certain decisions by the council may raise in parliament, and it is true that the commission regrets this somewhat. i would nevertheless like to shed some light on these three issues. europol, as you know, will be given a new legal framework by a council decision which will replace the intergovernmental convention and will become a european agency on 1 january 2010. the council decision was the result of lengthy negotiations and preparations for its implementation are under way. i fully understand the concerns of parliament and i share its expectation that the next institutional framework will be put in place, because this new institutional framework will pave the way for more complete democratic control over the european police office. we will need to learn all the lessons from the initial implementation of the present council decision so that we can have a solid basis for developing our future legislation. to this end, it will be interesting to involve parliament and other stakeholders in the development of the future europol regulation, in particular as regards the modalities of the monitoring by parliament and the national assemblies of europol's activities. mr president, i am still sorry that parliament rejects the council's draft decisions. these are the implementing provisions which regulate important aspects of europol's work without which europol cannot operate. i'm on my way to the crime lab. i understand that the european parliament would like to see another basis for this framework decision on the accreditation of the activities of the laboratories of the scientific police. the commission is in favour of the use of accreditation because it promotes the quality of the work of these laboratories, particularly with regard to sensitive techniques relating to fingerprints, dna samples. the more we accredit these labs, the more the public will trust us. i understand very well, once again, the problem of the legal basis. like parliament, the commission believes that the framework decision, in so far as it refers to services within the meaning of article 50 of the treaty establishing the european community, must have that article 50 as its legal basis. and so we made a statement on behalf of the commission which is recorded in the minutes of the jha council of 23 october 2009. in this declaration, the commission reserves the right to take any measures it deems appropriate in the future. i would add that, in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation, the commission is prepared to support financially the activities of the member states which enable the accreditation of laboratories of the scientific police. the commission is willing to carry out an evaluation of the implementation and application of the instrument by 1 july 2018, as provided for in its new article 7 (4). i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be involved in the matter of the european parliament. i now turn to the european union crime prevention network. we believe, of course, that crime must be prevented. the law enforcement approach is not enough to curb crime and organised crime. prevention is essential, whether at local or cross-border level. in fact, in my recent proposals on human trafficking and child pornography, i have included measures to prevent it. mrs. alfano, you just showed the weaknesses of the network. it is true that a recent evaluation concluded that the need for european cooperation in the prevention of organised crime is very real, and it is also true that public bodies, associations and private actors want a multidisciplinary approach to develop the european exchange of experience, methods and instruments. it is true that the european crime prevention network has encountered problems of a strategic, political and organisational nature. the commission has taken note of this. what we have done in the immediate past is to increase financial support for the network's secretariat. in the stockholm programme we stressed police cooperation and the need to be able to manage it in a community manner, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. it is true that this network can perform a number of tasks which you have listed and that it can undertake tasks of which you have suggested interesting examples. it is also possible to think that joint projects should be set up between social and educational structures, with schools, with continuing training, with joint university courses. it is clear that we are at the beginning of a great policy of crime prevention. the role of civil society and parliament must be increased, that is clear. police cooperation is now a matter of codecision. i therefore believe that we will be able to cooperate as closely as possible within the framework of the new legal basis. this will be in the interest of all citizens affected by security problems in their daily lives. of course, i regret a little this debate which is both procedural and substantive. but i think that now, with the application of the lisbon treaty, and in line with the stockholm programme, we will be able to do much better, and parliament will be able to take its full part in this new strategy against organised crime and all forms of crime.
on behalf of the s&d group. we have a problem, mr president, because the whole house is asking the commission to renew the legislative package on these matters and mr barrot, very kindly, as always, has told us that this is coming from far away, that much has been discussed and that on 1 january it will be put into effect. this is the reality: we have a problem. i would say to you, mr barrot, that you should tell your successor, because you - i understand - cannot answer us, that when you come to the hearings we will ask you whether you intend to draw up a legislative package on this subject, because the whole house is asking for it and it is not a matter of a legislative prurito. it is not a question of this house saying 'i want to intervene', it is a question of intervening. it must intervene because it will have that legislative function in a few days' time, and because this matter is no longer a matter of parliamentary control, we want to put forward other proposals. for example, i see many gaps, many shortcomings, and a great deal of legal uncertainty in many of the directives and decisions that come here. we would like to reform these rules here. i think it is good that europol is working with them. i understand that europol is already working with them and i want it to continue to do so, because i want europol to move forward. but please, i also want you to respect the right of this house to have a say in these rules, because they are its legislative functions and we want to exercise them. i therefore inform you that when the next commissioner comes here, we will ask him to commit himself to drawing up legislative proposals on this matter for this parliament to legislate. that's it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, in the same vein, i wanted to speak as coordinator of the green group on freedom, precisely to emphasize this point. it would be incomprehensible if we had the opportunity to do this co-legislative work involving the european parliament and did not do it. that is why we are all in agreement on this point. in any case, we shall have to see how this happens, but it would obviously be a problem if we were not able to participate as we legitimately ask to do. i also wanted to raise another small point concerning the report on the forensic laboratories - this is the subject i have been following - and to recall very clearly that when we talk about the need for coordination, we must also count on well-understood, well-researched decentralisation. it should be noted that in some member states there is not just one scientific police research centre but several, taking into account the territorial distribution and the police and judicial systems in place. this is particularly the case in spain. and it is important to know this, because in order to achieve coordination, it is necessary to take into account the fact that it is not only a question of coordination between member states, but also between other realities, which are not necessarily at the level of the states.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos is not jeopardised by the introduction of new technologies. in short, what is the european police office, the new office? it is no longer an intergovernmental body but a community body, with a community budget and the control of the european parliament. but what is the least defined? what's the most fragile? the most fragile aspect of the decision is the control of the european parliament. that is why we do not understand, mr president, and cannot accept, any hasty measures which no one can justify with any credibility and which ultimately limit the european parliament's role in monitoring. that is the a of this alphabet, mr president. we cannot therefore accept that the council should go along with this. tomorrow, when we vote, we will ask the council for a statement in the terms already used here: a statement that it is committed to presenting a new legislative package, under the lisbon treaty, within six months. and finally, mr president, it is neither reasonable nor acceptable for us to help promote what we are criticizing. one example: six reports cannot be debated in just over an hour and a half in one afternoon on such important subjects. we are talking, firstly, about the crime prevention network; secondly, about the forensic laboratories and we are also talking about four reports on europol. it's not reason. the importance of the debate has been noted, but we have not been able to go into it because the house itself and its services have made it impossible for us to go into this debate, dealing with no less than six reports at the same time. so, mr president, i hope that in future we will have a greater element of rationality to produce with the necessary prudence and the necessary efficiency the debates which concern us so much and occupy us so much. we'll ask the council tomorrow.
i would also like to begin by saying that the socialist group is proud that two colleagues and friends, david martin and richard corbett, have been the protagonists of this important reform. i would like to convey my congratulations, which i hope will be extended by the whole of parliament. the second thing i want to say is that it is a very important event indeed that we are celebrating, because i think it is of great political significance that on 1 december, along with the new treaty, the regulation will be in force. we give the impression to the european political system that parliament is preparing, is adapting to have an instrument for the new treaty. and, of course, there are many reforms that respond to this idea. as i think it is time to sum up, i would like to say that we naturally agree with the whole report, but, in the context of the reforms and the amendments still pending, i would like to point out two things which i think are appropriate. firstly, if there has been any confusion in the conference of presidents about what amendments should be adopted or accepted, because they are stricto sensu a consequence of the treaty of lisbon, i would like to point out that we want the president of parliament to be the one to determine, if necessary, whether some of the amendments to the rules of procedure are not appropriate. and in that sense, i agree that the president should determine and we will accept that. finally, i think that a change in the rules of procedure for an event of such importance as this calls for unanimity. i think it would be very good if we could agree on the amendments before the vote on wednesday, so that there is a full agreement of the whole house.
mr president, i had the same concern as the rapporteur. i think that in order for the vote to proceed properly next wednesday, in the case of such an important report, we need to know in advance which amendments you consider inadmissible. so i follow your lead and we'd like to have them tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to return to the question of the admissibility of amendments, to which you referred earlier. under rule 157 (3) it is your responsibility, but i would ask you, mr president, to take account of the wise words of the chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs, mr casini. i think it cannot be left to the services of the house to say which ones have to do with the treaty of lisbon and which ones do not. this house is sovereign, moreover, in deciding whether an amendment is necessary or not at this time when a new stage is opening up - as has been said by everyone here. i would therefore ask you, mr president, to use the power which the rules give you, which is a great power, with the moderation and prudence which are yours. and you get it right, and we all see it.
mr president, first of all i want to acknowledge the efforts, and also the enthusiasm, that both the commission and the council and, of course, parliament have put into this whole programme of combating climate change for so long. i mean, there are certainties that should guide our path. the first thing that is clear is that we need everyone to participate, especially the big emitters. second, almost certain: it seems very difficult, given all the information available, to reach a legally binding agreement in copenhagen, as, of course, agreements on emission percentages are binding. but this reality must not lead us into a situation of abandonment, because pessimism is based on a lack of recognition of reality, whereas, on the contrary, optimism is based on recognition of reality. and what should we do in copenhagen, essentially? of course, let us not forget the possibility of reaching such a general agreement. but knowing the situation and the possibilities, i believe we should concentrate on sectoral agreements, agreements which are really viable, with viable objectives. the agreement on deforestation, the agreement on aid to emerging and developing countries, but above all on technology transfer, and agreements also - which i think would be very interesting - for the promotion of programmes so that the industrial sectors which consume the most energy throughout the world can reach agreements on emissions, wherever they are, which will also benefit the competitiveness of our economies. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that optimism is based on realism and effectiveness on the feasibility of the objectives. and that should be our guide at all times.
madam president, combating climate change also requires a radical change in energy production and consumption. we need a new model that balances our three needs: security, sustainability and competitiveness. and with that goal in mind, we're working on a common response. the year 2007 was decisive, because we set clear targets. it was a decision to prevent the temperature from rising to a point of no return, but made from the knowledge that inaction would have other costs for the global economy, while investing in efficiency and renewables could be profitable. to convince citizens and the market of the firm will to achieve these objectives, we needed a solid and stable legislative framework that would give legal certainty to invest, hence the six legislative initiatives in the green package. the contribution of the itre commission has been important. i would highlight the agreement on the renewable energy directive and the recent agreements on two very important directives: the directive on efficiency in buildings and the directive on energy labelling. these are measures which involve change, but which are also a decisive and real stimulus to economic growth in job creation. they mean savings of €50 billion on oil and gas imports, one million more jobs in the renewables sector and the equivalent in energy efficiency by 2020. the eco-industry already represents more than three million jobs and green technologies are an increasing part of a sector with an annual turnover of more than eur 200 billion. we've done a lot of work in europe. it's not enough. action is needed on a global scale. that is why the socialists in the itre committee want the international negotiations to return to the path of understanding, so that a genuine global agreement can be reached in copenhagen. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i would like to congratulate the members of the envi committee and its chairman, mr leinen, on the work they have done so that we can have a resolution like the one we have, and which we must adopt decisively. we cannot simply say that we have had enough of sectoral agreements, because to talk of a retail agreement is to admit that we have already failed in some way. we must adopt this resolution, which has three noble aspirations. one, more obvious, is to avoid climate change, with concrete proposals for reducing emissions and with a commitment to finance, and which aims at a binding agreement, i mean, not a retail agreement. and two latent aspirations: first, to start working sooner rather than later to have a common energy policy, as we once had a common agricultural policy, because it was necessary, and, of course, the aspiration, also included, to regain the citizens' confidence in politics and politicians, which we in europe do not have any shortage of. in this sense, the success of the summit will be the success of all three aspirations. i therefore encourage the president-in-office of the council to continue his optimism and to press and negotiate as much as he can to bring others to this success. i do not know whether the rulers of this multipolar world want to be held accountable in history for not being able to reach a binding agreement, but i, as a member of parliament, and i believe all the representatives of the peoples, cannot be held accountable in history for not having been able to reach in copenhagen the binding commitment we have with humanity to prevent climate change.
in writing. - i voted against the framework directive on electronic communications networks and services because i believe it is an attack on freedom of expression and the civil rights of citizens. with the adoption of this directive, the european union allows the cutting of internet supply without the need for a prior court order. as a civil rights defender i can only oppose this decision which gives private companies the power to introduce restrictions on the use of the net and which is yet another example of the liberalisation of the european telecommunications market. furthermore, the fact that non-judicial bodies (whose nature and composition have not been specified) can dictate the cutting off of internet supply in the face of alleged illegal practices (also undetermined) undermines the presumption of innocence of citizens and opens the door to operators who restrict the rights of users, establish content filters and grant more speed to some pages to the detriment of others, de facto ending net neutrality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a report which brings to a close all the work done on the so-called telecommunications package, two directives and a regulation which represent a fundamental step forward in the development of the information society and the protection of users' rights. the new legislation also provides clear rules and legal certainty to encourage new investments, which in turn will enable new services to be offered and new economic activities to be developed. this is therefore legislation with a major economic impact. the text finally adopted also ensures greater respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of consumers in accessing the network by giving legal certainty to amendment no 138. the compromise adopted refers to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, while amendment no 138 opted for the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the latter option has a clear disadvantage: the united kingdom, poland and now the czech republic have introduced a protocol of derogation which prevents the ecj and their respective national courts from acting in the event of non-compliance, while all member states are signatories to the convention and there is no interference with national legal systems.
in writing. − on 9 november 2009, the report on the request for defence of the immunity and privileges of tobias pflüger (a7-0054/2009) was voted and adopted in the committee on legal affairs (juri) in the european parliament. this report is based on incorrect facts. the central point is: the report cites a judgment at first instance which was repealed in the meanwhile. the judgment is invalid because the munich regional court dismissed the action against tobias pflüger on 21 july 2009 in second and final instance. a conviction was not made. for this reason all reproaches are invalid. it is politically unacceptable that this report, which contains incorrect facts, was voted in the plenary today (24 november 2009). we have tried to get this incomplete and therefore incorrect report taken off the agenda, unfortunately without success. this kind of proceeding by the european parliament creates the impression of supporting the persecution of political active persons, in this case the munich ii public prosecution service against the former member of european parliament, tobias pflüger.
president of the commission. − first of all i think it is fair to welcome the fact that we are going to have a commissioner for climate action. so far that position has not existed. it is precisely because there is a lot to do and i want to give weight, to use your expression, to this function that i have decided and have announced to parliament the creation of the post of commissioner for climate action. that commissioner will have a lot of responsibilities. he or she will have to mainstream climate action, because climate action has to do with energy but also with the environment, research, agriculture and industry. so this is a very important coordinating role for climate action, both internally and externally. it is quite evident that copenhagen will not be the end of the process. i hope we will have an operational agreement at copenhagen, but there will also be a lot of things to do after copenhagen, including the work with our main partners. the commissioner for climate action will therefore have a very important role, externally and internally, to fulfil all our expectations for a strong climate policy in the european union.
president of the commission. − first of all, i do not see what the relation is between taxes and herman van rompuy because it is not for the council to propose taxes. that is a competence of the commission. my answer is the following. firstly, i always give honest answers; you do not need to ask me to give an honest answer. secondly, i intend to look at all issues of taxation in the european union. we have to look at this. we have to look at own resources of the european union. we have promised it to parliament. the programme with which i was elected was to look at possible own resources, and this is in the programme that was adopted by this european parliament.
president of the commission. − the commission respects the position taken by the member states, and the member states have decided unanimously to have negotiations with turkey. we are fulfilling the mandate we received for negotiating on behalf of the member states with turkey and with other candidate countries. it is important to know that this was a unanimous decision by the member states. it was not an invention of the commission. there was a unanimous decision by the member states to negotiate with turkey, and others, the possibility of their accession. it is quite clear that turkey is not ready for accession – neither are we to give them membership – but we should keep negotiating in the spirit of good faith with all the candidate countries. regarding the comments made by mr van rompuy, i usually do not comment on comments. as president of the council, he was very clear that he will also respect the mandate that he receives from the member states.
mr president, i shall speak of two concepts: coordination and flexibility. in all the subjects discussed in the council, one problem is detected. in recent years, there has been a tremendous lack of coordination between the various directorates-general within the commission. climate change policy has often been raised outside the scientific knowledge of the directorate-general for research; and outside, for example, land use, which is interconnected with climate change. my first question is: are you prepared to organise and strengthen internal coordination so that when we elect the commissioners we can be sure that there is internal coordination? secondly, we are talking about competitiveness, about the economic crisis. is the commission also prepared to be more flexible on some issues such as reach and its implementation, which will cause extraordinary damage to our own competition? are you willing to have more flexibility? and in this policy of coherence, my last point: it is not possible to talk about the economy and recovery without talking about opening up energy markets. there are countries which do not have an energy market, such as spain in the case of gas. that means an increase in price and an impossibility of development.
the commission - i will do everything in my power to improve internal coordination in the commission, but let me tell you that i think there has been good coordination. the commission's decisions have always been taken by consensus. now it is certainly natural that when we talk to different commissioners, each one tries to put first what is his most direct concern. it is natural that the environment commissioner should show a greater interest in environmental issues than the industry commissioner, who will show a greater interest in industrial development issues. but what counts is the decision of the college, and there has been efficient coordination. and we want to develop an advanced environmental policy, while at the same time ensuring the competitiveness of our companies. and i think the proposals put forward by the commission ensure that there are appropriate solutions in case other countries do not subscribe to the same high levels of ambition we have in environmental protection. we do not want to export european jobs to countries that do not have the same level of environmental requirements as we do.
mr president, mr barroso, i would like you to give us your views clearly on two matters relating to the composition of the next commission. firstly, i heard you say in this house that you planned to subdivide the justice and home affairs portfolio into two separate portfolios: one for fundamental rights and justice, and the other for security and immigration. but this afternoon i heard him speak of a fundamental rights and justice portfolio and another one of home affairs, which i think is a much more correct approach, because it clears up the not only false but also dangerous view of immigration as a security threat or as a security-related issue. i would like to know whether that is the approach and whether it will affect the structure of the directorates-general - currently the directorate-general for justice and home affairs - but i would also like to hear from you a commitment in relation to the legislative programme which will develop the stockholm programme in the area of justice, security and freedom, because, as lisbon comes into force, this parliament will be decisive from the very first minute and i would like to hear from you a clear commitment to associate this house with the development of the legislative programme derived from the stockholm programme.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the multiannual programme 2010-2014 on the area of freedom, security and justice (stockholm programme).
mr president, i would like to begin by acknowledging the work of the swedish presidency of the council and of the commission in promoting the multiannual programme for the next five years in the area of freedom, justice and security. but above all, i want to highlight the work of this parliament, because three committees, juri, afco and libe, have worked together to launch the article 51 procedure, and we have done so in time, because it is important, because it is really important, to promote the area of freedom, justice and security, being aware that lisbon is going to come into force, which means a great leap forward: by strengthening this parliament, which will be co-legislating and decisive in a whole area which has been the domain of intergovernmental cooperation up to now, but also because the european charter of fundamental rights and the mandate to ratify the european convention on human rights come into force, and means a strengthening of that harmonious interaction between freedom and security. security is not subordinate to freedom, nor is it a challenge to freedom. security is a citizen's right, as is freedom. it is in many of the constitutions of the member states, and it must be integrated into an effort to understand citizenship, the fundamental rights of citizens, immigration, asylum, refuge, the management of the external border of the european union, judicial cooperation; to strengthen mutual trust, the mutual recognition of our civil rights, contract law, which drives economic growth and job creation, and above all, police cooperation and judicial-criminal cooperation to fight together common enemies that are real: organised crime and terrorism. this parliament has worked hard and improved the council's own-initiative document. it has improved it by strengthening the anti-discrimination clause, in particular for women and children, and there is a commitment to combat gender-based violence and to protect victims of gender-based violence by strengthening the solidarity clause on asylum, which effectively shows that neither immigration nor asylum is a problem that affects a single member state, but calls for cooperation between all member states, because otherwise we will not be able to deal with it. it has also done so in stressing the importance of training the legal professions to cooperate and to bring our systems closer together and, through mutual recognition and trust, to be able to integrate the instruments of response in order to make the european union a genuine area of freedom, justice and security. that is why i think it is worthwhile for this parliament, tomorrow, when voting on the parliamentary report which we have drawn up jointly by the afco, juri and libe committees, to send a clear message to the citizens who are watching us. and that is that we care about their fundamental rights, we care about their freedom, we care about their security, we care about cooperating together against transnational organized crime, transnational violence and terrorism, and protecting all the victims of these forms of crime, especially those of terrorism. i think the public would not understand if we missed that appointment, and that is why i am asking for the widest possible support from this house for the report we are presenting tomorrow and which must be voted on in this sitting.
thank you, zita. you succeeded in speaking for two minutes but i do not know whether the interpretation followed you because i was permanently getting the red light. in any case, let us congratulate the interpreters if they succeeded in following you.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the swedish presidency and the whole house on the report we have drawn up. now, i would like to make three warnings that i think are important for the future. the first is that if there is no legislative initiative, if the council and the commission do not bring in legislative acts to supplement, to give fullness to the programme, obviously the programme may not be successful. the second warning - as my colleagues have rightly said - is that this house is going to play a new role. it will not be reporting to be heard, as it has done so far, but it will be collegiating, it will be making agreements, it will have to strike that balance, which is sometimes so difficult, between security and freedom. and it is a new task and a new responsibility for all european parliamentarians. and finally, i would like to warn against the fundamentalist application of the principle of subsidiarity. i hear my colleagues talking about the need to respect national parliaments, and that is true, but i have to warn that a rigid and fundamentalist interpretation of subsidiarity will not allow progress to be made in the stockholm programme. if the countries over-interpret their subsidiarity principle, there will be no common legislation on the stockholm programme.
we now come to the point of incidental requests for the use of the word 'catch-the-eye'. i will apply the rules of procedure absolutely rigorously. i mean, five colleagues will be speaking, one minute each, and we'll cut the microphone when the minute is up. since there are more than fifteen speakers, let us hear the first five.
mr president, today there is no doubt about the european union's commitment to the fight against terrorism and, thanks to the stockholm programme, we will continue to make progress in this much-needed area of freedom, justice and security. i believe that this struggle has been based on mutual trust between the member states, but it is high time, with the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon, to harmonize national legislation in the direction of the non-prescription of terrorist offences, which should be considered crimes against humanity. the day that this happens, no one in this parliament or any other will defend terrorists, as has happened, is happening and can continue to happen, with the consequent damage to the victims of terrorism, who see how those who murder their loved ones are treated as heroes, while they suffer in silence. i therefore ask this parliament to promote or adopt the european charter of the rights of victims of terrorism, based on the defence of the memory... (the president cut the speaker off)
we have now finished the speeches under the catch-the-eye procedure. i regret that ten or twelve other members were unable to speak, but that is impossible, given the delay and the rules of procedure which oblige us to follow.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? thank you for all the feedback! i am not really sorry that 10 members were not allowed to speak. i am very pleased with the commitment that members are showing to these important issues. someone said this program is ambitious. i am glad of that, because it has been an ambitious work and also a practical work, where we have wanted to combine the vision with a pragmatic stance on how to do things better from a citizen's perspective. i have the impression that many people share at least the main features of the draft programme currently being negotiated. let me comment on two areas. first, the question of form. today's debate was a bit confusing, if i may say so, because some people say the stockholm programme but mean the interesting motion for a resolution which you are going to discuss and decide on in parliament, that is to say your views on the draft presented by the presidency. someone said at the beginning of the debate 'why should we discuss a draft when there is already a new one?' the truth is that the european parliament is in the midst of the debate and negotiations that are taking place. it's changing all the time. friday or this weekend, there's another draft. but i can tell the member who thought he had an old document that we have been presenting the latest draft on the presidency's website all along. members who wish to follow the debate and see how it affects the final result should of course read the documents we publish. the presidency has placed a very high priority on working towards transparency and openness. that's why we've had so many discussions. the ten of you who didn't have a chance to speak here, feel free to e-mail me or tobias. it's very simple, the address is beatrice.ask@justice.ministry.se and the same with tobias. then you can submit your comments and they'll be in the game. we must start working in a modern way, and transparency is modernity for the swedish presidency. i look forward to the resolution and its outcome because i note a lot of support for some of the points, some of the nuances and some of the underlining that the resolution points out. of course, we will give them careful consideration. then there are a few political issues that i just want to mention. firstly, two members, one of whom was gerard botten, gave individual examples of how citizens are affected - perhaps in another country - and then you don't think that the conditions are very good. that's a classic example of a lack of trust in each other's legal systems. then you have two choices: one is to tell your citizens to stay home, because home is always the best place to be. but if you think that your citizens will continue to benefit from the freedom of movement, perhaps it is time to think about how to improve procedural rights and so on in the union as a whole. that is precisely what the stockholm programme is about. that is why i am so incredibly happy that we have been able to take the first step in strengthening procedural rights, to now guarantee that everyone who is a suspect or a victim and ends up in a legal process in europe actually gets help with translation and interpretation. the fundamental right is in the council of europe conventions and other things, but not in practice. now we can make a difference, and that's how we're gonna work. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i would like to say that it is a very clear and challenging chapter. the fact that we mention greco is not because of and it is not that we should lower our ambition because of their views. what it says is that we, among many other tasks, are to work closely with this important body on these issues because we have to go for the money if we are to fight organized crime. i think that's important. subsidiarity has been a subject of much discussion. i believe that the proposal under discussion today represents a very clear position in which eu cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs should be an added value. what is done so well in the nation state, we should leave it there. it is when we need cooperation that we should use the european institutions. i am saying that we are not at all infringing the rights of the nation state, but are adding value to the benefit of all citizens. finally, i would like to raise the issue of privacy and data protection, which is a big and important debate. i think it was mario borghezio who raised this and said that there were very big concerns about the stockholm programme as it stands. he expressed concern about surveillance and big data and stuff. he also compared our work in this area with the situation in the former east germany and the communist states we had before. i mean, that kind of argument is just plain untenable. in east germany there was no data protection, no democracy and no fundamental rights for citizens - three important factors which are fundamental to our cooperation. as regards the stockholm programme, we are strengthening and tightening the rules on data protection and respect for individual rights, and also democracy in several respects. in fact, the information strategy we want the eu to develop balances a methodical and efficient exchange of information with stronger requirements for the protection of the privacy and security of data management, but also for data not to be stored for too long. please read those sections a little more, because they are very clear. this is progress which has also been praised by the european ombudsman who is working on it. finally, someone said we should be more specific. there is a lot of concrete and practical stuff in the stockholm programme, but this is where the game starts. some members have said that the resolution was worked on under pressure of time and that it was very difficult to get everything done. i can tell you it's going to get worse. once we have adopted the stockholm programme, you will be part of the important work that has to be done in terms of implementing and going into the various proposals. so you're going to have a lot of time pressure and a lot of stress, but also a lot of challenges and a lot of opportunities to make a difference. thank you very much for your comments and, as i said, please use the internet if you wish to contact the presidency in the coming days.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i fully agree with what minister ask has said about the overall conclusions of the programme. thank you very much for all the good points that have been presented here today. i would also like to thank the chairs of the three committees, the committee on constitutional affairs, the committee on legal affairs and the committee on the interior, for the very good cooperation they have shown on these matters. as i said at the beginning, i think this really shows a great sense of responsibility on the part of all the parties involved, and i think we have reason to be proud of that. i would like to stress the importance of cooperation in all the important areas of this programme. in his speech, mr busuttil made comparisons with the magnitude of the single market, which i think are not so far from the truth, because this is a project of about the same size and importance. a word that has been pervasive in political dialogue on asylum and migration issues in recent years has been solidarity. all member states agree that solidarity must be strengthened. this is not just solidarity between member states, but also solidarity between the eu and third countries. that is the message we want to convey in the stockholm programme. as i said in my introduction, we believe that this complex issue requires very broad and sustainable solutions that permeate the entire policy field. this is one of the reasons why there is no specific solidarity section in the stockholm programme. there are elements of solidarity under all the paragraphs. the global approach to migration should be one of the key starting points in this context. the role of frontex should be strengthened. keller brought this up in his speech. i would like to be very clear in saying that frontex is of course not the answer to the problem on its own. frontex is responsible for coordinating member states' border controls but has no mandate in maritime rescue, for example. the situation in the mediterranean is not primarily a border control problem, but rather a problem requiring several types of action. increased cooperation between countries of origin and transit is of the utmost importance. we must also focus on development cooperation in the form of aid. i think it is important to stress that the european parliament will be very much involved in all these aspects now that we have the treaty of lisbon in place, and democratic control will increase on these points. in the light of all that has been said here today, i also think it is important to point out that the treaty of lisbon does indeed represent a real and significant change. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the european parliament. i therefore have no concern whatsoever with the concerns expressed by mrs franziska keller here today on these issues. on the contrary, i think we are seeing major steps towards greater democratic control in this area of policy. mr president, in conclusion, i would just like to say, as my colleague beatrice ask has said, that it is perfectly possible to put forward your views to us by e-mail if you did not have the opportunity to put them forward here today.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i would like to emphasize the quality of the work carried out by your three committees: the committee on legal affairs - mr casini is here - the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs - mr lópez aguilar is here - and the committee on constitutional affairs. it is a very interesting piece of work and will help us and the swedish presidency to give a final version of this stockholm programme. as simon busuttil said, it is true that citizens have the internal market, but they do not really have an area of law, security and freedom, even though, thanks to the schengen area, freedom of movement is now established. you've got to keep the profit. i should point out that the guidelines against abuse have been published. i would like to say that i think this text is quite balanced. after hearing the different aspirations of each side, the text reaches a certain balance. it should also be said that we are writing stockholm in a world where organized crime, cybercrime, terrorism are on the rise, and where we obviously need to be on guard. this is where europe can add value. i would also like to say that we are increasingly seeing citizens, couples, in this judicial area who are binational and therefore they must also be able to assert their rights in the different member states in which they are. i would also like to stress that we have made progress in the procedural safeguards, as beatrice ask has very well said, and this is a very important element of the stockholm programme. you gave the example of a british citizen in greece. if there were minimal procedures, it would make things a lot easier. i would also like to take up a phrase from mr coelho, and say that we have come a long way since tampere. i would add that we cannot accept the term 'fortress europe' either. tobias billström has been very clear about this. this is also the key to a balanced european migration policy. we reject illegal immigration because it is the source of all trafficking and organized crime. there's no question about that. but it is also true that i believe we have succeeded in presenting an asylum policy which is in keeping with european values of generosity. of course, i cannot answer all the questions, mr president, because time is running out. i simply want to say that this stockholm programme, as beatrice ask said, is very pragmatic, and that it will thus lend itself to an action plan which the spanish presidency will implement, and you, ladies and gentlemen, will now be the co-legislators. i certainly see this as a powerful way of advancing the area of freedom, security and justice that citizens so desire. i thank parliament for what it has already done and for what it will do in future, now fully associated with this legislation on the area of law and security.
the debate is closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, my group finds it impossible to separate the commercial, immigration or financial aspects of the euro-mediterranean project from the political aspects, and our group has already expressed its opposition to the european union's elevating israel and the kingdom of morocco to such an advanced status, because they are two hot spots that are incompatible with a peaceful union based on international law. in this sense, we believe that the european union should be much more demanding, and the european commission much more demanding, in terms of those values which can lead us to a project of shared security and peace. for example, a sahrawi leader is currently on hunger strike on lanzarote, an island in the spanish state, because the kingdom of morocco does not allow her to enter the occupied territories. this is a substantial issue which would require a strong position on the part of the european institutions vis-à-vis the kingdom of morocco. i believe that the union for the mediterranean is not just trade, it is also defence of international law and defence of human rights.
mr president, i rise to highlight the efforts of this house in favour of minority and regional languages in the written communications of citizens to parliament, who can address the house in these languages and receive a reply in the same. another thing, mr president, is the claim by some to use regional, minority or co-official languages in certain territories of member states in plenary sessions of this house. this is not a viable aim in a parliament which works in a regime of comprehensive multilingualism in 23 languages, which consumes more than a third of our budget and employs more than half of our civil servants. in the united kingdom, luxembourg, estonia, cyprus, spain, sweden, finland - and the list goes on - there are languages in this category. this would mean, mr president, that we would have to use 35 or 40 languages in the house, which is simply not feasible in financial and logistical terms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the european charter for regional and minority languages, adopted by the council of europe and endorsed by 47 european states, including all those of us who are members of the union, states that regional or minority languages must be protected, because in some cases they are in danger of disappearing. i believe that this attitude contributes to the maintenance and development of the traditions, the diversity and the cultural richness of the continent, which we must preserve. it also protects, as the commissioner has said, a fundamental right of the people who speak these languages. the commissioner has mentioned that the states must use all the tools available to them to ensure the use of these languages, but we know that this is not the case. multilingualism and bilingualism are not guaranteed in all member states where there are official languages, and the problem is that we do not regard minority languages as a heritage of the union, as a heritage of our own. but i ask for a reflection on the concept of a minority language, because there are languages of member states which are official in the european parliament, but which have fewer speakers and less visibility than some regional languages, which are not official. in this way we are violating the linguistic rights of 40 million europeans, and protecting these rights is a matter of principle, as the commissioner himself has said. there are 700 000 basques and basques who speak euskera, the oldest language in europe, whose origin is still unknown, and bringing europe closer to basques and basques also means, among other things, making them feel that "gabon" is as worthy of respect as saying "good night", "good evening" or "bonsoir".
mr president, i would like to express my deep concern over the attitude of the spanish government, which does not allow the catalan language to be used in this parliament. the catalan language was banned and persecuted during the franco dictatorship; now spanish democracy is demonstrating its low quality by not permitting the official use of catalan in this parliament. all languages are equal, the same way that all human beings are equal. europe is an exquisite model of good practice which gives the possibility to smaller official languages to be treated on an equal footing. ten million people speak catalan, and this language is not allowed to be spoken in this house. if catalan were recognised and authorised to be spoken in parliament, this would decisively help to improve the situation of the catalan language in spain, reinforcing our claim to break the centuries-old unilingualism of the spanish parliament. as a catalan member of the european parliament, who now knows that that represents a clear and major demand of catalan people, i ask for the special attention of the european commission to normalise the catalan language in this house.
mr president, i spoke at yesterday's sitting of this parliament to stress the importance of the stockholm programme, which is on the agenda for the european council on 10 december. i did so to highlight its contents and, above all, to ask for the widest possible parliamentary support for this impulse to the report which we have drawn up in three committees, working side by side: juri, libe and afco. i therefore stressed yesterday the importance of building a people's europe, as well as a market. but i think it is time to highlight the importance of this from the institutional point of view in the council's agenda for 10 and 11 december, because lisbon will strengthen this parliament. it will strengthen it, above all, in the area of freedom, justice and security and in the preparation of the action plan - which will have to be adopted during the spanish presidency - because article 17 of the treaty on european union and article 295 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union mandate such institutional cooperation and oblige us to reach an interinstitutional cooperation agreement in order to develop together the strategy for implementing the treaty of lisbon, and to do so in accordance with the criteria of greater transparency, subsidiarity and cooperation with national parliaments, thus involving national parliaments in the development of the lisbon agenda. this is gonna make us work a lot harder. it's not going to simplify our lives, it's going to complicate them. it will also require us to make an assessment in order to learn from experience and, above all, to become respectful of this model of being european and of fundamental rights. the european parliament will also be called upon to be more closely involved in the monitoring of the swift agreement, which is so important in the bilateral relationship with the united states and which has been discussed here at this part-session. but most importantly, the european parliament will be involved in the evaluation and monitoring of the performance of the agencies of the european institutional architecture: europol, the european asylum and refugee office, eurojust and the frontex agency. i therefore want to put on the agenda of the european council the importance of strengthening the commitment to action and cooperative work with the european parliament and, in particular, the preparation and monitoring of the action plan, which will be adopted during the spanish presidency in the next six months.
in writing. - i voted against the report on euromed because it is not possible to dissociate the commercial part of the political dialogue in the union for the mediterranean. this report goes straight to the heart of the european union's interest in the union for the mediterranean: the creation of a free trade area between the two regions. i am against the establishment of the free trade area. the trade chapter should be based on fair trade, taking into account the asymmetries between eu countries and mediterranean countries. on the other hand, on the political front, we cannot agree with the advanced status that the eu has granted morocco while it continues to commit human rights violations. the eu considers that the saharan conflict, by supporting the process of holding a referendum on self-determination in line with un resolutions, should be a priority in the union for the mediterranean. similarly, because of the constant violations of international law and political commitments with regard to palestine, we cannot accept the 'upgrading' that the eu has granted to israel.
we have completed the list of members who wished to make an explanation of vote. for the record, we have received a request for the floor 'for a point of order' from mr andrew brons, because he had apparently been referred to by some of the remarks made by mr david martin and, in accordance with the rules of procedure, we were going to give him the floor at this time. i therefore want it to be noted in the minutes that we wanted to give you the floor, but that you did not use it because you were not present. (the sitting was suspended at 2.10 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i want to begin by emphasizing how pleased i am that today we can sign the telecom package together. the package strengthens competition and consumer protection in europe. we are getting a modern and updated regulatory framework in an area where developments are happening at breakneck speed. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank everyone involved for an extremely strong and good work and a very creative collaboration. i would like to thank in particular the vice-president of the european parliament, mr alejo vidal-quadras, the chairman of the committee, mr herbert reul, and the three rapporteurs from this parliament, mrs catherine trautmann, mrs pilar del castillo vera and mr malcolm harbour, who, like my colleagues in the council of ministers, have done a very important job in ensuring that we can put the telecommunications package together. the cooperation enabled us to reach an agreement which clearly demonstrates the great and crucial importance of the internet for freedom of expression and information, while not breaking the treaty. the telecommunications package is a great victory for all european consumers. i thank everyone again for the work that has gone into this agreement.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the 2009 enlargement strategy for the western balkan countries, iceland and turkey.
madam president, the enlargement process has been a great success; the last enlargement has brought us back together with the countries of eastern and central europe, unjustly excluded from freedom and prosperity after the second world war. the enlargement is now heading towards the western balkans, turkey and iceland. i share the concepts we have identified in recent years as guiding principles of the enlargement process, namely consolidation, conditionality and communication. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but we should not be able to do it. secondly, progress in the respective accession processes is subject to strict compliance with the conditions. the candidate countries must make a determined effort to implement the necessary reforms. and thirdly, we all have to make an effort to communicate with the citizens. the resolution to be voted on tomorrow stresses this very important aspect of communication. in this context, i would like to reiterate the broader proposal, which i have already made on other occasions, that it would also be appropriate to strengthen the knowledge of young europeans about the european union by introducing a compulsory subject at secondary school level. another important idea in the resolution is the capacity for integration. enlargement means that those of us within the union must take action. for example, at the financial level, enlargement requires sufficient financial resources not to jeopardise essential community policies such as agricultural policy or cohesion policy. i'm just finishing up. i would point out that kosovo is a unique case, as we know, and yet unfortunately there are paragraphs in the resolution which do not make that singularity clear.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it is indeed necessary to establish a clear legal basis for combating all forms of violence against women. i also urge the council and the commission to take a decision on the full communitarisation of the european policy. none of the eu’s member states are succeeding in addressing these problems on their own. zero tolerance towards all forms of violence against women must become a top priority of all institutions throughout europe. parliament’s demand to the council and the commission for a targeted and more coherent eu policy plan to combat all forms of violence against women is a step in the right direction, as is the observatory on violence that has already been mentioned. furthermore, i wish also to remind the commission and the council of my request on addressing violence against women in the gender-related dimension of human rights violations internationally, in particular in the context of the bilateral association and international trade agreements in force and those under negotiation, as is also established in my report on feminicides, i also wish to ask the commissioner if she can be a bit more concrete about this. let me just finish by welcoming the presence in the gallery of our friends from the congolese association for peace and justice. they have given us these flowers in order to remind us every day that this is a common fight that we have to fight together and also with the people who are suffering and fighting in the field on this matter.
mr president, today millions of people and women around the world are speaking out against gender-based violence. we cannot afford to close our eyes to the greatest social scourge manifested by historically unequal power relations. there is no reason, no argument, no possibility of understanding. there are women who are killed for the mere fact of being women. faced with this reality, we all have a responsibility - european institutions, member states and organisations - to use all the means at our disposal to eliminate gender-based violence, to move towards a more equal society, with bold and determined legislation. countries such as spain have made a clear commitment to this end. the law against gender violence is a necessary and indispensable instrument and therefore an example to be followed in the rest of europe. education for equality, prevention measures, the fight against stereotypes, legal assistance for victims, and we could go on listing a multitude of policies needed in this regard. i think it is important that the next spanish presidency of the union has set the fight against gender-based violence as one of its priority objectives, and i hope that this parliament will strongly support all initiatives in this direction. let us all work together, because in this way we will be standing with the millions of women victims who cannot wait another minute.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, we must support the democratic and social development of somalia to put an end to piracy. but we also ask that european fishing vessels operating in the southern indian ocean be protected from pirate attacks by operation atalanta, just as merchant vessels carrying military escorts are, because it is the most effective, least costly solution and the one recommended by the international maritime organisation, and that those arrested for piracy be tried in the countries of the area, as provided for in the march 2008 agreement with kenya and the seychelles. the fishermen, because of their particular vulnerability, are at real and increasing risk of being assaulted and kidnapped in the area. because this parliament denounced this problem a year ago, and even the commission has acknowledged that we have done nothing in this respect, while the pirates have continued to attack. the last victim, the alakrana, has been held captive for nearly 50 days. and thirdly, because these vessels operate under a european fisheries agreement, they operate legally in international waters and under the control of the competent authorities. that's why we need to extend protection to these types of ships.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, we fully agree with the first part of the speech by commissioner ferrero. that is the problem, that is the root of the problem, and as long as we do not tackle the root of the problem, there will be no military solution by sea or by land. the head of operation atalanta made a statement yesterday and made it clear that a maritime solution to piracy is impossible. the united states tried, and failed, a military operation by land. therefore, anything that delays development cooperation and the solution to the governance of the country is a mistake. a military solution is not possible, but neither is the privatization of the armed forces, as the spanish government has done. it's not about trading armies for people from private security companies with war weapons. no, that's not the answer. the solution is, indeed, to end all piracy, all of it; not only somali piracy, but also foreign piracy that is scouring somali waters.
madam president, commissioner ferrero, mr president of the council, spain has just experienced a regrettable episode in which a ship, the alakrana, and its entire crew have been subjected to blackmail, humiliation and thousands of risks. it is in spain - which is where it competes - that the spanish government is being asked to take responsibility today. here we are going to talk about europe and more europe. and so we must say that the balance, after a year in which we have called for diplomacy and forcefulness, has been positive. but operation atalanta is not enough. it must be extended, made more flexible, so that it is also possible to protect not only the route of humanitarian aid but also the fishermen and the community traders. we must protect them and that is why in the resolution we are going to adopt tomorrow we are going to ask for some commitments from this european parliament and its institutions. we want to say yes to the firm attitude of the states which protect their ships with their respective armed forces to deter and, if necessary, legitimately repress pirate actions. we must say 'no' to the hiring of private security, which according to the imo contains risks of unnecessary violence, not to the dilettante and passive attitude of governments that are making piracy easy; and we must say 'yes' to diplomacy, yes to aid to somalia; and we must say 'no' to the baseless accusations of alleged illegal fishing. our community vessels are fishing in accordance with our international conventions, in accordance with the law, and they need to be protected, and this is the obligation of the community institutions.
madam president, to give an approximation of what is happening in the waters of the indian ocean, we must deal with the issue of piracy responsibly, without demagogy and without partisan uses, despite the comments which i have had the misfortune to hear here from one of my colleagues, who has used his speech to attack the spanish government. a spanish government that i remember was the promoter and driving force behind the atalanta mission, which we are praising today. and it is clear that this mission is not enough and that it must be reinforced. i therefore ask the council to strengthen this mission, to extend the protection zones under its responsibility, to provide it with more personnel and to give it more powers, for example to monitor the ports from which the motherships used by pirates leave. but it is clear that atalanta cannot be the only mechanism for solving the problem in somalia. and that is why i am calling here for a common strategy to be sought in dealing with somalia, including cooperation and political dialogue with the transitional federal government. and i also ask the council to launch a new operation, a parallel operation to atalanta, to help train and equip the security forces of the somali federal government while strengthening its commitment to respect for human rights and to the application of the law. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
does the honourable member think it irresponsible to say that it is in the context of spain that the government should be held accountable and that we should be talking about europe and european measures in support of operation atalanta?
mr. big, don't try to play games. what i find irresponsible is that he uses his intervention to throw the spanish government into a trap.
madam president, piracy is a very important issue for spain, because it is also affecting our fishing vessels, and i would like to congratulate the release of the alakrana vessel, its fishermen, its owner and the spanish government for the work they have done. the fishermen are the target of pirates and a great opportunity to ask for rescues - that is obvious - and pirates have been modernized, as the council has said, at sea and on land, they are profitable and the member states also have to respond. operation atalanta has been a success, and the commissioner has also reflected the number of activities that have been carried out and which are important, but we need more and better operation atalanta. we need to stop fishing vessels being just vulnerable vessels, we need to protect fishing vessels and we need to extend the area where protection is offered. and above all, we need a solution on land, because it is on land that the problem is generated: democratic balance - that is what the commission has said - and we asked the commission whether it would be willing to promote a summit on piracy in the area, to try to find solutions on land to what is happening at sea.
i too, of course, celebrate the happy ending of the alakrana case, but i fear that, unfortunately, it may not be the last. it is important to remember that, as has been said, pirates feed precisely on poverty, but also on the failures of the system and the loopholes of a system that does not work. while it is sad and regrettable that seafarers are being kidnapped who were, after all, just doing their jobs, it is also sad that there are those who 'take advantage of this situation of misgovernment not only in somalia but in the area' and go fishing illegally or dump pollutant waste in their waters. because this, mr. de grandes, has unfortunately happened. we condemn any act of piracy, without a doubt. but fighting this phenomenon requires more than soldiers and mercenaries. in fact, to reduce everything to this may even be counterproductive, since it could lead to a worrying escalation of the conflict, especially when we know that some shipowners, precisely in order to maximize their presence in the area, take greater risks and move further away from the protected areas, which, of course, entails a risk that is always very difficult to cope with.
madam president, if there is illegality in fishing in the indian ocean, it can certainly never be applied to the community fleet, as some people have pointed out here. and i will say the following: the community fleet operates within the strictest legality, with licences under the european union-seychelles fisheries agreement and under the indian ocean tuna commission, which regulates and manages tuna fishing in these waters. secondly, all community vessels are equipped with a satellite monitoring system, by which they are located in real time and at all times by the fishing and military authorities. thirdly, the community fleet also embarks observers and complies with a strict regime of reporting on fishing activity through fishing log books, sampling of landings and prohibition of transhipment at sea, among other measures. finally, the entire community fleet is duly registered in the regional fleet register of the indian ocean tuna commission and i would like both the commission and the council to confirm that the european fleet operating in these waters is operating within the strictest legality.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the idea that we can, at national level - even at regional level - tackle these problems is over. cooperation between the european union and the international labour organisation is therefore a crucial point on our agenda. the ilo, with its tripartite method, is doing an irreplaceable job of bringing coherence and rationality to our world. our values are the values of the ilo since its founding. they and we work for a social model that gives people dignity, and we believe that we can both collaborate. it is clear that europe needs the ilo to maintain the social model - we could not maintain our social model in an unjust world - and it is clear that the ilo also offers us the opportunity to be a global player in the whole of international relations. it is therefore clear that the european union and the member states are declaring that they are very close and that they are acting in favour of the decent work programme and in favour of the global jobs pact, which is being led by the ilo. but, commissioners, it is also true that there is not enough coherence between what the members say, what you say, what we say and what we do. it is therefore very important to speak tonight - and tomorrow to adopt a resolution - on the ratification of the ilo's legislative instruments, to give guarantees to the ilo and to give guarantees to our own project as well. you, in your communication on the new social agenda, once again called on the member states, but the member states do not respond to that call; you called for the ratification and implementation of the conventions. and this appeal has had little success; they will probably now have to proceed with much more ambitious action. it is not that the member states have already ratified the core ilo conventions. the ilo has caught up and there are seventy ilo conventions, and there are third world countries and developing economies that are going faster than the european union itself. this raises a question of poor understanding on the part of the rest of the world. europe is losing credibility; it is losing opportunities. that is why, commissioners, it is a bit scandalous that europe should speak in favour of decent work, speak in favour of the ilo, and then we should not ratify the ilo conventions and simply be satisfied with any rhetorical statement. hence this question. and that is why, tomorrow, all the groups in this house want you to say something else; to make a communication and to call on the member states to ratify the conventions, so that there is consistency between what we say and what we do. because politics lacks that coherence, and that is one of the reasons why we are losing credibility with the citizens, and that is one of the reasons why europe, too, is losing credibility with the world as a whole.
madam president, commissioner, the world faces two great challenges, two long-term challenges: the fight against the effects of climate change and the fight against poverty and hunger in the world. the commissioner has given the figures, and other members have also given them. they are in the final declaration of the fao summit: more than a billion people in the world suffer from hunger and 40 million die every year as a result of poverty. the food crisis first and the financial crisis second are taking us further away from the achievement of the millennium development goals. we're not moving forward, we're moving backwards. the challenges are long-term, but the answers are urgent, they are needed now. however, in recent weeks we have received worrying news: the reluctance of the big emitters to take decisions at the copenhagen summit and the lack of leadership and concrete action at the fao summit in rome. the problems we have are worrying, but the lack of capacity to act is no less so. humanity has progressed because we have identified the challenges, we have known what the answers were, and we have acted. at this point we also know what we are up against, but we have lost the ability to act. that is why i support the resolution calling for action in this parliament, and urgent action.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs mcguinness on this initiative, which highlights the important role played by the cap in meeting the needs of the international food supply. now that the european commission seems to want to reduce the weight of the cap in the community budget, it must be said loud and clear that the cap is no longer a priority, but food sufficiency should be, and in the past decades it has been shown that without the cap food sufficiency is very difficult, if not impossible, to achieve. agriculture cannot therefore be compared with other sectors of the economy that can thrive in a free market, because the food market is not a free market. the farmer needs the support of the european union to be able to run his business and the union needs the farmer to maintain an agricultural model capable of providing sufficient and quality food to an increasingly demanding citizen. i therefore believe that the cap should change course, but not disappear. this would require guaranteeing direct aid to farmers and restoring a policy of managing agricultural markets that would bring greater price stability, which would have repercussions for the benefit not only of farmers but also of consumers and third countries. a framework of good practices should be established to promote balanced relations between the different actors in the food chain, avoiding abusive practices and promoting a fairer distribution of trade margins. in addition, a policy of information to the european consumer is needed which emphasises the efforts made by community producers to comply with european union legislation on the environment, food safety and animal welfare, because community producers have to compete with products from third countries where much lower standards apply to such imports. and these third country producers prefer to export to the european union rather than supply their own markets for reasons of profitability, with the endorsement of the wto negotiations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the recent conclusion of the summit on food security, i would like to express my disappointment at the slight social, media and political impact of the event. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when we talk about food security, agriculture and development, we often forget the question of water and its scarcity, a fundamental problem of the present and, above all, of the future. in the current context of economic and environmental crisis, we need more than ever a commitment from developed countries to articulate a new international forum for reflection, at the highest level, with the aim of consolidating water as a public good, sharing technologies and developing efficient, sustainable and economically viable water management systems. if we don't take care of water, we can never cope with the fight against hunger.
member of the commission. madam president, i apologize that, as this is a very interesting and multifaceted subject, i shall be a little lengthy in my introduction for the benefit of honourable members of this house. the commission has in place a robust set of eu animal and public health requirements for meat coming from third countries. for a number of years, the eu has maintained a very effective import policy which takes into account scientific developments and the current disease situation in third countries. in particular, it pays close attention to foot-and-mouth disease in exporting third countries because, as you know, the eu is free of this disease, which has the potential to cause serious economic damage. very detailed standards and requirements have been established at the level of the world organisation for animal health to prevent the spread of fmd. the wto agreement on sanitary and phytosanitary measures recognises that, while countries may use different standards and different methods of inspecting products, this does not necessarily increase the animal and public health risks. the eu cannot impose an exact replica of our internal legislative measures on third countries, just as third countries, to which we export, cannot impose their own national rules on us. we can only require that their measures have an equivalent effect to ours. let me take traceability as an example. in the eu we have very stringent rules on the individual identification and traceability of cattle. in the event of a disease outbreak, our rules facilitate the tracing of potentially infected animals to limit the spread of the disease. in addition, our rules allow us to trace and follow food or feed through all stages of production and distribution from farm to table. on the other hand, traceability rules applying to third countries exporting to the eu are aimed solely at ensuring that imported meat does not pose unacceptable risks for the eu. the scope of these rules is therefore much more limited than the rules in force in the eu. i would also like to stress the fact that the measures on traceability of cattle in the eu were adopted largely in response to the bse crisis which, as you recall, caused a dramatic drop in consumer confidence and major disruption of the internal market in relation to trade in beef. let me now take this opportunity to explain in more detail the extremely effective cascade of risk mitigation measures that we have in place for beef imports and which ensure the highest possible level of protection for eu public and animal health, while taking into account oie standards and remaining fully in line with the principles of the sps agreement. these measures can be grouped into five main levels of protection. they are so comprehensive that only 12 third countries outside europe are able to meet all these requirements, and consequently we only import beef from these few countries. firstly, imports of beef are only allowed from third countries or from certain parts of these countries which have been specifically authorised following a commission inspection to verify the competence of their veterinary authorities and the animal health situation in general. secondly, the territory of origin of bovine animals must be recognised as free of fmd by the oie and the european union. third, beef exporting countries must have an approved monitoring plan for specific residues from veterinary medical products, growth promoters and performance enhancers which are restricted or banned in food-producing animals in the eu. fourth, all imports of fresh meat must come from an approved slaughterhouse that has been authorised and listed for that specific purpose. fifth, we have specific conditions concerning meat production and storage. we have an additional layer of protection by only allowing bone in meat to come from australia, canada, chile, new zealand and the united states. for the seven other authorised countries, only deboned and matured beef without offal can be exported to the european union. this treatment ensures the inactivation of the fmd virus, should it still be present despite all the previous measures i have described, thus providing an additional safeguard. consignments of meat destined for the eu market must be certified by an official veterinarian who guarantees that all of the above conditions are fully met. when the meat consignment arrives in the eu, checks are carried out by the official veterinary services of the member states at our border inspection points. all imported meat must undergo mandatory veterinary checks at eu borders. the border inspection posts are obliged to carry out documentary, identity and physical checks. imported meat is subject to 100% documentary and identity checks at border inspection posts. in addition, a physical veterinary check is carried out on a minimum of 20% of all consignments of imported meat. furthermore, we have an additional level of protection through our ban on feeding swill or catering waste to animals throughout the eu. this measure ensures that susceptible species in the eu are not exposed to the fmd virus should it enter the eu despite all the previous measures i have described. all the measures i have described are fully harmonised. in 2006, the european food safety authority recognised that these measures are very effective at reducing the risk of fmd entering the eu. in its opinion, efsa stated, the eu thus has a sophisticated import control system in place. these efforts appear to be very effective with regard to legal trade in meat and meat products. this brings me to my next point. since the harmonization of veterinary import conditions in the 1970s, we have never had an outbreak of fmd in the eu through the legal import of meat. i am sure i do not need to remind you that the outbreak of fmd in the uk in 2001 was caused by the illegal introduction of meat most probably from asia and the illegal use of swill feeding. i therefore believe that we should focus our efforts on where the real risks are, and target illegal introductions or personal imports rather than trying to excessively regulate legal imports. in this respect i hope you have all seen the posters in eu airports and at other points of entry into the eu explaining to travellers the rules concerning the introduction of products of animal origin. i am aware that some of you have expressed concern as regards our imports of beef from brazil. i would like to remind you that additional requirements were established for imports of brazilian beef in january last year. these include, in addition to all the requirements i have already outlined, that the farms of origin are audited and approved by the brazilian authorities. the brazilian authorities now also require that bovine animals whose meat is destined for the eu market are individually identified and registered in a database. these animals represent less than 1.5% of the total brazilian bovine population, amounting to about 2.9 million animals in approved holdings. as a consequence, the brazilian authorities reassessed holdings wishing to produce beef meat for export to the eu. from a total number of more than 10 000 holdings eligible for export in november 2007, only 1 708 farms are currently approved. as a consequence, eu imports of brazilian beef have dropped dramatically. in early 2009, some deficiencies were identified during a commission inspection, and the brazilian authorities demonstrated full cooperation to address these deficiencies. in any case, the overall findings did not justify any further restriction on imports of beef from brazil. as things stand, imposing further restrictions on imports of beef from brazil could be interpreted as protectionism by some, and could lead to a challenge to our measures at the wto. we also need to bear in mind that the eu will have to face, from time to time, animal health or food safety problems, and we insist that third countries react in a proportionate manner to these problems. we should lead by example, therefore playing by the rules governing international trade. i would like to conclude by assuring the house that the commission will continue to target illegal introductions which present the greatest risk to our high standards. the commission will also maintain its current proportional approach towards imports of beef from third countries, including brazil. these will ensure we maintain our high level of public and animal health in the eu and that the eu retains its respectability at international level.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, the european union imposes the highest standards in the world on community producers in terms of food safety, health, animal welfare and the environment. european farmers are obliged to comply with these standards as a precondition for receiving union support. for the vast majority, this support does not compensate for these high costs, and there is a rapid rate of abandonment of farms. this process will be unstoppable if adequate measures are not taken. but, let's get to the point. the growing deficit in european production is being covered, of course, by imports from third countries, with brazil in the lead. given the pressure on community farmers, it would be completely dishonest to allow meat consignments to enter the community market which do not comply with the minimum requirements agreed by the european union with third countries. i would also like to point out that these requirements are lower than those imposed on our own farmers, because it would seem to be contrary to the world trade organisation to impose exactly the same standards on imports from third countries. but since this world trade organisation prevents us from extending to imports the same standards as european farmers, the commission should at least ensure that all meat crossing community borders comes from farms which have been properly controlled. it would make no sense to impede imports from countries like brazil, because there is already a community demand that must be met; but that does not justify turning a blind eye, turning a blind eye, to irregularities that the food and veterinary office of the european union may detect in its regular inspections. i would like the commission to answer why it is so interested in minimising these irregularities, when the veterinary office has confirmed, in its last mission to brazil, that certain certification establishments do not meet the required control standards. the european office also revealed major weaknesses in the traceability system applied by that country and identified problems in numerous consignments in transit to the european union which were not accompanied by their certificates. in view of these figures, how can it be guaranteed that the 1 500 brazilian farms comply with the requirements signed?
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission must continue to monitor imports from third countries to ensure that they comply with european rules, a control which benefits us all: our farmers and livestock farmers, who have made a great effort to comply with european rules, our consumers, who increasingly demand quality agricultural and livestock products, products which comply with plant health, animal welfare and traceability rules, and also third countries wishing to export their products to the european union. finally, i would like to remind you that this problem is not confined to one sector or one country. the problem of the competitiveness of european agriculture is a complex one which requires an in-depth debate.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr da silva caldeira in particular for presenting this report of the court of auditors, which has gone from being an exercise in scandal and appeal to euro-phobia to being a truly constructive exercise, with clear messages of encouragement for the capacity for improvement, both of the european institutions and of the member states, suggesting to them precisely the instruments necessary for that improvement. and all this without losing a single bit of the court's growing rigor and professionalism, which, moreover, has been the first to apply all the principles so precisely stated by mr da silva caldeira. since the historic moment in which i have lived in cocobu, i am grateful for the changes introduced, because they are of great help to us. i would also like to congratulate mr kallas, of course, because he has also been able to listen to the european parliament's demands from cocobu, in a task which was not easy. the management control system is making its way and we can only hope that it will spread and deepen. i support the statement you made not long ago that you have achieved the best sda in history, but even if it is a success story for the three institutions we have here, the court of auditors, the commission and parliament, there is still a long way to go. for example, we are still concerned about the apparent contradictions in the report between the court of auditors and the commission in such an important area as budget support and the alignment with national reform plans. the control of the third pillar of the edf, the joint management with other bodies - my colleagues from the united nations, the african union, etc. have already said this - which represents between 6 and 7% of the edf, is also very worrying this year and certainly requires the use of or the finding of efficient formulas to put an end to this intolerable opacity. as regards staff, there is again excessive turnover and temporariness, which leads to the loss of the historical memory so necessary in this type of programme. the systematic checks carried out by the delegations are also lacking. there are also - and this is what the court says - significant errors and a high incidence of non-quantifiable errors, which should be improved. we are also encouraged by the way in which the commission and the court of auditors have worked together to arrive at a definition of the margin of error, which seems to us to be a good way forward.
madam president, the votes of the spanish socialist delegation on kosovo confirm the international non-recognition of the unilateral declaration of kosovo as an independent state.
in writing. - with regard to the resolution on the commission's 2009 strategy paper on enlargement, we want to make it clear, on behalf of the spanish epp delegation, that the fact that we have supported it overall does not in any way mean that we agree with the recognition of kosovo as an independent state. we regard kosovo as a unique case and we recall that it has not been recognized by spain or by four other member states. for all these reasons, both in the afet committee and today in the house, we have supported amendments which are consistent with our view. our vote in favour of the resolution is due to the fact that we do not want our position on kosovo to be interpreted as a negative attitude towards the enlargement process which now affects the countries of the western balkans, turkey and iceland.
in writing. - i voted against resolution rc-b7-0158/2009 because i believe that piracy is not a military problem but a development problem. i therefore believe that the root of the problem must be tackled and that the solution cannot be military, either by sea or by land. the head of operation atalanta himself declared that a maritime solution to piracy is impossible, that the situation in the area must be stabilized. i believe that the problem of governance, the stability of institutions and the economic development of the region must be addressed. no matter how many patches we put in, the problem will persist. i also want to denounce the privatisation of the shares of the armed forces, because in spain private security companies are allowed to go on ships with war weapons. i also believe that we must stop pirates in somalia, but we must also stop foreign pirates who ply somali waters.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, in the same vein, i think it is not only sad but clearly shameful that such an important session as this, the emergency session, should be manipulated in the way it is being manipulated, and that is why i am surprised not only that the subject today is this one, nicaragua, but that on other occasions when we should have been talking about much more serious things, nothing has been done. today, moreover, we have the added fact that other items on the agenda have been dropped precisely because this one has been added, which is absolutely inappropriate from the point of view of the content of the debates on emergencies. we could and should have spoken, for example, about western sahara. we should have spoken about the situation of people like aminatou haidar, who are suffering at the moment from a situation of clear violation and deprivation of their most fundamental rights, or of the many, many people who are in refugee camps or in the occupied zones in morocco, precisely in a context where a clear position is needed. all this could have been the subject of today's debate, but it is not, because the people's party is making us talk about a subject which i clearly believe neither deserves nor has the interest that must be accorded to it in this type of session.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first outline the state of play in eu-china relations. our policy towards china is one of constructive engagement. as two major actors on the global stage, our strategic partnership is increasingly focused on addressing global challenges. a key goal of the 12th eu-china summit, to be held on 30 november in nanjing, will precisely be to work together to ensure success for the copenhagen climate summit and to address eu-china relations, including human rights, the financial and economic crisis and other international issues. but a strategic partnership is not about thinking alike on each and every matter. it is true that europe and china may disagree and have different views on some issues, such as on human rights and democracy. the strength of our relationship allows us to discuss these matters frankly. human rights issues, including the death penalty and respect for the fundamental rights of ethnic minorities, are systematically raised during our regular political contacts and, in particular, during our human rights dialogue with the chinese authorities. this was the case during the recent 28th round on 20 november in beijing, where we had a frank discussion on these issues. the eu’s principled opposition to the death penalty and the call for its abolition in china are robustly conveyed on all occasions. the same is also true for the respect of the rights of ethnic minorities. let me reassure this house that we will also continue to raise those issues in other fora, including at the highest level. my colleague commissioner ferrero-waldner had an extensive debate with you on tibet in march, where she outlined the eu’s position. i would like to recall some essential elements that the eu position encompasses. we have always supported the dialogue between the chinese authorities and the representatives of the dalai lama. for the eu, human rights are universal, and the situation in tibet is a legitimate concern of the international community. tibet’s situation has invariably been approached as such. we have consistently passed this message to our chinese counterparts and listened very carefully to their views. commissioner ashton also had the opportunity to express, here in july, her concern over the unrest in xinjiang, deplore the loss of life and express her condolences and sympathy to the families of the victims. the eu supports any effort that will help reconciliation in this region. the eu respects china’s right to bring those responsible for violent action to justice but reaffirms its long-standing universal opposition to the use of the death penalty, under all circumstances, as well as the importance it attaches to the right to have a fair trial. the eu has raised these concerns repeatedly with the chinese authorities and reiterates its concerns in the two declarations published on 29 october and on 13 november, as it always does in such situations. the statements called on china to commute any other death penalties passed in connection with the disturbances in tibet and xinjiang. moreover, the eu will continue to press to be allowed to observe any further trials arising from tibet and the xinjiang disturbances. we all share the goal of a more open, transparent china, adhering to international standards on human rights and working together to address global challenges. we all hoped that the olympic games would be the start of more chinese flexibility with respect to the human rights of individuals. up to now, this has not materialised. we must continue to work on the development of our strategic partnership and the respect of human rights as an integral part of our continued dialogue. the 12th eu-china summit in beijing is a privileged occasion to do so at an important stage of our respective evolution.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would like to emphasize that our group is here, is present, but for the same reason as the socialist group, we have decided not to take part in the vote to show our opposition to the debate and the votes.
mr president, i want to denounce in this house the continuing provocations, outrages and threats by the president of venezuela, hugo chávez, who, with his dictatorial ways of governing, is threatening, among other things, freedom of expression in venezuela and the democratic order in latin america. chávez has closed thirty radio channels, closed television channels, threatened and sanctioned journalists in venezuela because they are not addicted to the caudillist regime of hugo chávez. for all this, mr president, we must also remember that while venezuela is suffering from power cuts, water cuts, food shortages and poverty is growing because of the mismanagement of the chavista government, the venezuelan leader, in an attempt to cover up all these hardships, is blowing up border bridges and threatening colombia, praising international terrorists, aligning himself with the dictator-satraps of the world, and his words and speeches are continuous provocations and war cries to destabilize the american continent. that is why this parliament, which is always committed to freedom and democracy in every part of the world, must strongly condemn the caudillist and dictatorial policies of hugo chávez in venezuela.
mr president, i would like to denounce the deep economic crisis that the catalan and the european nut sector have been suffering for several years. the continuous fall of nut prices threatens the future of our european producers. i would like to warn you about the non-interventionist policy of the turkish government. there are 500 000 tonnes of nuts stored by the turkish public body for nut purchasing. this body wants to sell off these 500 000 tonnes of nuts in january 2010. in the light of what the turkish authorities said at a bilateral meeting with the european union on 2 october 2009, such a situation would seriously damage european producers, with a new dramatic drop in nut prices. i asked the european commission about this question two months ago, but none of the existing special safeguard provisions will be applied to protect our producers. these are the worries i wanted to share with you.
mr president, in honduras, as everyone knows, there was a coup d'état on 28 june last. almost six months have passed and this parliament has still not found the time to condemn that coup; moreover, some meps from the people's party and the group of european conservatives and reformists have visited the country to endorse with their presence the consequences of that coup; to endorse with their support, by confusing the european parliament with political groups, elections administered by a de facto government and held under conditions which did not guarantee their legitimacy. a perverse precedent is being created through the honduran coup, as from now on, temporary relatively bloodless soft coups are going to be not only accepted by the continental right, but applauded and encouraged by the european and north american right. it is very regrettable what has happened to honduras!
mr president, clinical trials are a reference method in clinical research and the source of information considered to be the most reliable on which to base therapeutic decisions. but i would like to alert the house to the fact that a recent study by the european society of cardiology once again shows serious limitations in this methodology as a result of the low participation of women in these trials. the differences between men and women in risk factors, disease presentation and response to treatment have been scientifically proven. the result is that the spectacular achievements in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease in recent years have not translated into a significant reduction in mortality among women. it is therefore essential that we, from the european institutions, promote research specifically directed at women, either by including them extensively in clinical studies or by producing studies exclusively on the female population.
madam president, the agricultural sector has not been immune to the difficulties of the economy as a whole. we had the opportunity to discuss the situation of milk producers a few months ago, but many of us already pointed out that the crisis was making its mark on other sectors of agriculture. the situation in the sector as a whole is difficult, with low prices at source for most products and many farms starting to fall below the threshold of profitability. this situation has highlighted the imbalance between the actors in the agri-food value chain; the need to make the price formation system transparent and to rebalance, within the existing legislation, the negotiating capacity of the parties are still outstanding issues. another issue which concerns us in this difficult context is the decline in the competitiveness of our farmers, who, unlike their competitors, bear high production costs. what i am asking for is that common support measures be articulated and that solutions are not based on the response capacity of each member state.
madam president, madam commissioner, i am concerned that often the lack of coordination means that sustainability criteria do not apply to agriculture. i want to ask two questions: first, in a process of desertification like we know in southern europe, with the tremendous impact of climate change, knowing that land use is the most important thing, why is it paying to uproot trees, olive trees or vineyards? it means that europe is paying for more desert! are you going to stop this? secondly, the agreement with morocco: if europe is to pursue a common foreign policy, it must defend the interests of its citizens and of european production. the agreement with morocco is being negotiated by europe on its knees, without taking into account the principle of reciprocity, without guaranteeing health and the maintenance of insecticide and food quality programmes. how is it possible that in this process not only is the door opened to products above quota, but also quality is at stake?
mr president, the situation in the agricultural sector is not only worrying, i would say it is an unsustainable situation: farmers' incomes are falling; there is a growing gap between what the farmer receives and the market price for the consumer; the generational changeover is already a utopia; the association agreements are repeatedly breached, as in the shameful case of the moroccan tomato, a situation which has been acknowledged by the european anti-fraud office itself, without any decisive action by the commission; and the plant health rules and controls are applied with varying intensity, creating absolutely unfair situations. if we add to this specific cases, such as the reduction in the banana tariff, which will have absolutely negative consequences, or the inability of farmers to cope with the costs of inputs, you will agree with me that the future of the sector in question is at least uncertain. if, moreover, this agricultural activity is carried out in the outermost regions, it is not only uncertain but extremely worrying. farmers want to continue farming, but it is getting harder every day. the commission must take on the importance of agriculture. face it without any complexes!
mr president, i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr lindblad, on behalf of the council, and in particular commissioner šemeta, who has been dealing with the budget for only a few months and who i sincerely believe has done a great job and has been able to find an important consensus solution for the november conciliation. that is why i would like to congratulate the commissioner in particular. it is the last year of this budgetary procedure; i think the system is completely exhausted and the political groups have to give very serious thought in the coming months to how we are going to achieve a new budgetary procedure in line with the lisbon realities. let me give you an example. this year we have had discussions in the agricultural area that have been virtual, as every year, but that have had a real result. next year, the discussions will be real from the outset because we will have codecision and therefore that will be an exercise of responsibility for all members. finally, it will be a real budget and it will be a budget - as mr lamassoure said a moment ago - in which the council can no longer be made to decide brilliantly on new budget items at summits outside this house, after which the european commission and the european parliament will have to come along and play financial magic to get those new and brilliant promises made by the council into the budget. that is over and what we are waiting for from 1 january next year is an exercise of responsibility by all the institutional actors to really achieve budgets which reflect the political reality and the economic and financial situation of europe.
mr president, i think we should welcome the outcome of the negotiations between parliament and the council for the final adoption of the union's budget for 2010. we are also happy that we have managed to maintain the milk fund which we approved in this parliament at first reading and which can help our farmers to cope with these times of crisis. i hope that we can find a final solution and that you can see the light soon. we can also congratulate ourselves on the fact that a microfinance mechanism for the european union has been agreed to be financed with fresh money, and we can also congratulate ourselves on something that seems obvious but is hardly mentioned: agricultural expenditure and expenditure on cohesion, which are the two most important policies of the european union, have not been called into question. and this, in fact, is something we can now consider a success. congratulations, especially, because we have found eur 2.4 billion in fresh money to finance the second part of the european economic recovery plan. but all this congratulatory sentiment hides, at bottom, a much less pleasant reality: there is no money to finance the policies we have all committed to the union, or rather there is money, but there seems to be an unshakable dogma in the council: not a single euro more than was approved in 2006 for the current financial framework. and this, mr president-in-office, is not budgetary austerity, it is economic and political myopia. just over a year ago, the european commission proposed an economic recovery plan for the european union. it was a relatively modest plan compared with what we had in the member states, but it insisted on strengthening the future sectors of our economies. the council was opposed in principle because it was proposed to increase the financial framework by eur 5 billion. after long negotiations and discussions you accepted the plan, but we had to do it in two years. and they have made the european commission have to do some creative accounting watermarks so that that money can be used but it's barely noticeable in the financial framework. we are bombarded with words like transparency, simplification, but the commission has had to give us a nice outline so that those of us who are concerned with the budget can understand its proposal. i challenge you, mr president-in-office, to explain this agreement to a citizen who is still interested in what we do in the european parliament. we are not creating the europe close to the citizens that we all want. i do not say this to criticize, but because, as long as the council does not change its policy, the construction of europe will be halted. we have just signed a treaty, but we need a new spirit: either we stop thinking that every new euro spent in europe is a waste or we join the eurosceptics. we are going to adopt a resolution next thursday calling for a review of the financial framework to meet the new needs of the union. i fully share this view. but i warn you that a review of the financial framework must be upward. the new needs cannot be financed by cutting back on current priorities. and to be clear - and i will end with this - we do not intend to accept cuts in either cohesion or agricultural policies.
thank you, dear colleague gallagher. as vice-president responsible for multilingualism, i want to express to you our satisfaction at hearing your gaelic language spoken in our chamber.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the conclusions of the foreign affairs council on the middle east peace process, in particular the situation in east jerusalem.
mr president, the fact is that we are facing a very unique debate because, on the one hand, we have mrs malmström sitting on the council benches - we hope to see her sitting on the commission benches soon - and mrs ashton sitting on the commission benches. we'll see where he sits! in any case, mr president, the council's conclusions are not exactly encouraging. the council expressed its deep concern at the lack of progress in the middle east peace process and called for its resumption on the basis of the un security council resolutions, the conclusions of the madrid conference and the road map. nothing new under the sun. it also tells us that the european union is ready to make its essential contribution to the problems which the two speakers have raised here: the problem of east jerusalem, the water problem, the security problem and the border problem. but, mr president, there are a number of new elements on which i would like our guests to comment. firstly, i would like to know whether, in your opinion, the issue of the eight-month moratorium, the issue of the settlements decided by the israeli government, is linked to the new us government. i would also like to know what you think of the statements made yesterday in gaza by the representative of hamas on the 22nd anniversary, in the sense that they do not intend to make any concessions to israel and that they do not intend to recognise it. what is your opinion of the continuity law which will transfer the floor to israeli citizens through a referendum on the issue of the occupation of the occupied territories? and finally, what do you think of the goldstone report and its approval by the un human rights council? do you consider it to be a factor in the peace process or, on the contrary, as israel claims, an element that hinders or hinders the peace process?
mr president, i think that the recent european union position led by the swedish presidency on the middle east that would recognise east jerusalem as the capital of a future independent palestinian state may harm european efforts to play a significant part in mediating between israel and the palestinians. it might be counterproductive with our common objective to bring peace to this already turbulent region. i personally believe that rather than unilaterally and unexpectedly announcing an independent capital for the palestinian territories it would be preferable and more useful if the european union would concentrate all its efforts on encouraging and pushing for the creation of a real democracy in the palestinian territories, for example supporting non-violent opposition. this would help the israeli state and democracy, as well as the international community to find a credible and legitimate interlocutor. as cecilia malmström has said today the status of jerusalem should be negotiated bilaterally by israelis and palestinians. i therefore believe that rather than a ‘two states for two peoples’ solution, a ‘two democracies for two peoples’ vision would be more desirable. democracy, dear colleagues, is a precondition for peace.
mr president, on specific restrictive measures, the freezing of funds of persons and entities linked to al qaeda and against members of the governments of zimbabwe and somalia, the commission and the council stated on 5 november that, once the treaty of lisbon enters into force, these proposals would be based on article 215 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and not article 75. article 215 provides that the council shall inform parliament of decisions providing for the interruption or reduction of economic relations, etc., but article 75 makes it clear that, where necessary to achieve the objectives set out in article 67, parliament and the council shall define, that is to say, co-decide, regulatory measures to freeze funds, assets or profits held, owned or held by natural or legal persons, groups or entities, in connection with terrorist activities. article 67 also sets out the objectives of the foundations of the area of freedom, security and justice. it therefore seems clear that, with regard to persons or entities linked to terrorist activities, the legal basis for the council's proposals for regulations should be article 75. as regards zimbabwe and somalia, the council and the commission could also consider the stuttgart solemn declaration, which provides for the optional consultation of parliament on international affairs, even where the treaties do not provide for this. it is, in short, a question of making my position clear, mr president: to claim the role of parliament's co-legislator, here and now, and to ask the council and the commission for a more reasonable explanation. that's all for now.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i know that there is a very strong commitment to this issue. those of you who have followed this closely will also know that the swedish presidency has devoted a great deal of time to georgia. last thursday, foreign minister carl bildt had the opportunity to discuss georgia with you in the foreign affairs committee. the eu will continue to provide substantial support, both political, technical and financial, to georgia. in all likelihood, this will mean continued calls for respect for georgia's territorial sovereignty and integrity, a continuation of the eu's monitoring mission, and our very important mediating role in the geneva talks. the geneva talks are the relevant platform. the talks there are slow, but they are progressing nonetheless and all parties are represented. we will also provide additional financial assistance for the aftermath of the conflict. as many of you have pointed out, the humanitarian situation remains very worrying. mairead mcguinnes is right, of course, when she points out that the most vulnerable suffer from this. in meetings with russian dialogue partners, the eu will continue to emphasise the need to implement the six-point ceasefire agreement and the subsequent implementation measures withdrawal of forces to the positions on 7 august 2008. perevi, alchagori and upper kodori will be specifically mentioned, as many of you have. the closure of the osce mission in georgia and the un observer mission removed crucial elements of the important international security architecture. the only remaining international presence today is the eu monitoring mission. it makes a significant contribution to security and to normalisation. this is why it is so important that the monitoring mission has access to the outbreak areas. it is important for the security and stability of georgia. this is an important point which the eu continues to stress with all relevant interlocutors. the eu is of course firm in its support for georgia's territorial integrity, but we also have a strategic interest in having contacts with the breakaway regions and keeping a window on the outside world open for the people of these separatist areas. this can help us to eventually lay the foundations for a solution to the conflict through continued eu engagement and confidence-building measures across administrative borders and through contacts between the populations. the eu will continue to be very active in this area. the commission and commissioner benita ferrero-waldner are very much involved, as is the european parliament, for which i am very grateful.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all, thank you for the frank discussion that we have had today. i thought that many of you knew what we have been doing for georgia. georgia has received a lot of support from us, both political and also economic and humanitarian, but it seems as if we have not done anything. this is not true at all. first of all, the war was stopped by the european union and by mr sarkozy. second, you are right, there is a six-point plan which unfortunately has not yet been fully implemented, but every time we work with the russians this is on our agenda. this is absolutely clear. it is right, as the council president said, that the only platform where we really start to go on, even slowly, is in geneva, and so the geneva talks have to go on. we also need support and openness from both sides, because it is a difficult conflict and we are, so to speak, the mediators in this conflict. this is the number one political issue. we do have to continue and we know very well that russia is a huge partner on the other side. at the same time, we have a common neighbourhood, and therefore we always speak quite clearly about these issues with russia. we do need, as i said here, the attitude on both sides to go forward, which is what i said in my speech if you will recall. this is the first point. the second concerns the economic and humanitarian front, where we are working very closely indeed. the eur 500 million package was the biggest package i could bring through. there is not so much money in the neighbourhood policy that i could have gone for, but this is what we did because we thought georgia needed that after the war and all the damage that had been done – particularly for the most vulnerable. i myself have visited the idp camps and i have visited the houses that have been restored with our programmes. i can tell mrs lunacek that i myself signed an agreement with the georgians where they absolutely commit themselves to not using one cent of the european union money. we always control our money, so normally there should not be a cent of our money going to re-arming on the georgian side. i cannot, of course, control what georgia is doing on other issues, but on our money i can be clear. there are other things that have been mentioned. for instance, the two teenagers that are still in detention in south ossetia. these are issues that we do of course mention to the russians. we talk about them, but for the moment, unfortunately, we have no solution to it and we ourselves cannot enter south ossetia. as regards the principle, of course we are clear on the principle. there is territorial integrity and there is sovereignty, and this is what we clearly say of georgia. absolutely. it is, however, one thing to speak about principles and another thing to implement these principles immediately. this, unfortunately, is sometimes quite difficult. let me also speak about the tagliavini report. the very fact that this report has been publicised is a very important one. you know we supported this independent report. i have known mrs tagliavini for ages from when i was osce chairperson-in-office in the year 2000 as foreign minister of my country. she was then my special representative for the caucasus. she is a very courageous, independent lady, and i must say she has made an excellent report. this also helps because the report has made the facts clear. we draw the lessons from that, but we can only continue helping georgia by diplomatic means. having said all of that, i can also say that we have been doing an enormous amount of work first on the neighbourhood policy to the east, and now on the eastern partnership. the other day we had a very important ministerial meeting under the swedish presidency with the six foreign ministers of the eastern partnership including the foreign minister from georgia. there, we also discussed all the possibilities, but would you really think that we can give everything to every country without them doing their part? we cannot. we have to ask them also to do their part. that also means on trade, as a free and deep trade agreement can only be there when the right legislation is there. we cannot just ask them to come into the european union if the council is not unanimous on it. these are things where one has to see one side and the other, but we are supporting georgia more than anybody else. so i would rather hope that this policy, as some have said, is really supported by you. this is a policy where we try to help them as much as we can, but we also want to see the right behaviour from georgia.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the responses to give a new impetus to the economy in the member states of the european union in central and eastern europe.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank mr verhofstadt, who is at the origin of this debate, and all those who have spoken in it. i really appreciate your input and your ideas. let me begin with a sentence that mr verhofstadt has said. he said that the fact that there are countries in central and eastern europe that are not part of the euro area sets up a 'rideau de fer' (an iron curtain). i do not agree, because among the countries of central and eastern europe which are not yet in the euro there are extraordinarily difficult economic situations, but there are also other economic situations which are no more difficult than those of more mature, more advanced economies, with many more years of membership of the european union, which have been receiving funding from the european investment bank, from the structural funds, which are within the euro area and which have problems equal to or sometimes more serious than many of the economies of the countries of central and eastern europe. the problem is not therefore a steel curtain - which has not existed for 20 years - and the problem is not that the instruments available to the european union are not being used in that region, because they are being used, as i said in my initial speech. some members have alluded to this, others seem to ignore that there are instruments being used much more intensively than we could have imagined in 2007 when this crisis began. the problem is not, with all due respect, and we have discussed this many times in this house, how the criteria for joining the euro are interpreted. that's not the problem. the same house has criticised those who decided to admit some current members of the euro area when it was not clear whether the conditions were met at the time. what we are seeing today is that economies that are not well prepared to deal with a crisis like this suffer the most, inside the euro area and outside the euro area. and that's the problem we should be concerned about. do we need to cooperate more? should the european instruments be strengthened? i'm sure you do. the commission asks the council to do so, the commission asks the parliament to do so. parliament is asking the commission to do the same, and i am asking parliament to ask the council to do the same, because the commission's proposal that the european social fund's activities in the countries benefiting from the european social fund in 2009 and 2010 be financed 100% by european resources is a commission proposal which the council has not wanted to accept. tell me, i'll be pleased. this is the last time i am present as commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, and i want to convey your position, which is also my own, to the ecofin council. i believe that the structural and cohesion funds must be used in a different way than is normally the case. i'm going back to my mother tongue. i agree with you. we agree with many of the ideas contained in the six points which mr verhofstadt has raised and which he included in a letter to the president of the european commission and also to the president of the european investment bank. in many respects we agree. in many respects we are already acting on their points. i quoted them at the beginning without stopping. but to think that, by using european instruments, we can avoid hard adjustments to deal with the consequences of a recession such as we have suffered, is to ignore the depth of the recession we have suffered, inside the euro area and outside the euro area, in central and eastern europe, and in the most western europe we can imagine, such as, for example, ireland, which is applying a very hard adjustment, not because the international monetary fund tells it to, not because anyone has imposed it on it from brussels, but because the irish authorities consider that this is the best way to adjust their economy as soon as possible and to get ahead with the same dynamism as they had before the crisis. the social consequences of these adjustments concern us and concern me personally, as well as the majority of this parliament. and i can tell you, because it is public knowledge, that the commission, by using the resources of the balance of payments facility, has moderated many of the adjustments proposed by the governments of the countries benefiting from those resources. and we're going to keep doing it. we have tried to preserve the amounts in the national budgets as much as possible in order to be able to co-finance european funds, because otherwise the reductions in investment expenditure which must be used to co-finance european funds would have had very negative consequences in those countries. but we are seeing positive signs and we must also say that in a debate like this. in a debate like this in october 2008 we could not have said that. in december 2009 it must be said that there are positive signs, that the light is beginning to appear at the end of the tunnel, even in the countries that are suffering most from this crisis, such as latvia, lithuania, estonia and ireland. we are still subject to a lot of uncertainty and the obstacles we have to face are very high, but there is light at the end of the tunnel. now, are we going to go back, once the recession is over, to doing the same things we did before the crisis? please, no! and let me say, since this is my last speech on the economy as commissioner for economic affairs in this parliament, let me say five points which are not in mr verhofstadt's six points and which we will all have to discuss. first, the countries of central and eastern europe need, in the light of the experience of this crisis, a more balanced growth model. we cannot rely solely and exclusively on the financing of foreign investment - many of you have spoken of small and mediumsized enterprises, and i agree - and we cannot rely solely and exclusively, or almost exclusively, on foreign banks, because when it comes to monitoring the performance of the financial system it is very difficult to have supervisory authorities and a financial policy that serves the interests of each country, if practically all banks are not from that country and take strategic decisions in accordance with the interests of their country of origin. that said, foreign banks in those countries are behaving extraordinarily well and i have referred to this before. the absorption capacity of the structural funds must be increased. we have offered, in the current financial perspective, which you approved, a very large amount of resources, which can be channelled through the structural funds during this period of financial perspective; in many cases we are not being able to use these resources and there is still room for manoeuvre which can reach in some countries up to four points of their gdp each year: 4% of gdp per year and this money is not being used sufficiently. we need to support much more - and we need to continue to debate how to do it - the integration of infrastructure, and there are bottlenecks, in part of that region, that have not yet been overcome with infrastructure that integrates its economic space and its productive fabric sufficiently with western europe. and finally, the consequences of the crisis are being paid for more in social terms in countries which do not have a sufficient social protection system, which do not have a sufficient welfare state. this is partly because they do not have a sufficient level of growth or income or wealth, but it is also partly because - and it must be said - during the years before the crisis, in some of these countries a tax policy has been implemented, a tax policy, the less the better, and when money is needed to finance public actions there is none, because there is no income. and that is a reflection also for the future.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the experience gained in the application of the food hygiene regulations (ec) no 852/2004, (ec) no 853/2004 and (ec) no 854/2004 of the european parliament and of the council, by horst schnellhardt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) (o-0151/2009 - b7-0237/2009).
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all, i would like to thank everyone for their contributions to this discussion. we consider that the july report serves as a starting point for discussion of possible improvements on the regulations, and in due course the commission will examine the need to make legislative changes. we very much welcome members’ contributions; your inputs are very useful to us for our work to prepare in due course new initiatives. we look forward to continued collaboration with parliament, and also with the member states, with stakeholders, both from the private and public sector, and i am sure that all of us have a common aim of achieving the highest possible level of food safety. this, i think, is the most important conclusion which we can draw from this evening’s discussion.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i would like to add my friend joaquín almunia. the victims of terrorism are the victims of attacks on the democratic values of our societies. these victims, of course, are a manifestation of the human tragedy of terrorism. we have a duty to them to show solidarity, gratitude and support. the commission's role in this area is twofold. first, to ensure that citizens are made aware of the experiences of victims of terrorism, of their suffering, and to increase the representation of their interests at european level. secondly, we must work to ensure that there are no more victims, so that this terrorism can be brought to an end. this is the policy of preventing terrorism. since 2004, the commission has been financially supporting a number of projects aimed at providing victims and their families with the help and social or psychological support they need. these projects are designed to increase the solidarity of european citizens with the victims of terrorism. for 2008 alone, a budget of €2 200 000 has been allocated to this initiative. in addition to these actions, the commission has since 2008 set up a european network of associations of victims of terrorism, which aims to stimulate transnational cooperation between associations of victims of terrorism and to improve the defence of the interests of victims at the level of the european union. we have allocated a budget of 200,000 euros for this. the network works in several directions: assessing the assistance and protection currently offered to these victims, and also promoting activities aimed at disseminating best practice. the activities identified by this network represent a very useful basis for the commission's work. finally, in a context where the protection of citizens must remain at the centre of our policies, the commission wishes to step up action to protect victims. it intends to support measures to encourage testimonies from victims of terrorism. the aim is to raise awareness among european citizens of the reality of terrorism and to prevent it. it should be borne in mind that terrorism is often the result of indoctrination and radicalization. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the commission is therefore considering the development of a charter of the rights of victims of terrorism. i personally share the indignation caused by all these terrorist attacks and our solidarity with the victims of terrorism. madam president, i shall now listen to the speeches of the various members and reply to them as much as i can.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, i wanted to say that most of the world's leaders and citizens remember the victims of terrorism only after a serious attack such as the ones in madrid, new york or london. after the excitement has passed, they tend to forget about the terrorist threat and the rights of the victims. but today there is no doubt about the european union's commitment to the fight against terrorism, a commitment which, as commissioner barrot has just told us, is also reflected in the recently adopted stockholm programme, which recognizes the courage and dignity of the victims and the necessary defence of their rights. despite these advances, the fight against terrorism has always been based on mutual trust and cooperation between states. in view of the prospects offered by the lisbon treaty, i wonder whether it would not be advisable for the european union to promote the harmonization of the laws of the member states on the rights of victims of terrorism. the adoption of a european charter of the rights of victims of terrorism would be a great step forward, helping those who fight terrorism and dealing a blow to those who defend it. because they are the victims, with their courage and dignity, of the greatest failure of terrorism and, consequently, the greatest triumph of democracy. we must never forget that the only weapon the innocent have against terrorism is their word and the recognition of society. so you should not forget either, ladies and gentlemen, that none of us are immune from being the victim of terrorism. my question is therefore: would the commission agree to adopt a european charter recognising the defence and promoting the rights of victims of terrorism? if so, what steps would the new commission take to promote this letter in its new mandate?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his commitment to the european union, which, since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, has finally become part of european policy, subject to european law, and in which this parliament will also play a decisive role. more decisive than ever. this is confirmed by the adoption of the stockholm programme, which in fact includes in its multiannual programming for 2009-2014 an explicit and necessary reference to the dignity of the victims of terrorism, to the suffering caused to them by this terrible form of crime, to their particular vulnerability, but also and above all to the mandate of protection. i therefore think it is worth stressing that, with the spanish presidency in the offing next semester, and with the spanish government and spanish society's determination to fight all forms of terrorism being so constant, so tenacious, it is certain that this will be an occasion to include this harmonisation, this framework programme for the protection of the rights of victims of terrorism, in the action plan which, as a multiannual legislative agenda, will be drawn up by the spanish government and which will subsequently have to be followed up by the successive belgian and hungarian presidencies in the strategy for defining legislation and implementing the objectives of the stockholm programme. i therefore believe that it is time to ratify in this house this determination to protect the victims of terrorism in order to close the circle of combating all forms of terrorism and establishing the necessary dignity of the victims of terrorism, and to make the commitment that, in the stockholm programme, in its legislative agenda and in the action plan which it will be for the spanish presidency to define, the protection of the victims of terrorism will receive the treatment it deserves.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would like to say that this initiative is in line with the amendment which the committee on women's rights and gender equality and i myself tabled to the stockholm programme, because it was not included in the programme. the victims of all kinds of terrorism needed it and, moreover, they are demanding it from us. i've learned a lot about dignity, civicism and suffering from the victims i've worked with over the past few years. and his testimony encourages me to defend a european standard of care for the material, moral and legal needs of victims of terrorism. we have built a common discourse on four pillars. first, to recognize their suffering, to protect them and to accept that they are victims, those who die, those who are injured, but also their families, those who are threatened and their freedom, which is the freedom of all. secondly, to repair the damage caused by material measures, to promote their memory and to advocate that justice be done. thirdly, to humanize the debate on victims, who are people who suffer and who must be protected, defended, recognized, helped and accompanied. we must learn from politics to put ourselves in their shoes. and finally, to depoliticize the debate. we must be generous not to turn terrorism into an electoral business. in europe, people have been killed in the name of religion, marxism, private property, ecology, the independence of a region or the unity of the state that contains it. there have even been governments involved in terrorist acts. but this is a matter of principle. it kills the totalitarian and fanatical people, it kills the perversion of the basic values of humanity. that is the origin of violence, and never the free exchange of democratic ideas. i dedicate this speech to all the victims of terrorism.
madam president, the stockholm programme contains the following reference, among others, in favour of the victims of terrorism: victims of terror also need special attention and support and social recognition. i believe that the union should provide that support and promote full recognition of society. those who have suffered the barbarity of terror must be an ethical reference for our societies. the defence of victims and their rights must therefore be a priority policy of the european union. the funds for victims of terrorism must be maintained and reinforced with adequate financial resources, as we have proposed in the amendments tabled by the european people's party to the draft budget for the union for the financial year 2010. this is why the aid has been increased by eur 1 million, which will be used to finance projects aimed at helping victims of terrorism and their families to recover, through the social or psychological support offered by the organisations and their networks, as well as the financing of projects aimed at mobilising public opinion against all forms of terrorism. part of the appropriation is intended in particular to improve legal assistance and advice to victims and their families. i'll give you a tangential and illustrative fact: terror equals victims. the total appropriations committed for the preparation and prevention of terrorist attacks will amount to eur 21 420 000 next year. the idea of teresa jiménez-becerril barrio to make the victims of the union more visible must have the unconditional support of this house. first, we must have the necessary legal instruments, starting with a written declaration, moving on to a resolution, and finally to a political declaration by the european institutions in support of the victims of terrorism, which also serves to make european citizens aware of the value of such support. victims bring us feelings of solidarity, compassion, recognition, dignity, sustainable aid, remembrance, and of contempt and justice for the terrorists who caused so much pain and so much death.
madam president, mr barrot, it is no coincidence that we have spoken to a whole series of meps who are spanish. in the basque country, in addition to terrorist attacks, the victims have often been ignored or silenced. and that's why there's been a victim-rights movement that requires, i think, a policy for victims of terrorism. i would like to take this opportunity to add to the speeches made by all my colleagues in favour of a letter or a common approach to this policy, by pointing out to you, almost by telegraph, ten points which i consider to be key. firstly, victim policy requires public accompaniment, recognition and social support for victims. secondly, prompt and effective compensation for damage. thirdly, equal treatment for all victims. fourthly, a political and social consensus on the measures to be taken for the victims of terrorism. fifthly, a policy of delegitimizing the social and political discourse of the violent. sixthly, exemplary punishment for the guilty, with access to justice, prompt and effective for the victims. seventhly, education and training against violence in the population. eighthly, a guarantee of non-repetition for the victims of the attacks suffered, which can also occur. ninthly, policies of remembrance to ensure that the victims are not forgotten. and finally, a policy of social reconciliation to heal the wounds caused by terrorism. that is the decalogue i propose for a common policy for the victims of terrorism.
i am sure that i share the feeling of many of the citizens who follow us, as a lawyer and as a member of the european parliament, that this is a debate without a clear focus. so let's try to clarify a few things. firstly, we are talking about a judgment of the european court of human rights, which is not an institution of the european union, but a judicial body 'in a circle concentric with the european union, but distinct' from commitment to the rule of law, representative democracy and human rights. secondly, we are talking about a judicial decision, and no decision of this parliament can revoke or amend any decision made by a court of law. thirdly, the judgment of the european court of human rights is profoundly respectful of religious freedom and its corollary of religious pluralism. freedom of religion is part of the common constitutional traditions, of the constitutional law of the member states, and it is also a fundamental right protected by the european convention for the protection of human rights. the judgment thus argues, with sound legal foundation, for the protection of religious freedom. he doesn't deny it at all. and it is unanimously done by a prestigious court which has shaped the culture of human rights for almost 60 years. but, lastly, and this is the important point, it must be remembered that no judgment of the european court of human rights has the consequence of changing the law of any member state which has signed the european convention for the protection of human rights, because the judgment recognises a right against a violation in a particular case. and only then will it be up to the member states to take the appropriate decisions on legislative changes or policies which may be inspired by the doctrine of the european court of human rights, but in no case are they bound or compelled by any judgment of the european court of human rights. there is therefore no reason for concern in any member state. no one is obliged to change either their legislation or their public policies as a result of a specific judgment of the european court of human rights. neither italy nor any other country is therefore required to adopt any general rule as a result of that judgment. but, finally, subsidiarity has been invoked. and we have to say that subsidiarity is a rule of european law which has no application in this case, because it is completely foreign in its conception and in its application to this case. i think that a rule of european law can even be invoked which allows a vote to be postponed in the event of doubt as to the relevance of a vote which does not concern matters which concern this european parliament, as i believe is the case. it seems to me, therefore, that this debate, although legitimate, is certainly a disoriented debate which needs no alarm or, much less, protest or reversal of the judgment handed down by a court of justice which is not an institution of the european union.
madam president, i'll start by borrowing some words that i make my own. the crucifix is not a sign of imposition: it is a symbol which conveys positive values, which are part of our history, our culture and a society which is more than 2000 years old. we cannot claim to protect fundamental rights by denying the values which created them. democracy works through freedom and respect, facilitating the exercise of rights and not through imposition or limitation. yes, yes, the principle of subsidiarity must be respected and recognised by all the european institutions, organisations and courts, in particular freedom of opinion and belief. the right of member states to display religious symbols in public places as symbols representing the traditions and identity of their peoples must not and cannot be restricted. freedom is the essential element of our society and the basic pillar on which the single area of freedom, security and justice is based. the limitation or censorship of such information would mean the breaking down of the very foundations of the european union.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the swedish presidency on the work it has done, particularly in the area of freedom, justice and security. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon marks a qualitative step forward and determines the subsequent presidencies, the spanish, belgian and hungarian, to continue this difference which the swedish presidency has made with the stockholm programme in drawing up the action plan. and i would like to draw attention, in the context of the cooperation required by the treaty of lisbon between the commission, the council and the european parliament, as well as the national parliaments of the member states (article 17 of the treaty on european union and article 295 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union), to the importance of three points which have been underlined by the swedish presidency. the first of these concerns the ambiguity surrounding the figure of the coordinator for combating terrorism and the illicit trafficking of persons, in his dependence on the commission and, on the contrary, in his being subject to the control of the european parliament. the second is the external dimension of fundamental rights, which will now be a cross-cutting dimension of european policy. there is a commissioner for fundamental rights and justice, but there is also an external action of the european union which must also be committed to human rights and strongly involved in the defence of fundamental rights. and the third concerns the schengen area of free movement of persons; precisely because importance has been given to the evaluation and monitoring of the asylum pact, to the policy of external border control (asylum, immigration and the prevention of organised crime), we believe that this will be a dimension that will make this area of free movement of persons and rights of persons, which will complete the internal market, a realization of the european project that we have before us.
mr president, i congratulate the swedish presidency on its good leadership during these six months. as regards the stockholm programme, i would like to stress the impetus it is intended to give to the desired common immigration policy. however, there are some essential issues that have been relegated to the background. i would remind you that in 2008 the european union recorded 515 terrorist attacks in 11 member states. the fight against terrorism and the protection of its victims must therefore be included among the priorities of our political agenda and must therefore form a separate and specific category of the stockholm programme. secondly, in the area of freedom, security and justice, there are eight million irregular immigrants. in this area we must strengthen development policies and cooperation with countries of origin and transit. the european union should promote the conclusion of repatriation and readmission agreements with countries such as morocco, algeria and libya. the future action plan for the stockholm programme, to be presented in mid-july next year, should take account of these aspects.
in writing. - after 30 years of free market fundamentalism, the global economy is facing the greatest crisis since the great depression of the 1930s. the neoliberal agenda of the wto, with deregulation, liberalization and privatization of services, has led the world to more poverty for the majority of the population, both in developing and industrialized countries. my group has always rejected trade liberalisation and its devastating effects which are contributing to the current financial, economic, climate and food crises. for these reasons, i voted against the parliament's resolution on the wto ministerial conference and, from my group, we proposed that a new mandate for negotiations in the wto, adapted to the current world situation, be insisted on with the aim of achieving a real reform of the international trading system aimed at adopting fair trade rules, respecting international agreements and national rules in the fields of social justice, the environment, food sovereignty and sustainable agriculture.
the european union is not a party to the conflict in afghanistan, but it is a party to the peace process. right now, we have a corrupt, illegitimate government in afghanistan, innocent victims, and the status of women has not changed at all. so the logical thing would have been to change strategy, and we regret that president obama is betting on a military solution by increasing the presence with 30,000 more troops. i think that the european union should not follow this line of action, because there is a certain risk of creating a new vietnam in the 21st century in afghanistan. in afghanistan, history has shown that there can be no military solution. we must increase cooperation, we must increase everything that is meant by a diplomatic and just solution to the conflict in the geostrategic zone, we must strive to respect international law from internal solutions in afghanistan.
madam president, the international community, and not just the united states, has a problem in afghanistan. president obama has taken three months, before establishing a comprehensive strategy, to respond to the troubling report by general mcchrystal. it is well known that this new strategy involves a short-term strengthening of the military presence, a redeployment by 2011, a gradual transfer of security aspects to the afghan forces, better coordination between the civilian and military aspects and a concentration in the large cities. the great challenge, mrs ashton, is to articulate and define a european response, primarily through the london conference. you referred to two key words in your speech: a response which must be coordinated with other international bodies - and we support your coordination with the united nations - and a coherent response. in this connection, mrs ashton, two comments: in 2005, i had the privilege of leading an election observation mission of this parliament and i had the opportunity to meet the chief of the isaf, general graciano, who has just left his duties in the unifil in lebanon. and the 44 countries that make up the international force today (including 28 nato members) form a heterogeneous force that is not currently providing an effective response to the fight against the insurgents. and the second aspect that is vital, mrs ashton, is that you cannot win a war - and there is a war in afghanistan right now - without having on our side, i mean on the side of the international coalition, the civilian population. and i understand, mrs ashton, that one of the main objectives of the european union would be precisely to concentrate those efforts we are making - a billion euros from the european union - on getting the civilian population on our side.
madam president, i welcome the fact that the swedish presidency has reinforced the union's commitment to stability and development in afghanistan through the action plan. i would like to know more about the financing of this plan in afghanistan. another very important moment for this country will be the next london conference in january. we shall then see the concrete commitments made by the european union and the member states and also by the new afghan government, which must be many, for example in the fight against corruption and against drug trafficking. i am a little concerned about the echoes in the press today of the conference that president karzai gave yesterday on the issue of corruption. on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, president obama's decision to increase his military contingent by 30,000 troops is very recent. in short, afghanistan is at a crucial juncture and the united states and europe need to work very closely together. in afghanistan, not only the prosperity and freedom of the afghan people are at stake, but also the stability of the region, including a country as important as pakistan. our security is also at stake, because of the continuing threat of al qaeda, as has already been said. the credibility of nato and of what we call the west also depends, to a large extent, on the results in afghanistan. we cannot fail. but for that, as has also been said, we need the support of our own citizens. this support requires transparency and clarity. we must explain the grave dangers facing our compatriots stationed in afghanistan, but we must also insist on the transcendence of the mission there and that failure cannot be an option. as i said, there are many very important things at stake.
in writing. it is necessary to ensure an international presence that helps to establish the basic conditions for peace and security to allow the improvement of the country's capacity for governance, the strengthening of the rule of law, the fight against corruption and respect for human rights. when i talk about government, i also mean the subnational level, the one closest to the citizens, and governance in the broad sense, including all the actors in afghanistan. the development of the country, the development of agriculture, infrastructure and the commercial fabric urgently need a climate of peace and stability and, above all, to protect citizens and to tackle impunity and legal uncertainty that directly affects them. all this without forgetting the daily and urgent problems of the citizens, which are not limited to security, but also concern food, health and education. afghanistan is going to get ahead, and it's going to get there because of the strength and work of the afghans themselves. but we must reach out to them and, above all, not neglect them prematurely, at the moment when they need it most.
mr president, other members have already spoken about the tragic situation in the democratic republic of congo. they have spoken of the millions of dead, rapes, abuses of the civilian population. they have spoken of the un mission, monuc, and the european commission's collaboration on the ground, but perhaps less has been said about the need to control the illegal flow of raw materials - diamonds, gold and other commodities - to the world, commodities that are laundered through accounts or companies, yes, legalized in our own countries or in the united states. that's an important job for mrs. ashton. now, with the authority conferred on him by the treaty of lisbon and the support of the twenty-seven and this parliament, he could coordinate a whole programme, a whole action, to prevent that enrichment from going to the warlords, to those who cause the killings and the rapes.
mr president, i too wanted to speak in this debate because it deals with a subject which i have been following for a long time. unfortunately, in view of the continuing violence and human rights violations in the east of the drc, we must once again strongly deplore the massacres, crimes against humanity and sexual violence against women and girls that continue in the eastern province. that is why i join my colleagues in calling on all the competent authorities to intervene without delay to bring to justice those responsible for these crimes and to call again on the un security council to take urgent action to prevent anyone from attacking civilians in the eastern province of the drc again. i also call on all actors to step up the fight against impunity and uphold the rule of law, in particular by tackling the rape of women and girls and the recruitment of child soldiers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to greet all the social organizations in copenhagen, who are waiting for positive results for the future of the planet and for the future of world cohesion. we must defend cohesion policy as a strong community policy against attempts at renationalisation. not only because of its direct impact on the development of cohesion in our regions and member states, but also because of its added value in terms of strategic planning, financial stability and visibility of the european project. at the same time, we must remember the essential role that the regions play and must play in cohesion policy. decentralised management and good governance at various levels are key to ensuring the success of regional development policy. i am also concerned about the establishment of transitional mechanisms to allow for a proper transition in regions and countries where assistance under the 'convergence' objective and the cohesion fund is being reduced, and about the development of european regions with natural difficulties, including the specific nature of border regions.
so, mr. gollnisch, you finally made it. we're gonna give you the floor, but you only have a minute.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all there is no doubt that the cohesion policy will be closely involved in the realisation of the eu 2020 strategy. the eu 2020 strategy will respond to numerous global challenges, and the cohesion policy will be among the key and fundamental instruments at the disposal of the european union and member states to address these challenges. therefore, concerns that cohesion policy will be detached from the implementation of eu overall strategy are unfounded. secondly, the commission does not have clear answers at this stage to many of the questions and issues raised by honourable members, such as on geographical coverage, the coverage or existence of objective 2 regions, the appropriate funding base, transitional arrangements, or the status of individual groups of regions. i admit this, but there is an ongoing vivid and deep debate among commission services, as well as between the governmental experts from the member states and the commission. these debates will lead to the preparation of a fully-fledged commission position in autumn 2010. in the course of the coming months, the questions and problems raised here should find proper responses from the commission. finally, i would like to thank all honourable members for their questions and suggestions. they confirm the importance of the cohesion policy as an instrument of long-term investment in areas which are necessary for building the growth potential of european regions and member states. i will take your interesting and valuable comments back with me to brussels, and i will report about them to my colleagues in the commission services and to my successor. the commission will be ready to continue discussions with parliament related to the shape of future cohesion policy in the forthcoming months.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
mr president, as head of the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament, i should like to thank the president of the group of the alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament for his speech, which was supported by the president of the group of the european people's party. because, first of all, this parliament is certainly expressing its solidarity with the cause of aminatu haidar and with his person, who is at present in grave danger from a prolonged hunger strike. but secondly, it also expresses a good gesture in supporting the intensity of the diplomatic work that has been carried out multilaterally and that has been conducted by the government of spain, which is the government of the country on whose territory aminatu haidar is and is the government of the country on whose territory a hunger strike is taking place that aminatu haidar herself has said will not end until she returns to a territory that is not under spanish jurisdiction. i therefore believe that the best thing we can do in support of the diplomatic effort that is taking place at the moment is to avoid a resolution that could impede the success of the negotiations that may take place in the next few hours.
mr president, i am speaking to express the position of my group against this, and i will say why: because it seems to me inappropriate to put this proposal before you this morning, but also because it would be disrespectful to all the groups in this house who have tabled a resolution. we spent three hours yesterday trying to find a way of taking this out of the political debate and not focusing on what might be happening in spain, and we were able, with the efforts of all the groups, from some positions and from others, to reach a common text. we were able to reach a joint text of a resolution and we were able, in the same meeting, to negotiate the differences. i therefore think that if it is inappropriate for this parliament to speak in such a situation, when will it speak? when? (loud applause) and i would also ask for the last... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, it is not true that this parliament has taken a decision on mrs haidar. it's not true! he was supposed to make his ruling today. today, after 33 days of hunger strike and it is intended that we do not debate this issue today. it seems to me immoral. it is a real immorality!
mr president, i have asked to speak on a point of order. this parliament has an unwavering and unwavering commitment to the cause of human rights. mr schulz made us an offer this morning. if you have data, if you have information that is important for the haidar case, mr president, please give it to us and let the house take a decision this afternoon at the beginning of the debate. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, first of all i would like to express my surprise because, as mrs bilbao said, we had a debate on this subject yesterday which lasted almost three hours. if mr schulz had information on the situation on this matter since sunday, we should have known about it yesterday, before we debated the joint resolution, yesterday, in the talks between the various groups, where we reached agreement, a compromise. no, it's not true. we have the responsibility to adopt a resolution, at least to know the position of this parliament on the case of aminatou haidar. so i don't ask that we vote and not discuss, as usual. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - this budget does not help to solve the economic, social and environmental problems facing the eu, which have been aggravated by the crisis. the increase in social and regional inequalities, unemployment and poverty are also not taken into account. the eu budget should be used to give effective priority to convergence policies based on social progress, preserving and promoting the potential of each member state, sustainability in the use of natural resources and environmental protection, with a view to achieving genuine economic and social cohesion. my whole group rejects the idea of using the community budget for a more militaristic and neoliberal eu. that is why we denounce the increase in military expenditure included in this budget. we point out, in this connection, the need for democratic control of expenditure on the common foreign and security policy, which is a grey area outside the control of budgetary expenditure.
in writing. - there can only be a political solution to the armed conflict in the area. for this reason, the interventions of both neighbouring and other countries must cease. the conflict in the democratic republic of congo (drc) requires a diplomatic solution negotiated between the parties, in full respect of the charter of the united nations and the universal declaration of human rights. the un security council should review monuc's mandate, removing its mandate under chapter viii to avoid strengthening the congolese armed forces, which endangers the un peacekeeping mission. we call for the closure of eupol and eusec missions in the drc, which have contributed negatively to the escalation of violence and the situation in the country by training security forces which have perpetrated crimes against their own civilian population. the un resolutions on the arms embargo against the drc must be implemented, because we denounce the violation of this embargo by several eu member states. since the joint resolution tabled by the other political groups does not include these fundamental points, i have voted against it.
mr president, two items were removed from the agenda this morning. but i ask you, in connection with the resolution which we agreed in the groups, can you please clarify on the basis of which rule of the rules of procedure the question was raised and the vote was taken immediately to withdraw an item from the agenda which we were to discuss this afternoon? i think it is an important question and one which the members of parliament who are here today urgently need to know.
mr president, under rule 177 of the rules of procedure, a group or at least 40 members may request the adjournment of a debate, which is what has happened this morning in an unusual way. the rules of procedure state that if the president of the chamber intends to request an adjournment, he must be informed 24 hours in advance and the president must inform parliament immediately. i would like to ask whether this procedure has been carried out, because we are faced with an extraordinary fact: for the first time the european parliament is prevented from debating a resolution agreed by all the parliamentary groups in the face of a situation of extreme gravity such as that of mrs haidar. i therefore want to know whether this procedure was carried out and, if not, whether the resolution will be discussed next, whether the resolution we agreed on between all the groups in this parliament will be taken up and put to the vote.
mr president, i also appeal to the rules of procedure and rule 177, but we do not understand how an item can be withdrawn from the agenda if it has not been tabled before the time of debate or vote. we therefore also believe that the rules of procedure have been misapplied and we therefore call on the presidency to resolve the matter.
mr president, i want to emphasize very briefly what my colleague, willy meyer, has said about the surprise that has been caused to all of us, or to a large part of this house, by the proposal this morning, which has been voted on in a surprising way and in a way that seems to indicate that it is not in accordance with and does not respect the rules of procedure.
mr president, it is indeed a matter of order. this morning the president of the socialist group asked for a joint motion for a resolution to be withdrawn from the agenda. it is an unprecedented decision, invoking a serious reason, which is that mrs haidar's life was in danger. in view of this, my group did not want to compromise this situation, taking account of what mr schulz said. but i understand that a statement by this parliament should not endanger mrs haidar and, above all, i do not understand why it has to be made against the rules of procedure. article 177 clearly states, mr president, that it must be tabled 24 hours in advance and before the debate. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would have liked to start this debate by talking about the case of aminatou haidar. however, due to the reasons we already know, i cannot. in any case, the question of the eligibility rights in uganda also deserves our attention, and this reminds us that once again we are forced to adopt a new text condemning homophobia. in the past, we have adopted several resolutions on that problem, including protection of minorities and anti-discrimination policies. today, we need to add the new text to those already adopted. the only attempt by a ugandan mp to table the anti-homosexuality bill deserves a political response. this proposed law includes provisions to punish those alleged to be lesbian, gay or bisexual with life imprisonment and even the death penalty. the draft also includes a provision that could lead to the imprisonment for up to three years of anyone, including heterosexual people, who fail to report within 24 hours the identities of everyone they know who is lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender, or who supports human rights for people who are. that means that any of us would also be susceptible to be taken to court for these reasons as well. we have to remind the european union and the international organisation that sexual orientation is a matter falling within the remit of the individual right to privacy guaranteed by international human rights law, according to which equality and non-discrimination should be promoted, whilst freedom of expression should be guaranteed. we ask international donors, both governmental and non-governmental, to cease their activities in certain fields should the bill pass. i strongly reject any move to introduce the use of the death penalty. if those requests are not met by the ugandan authorities, then we should call on the council and commission to reconsider their engagement with uganda, should the bill pass into law and breaches of international human rights law take place. for that reason, i wish to remind the ugandan government of its obligations under international law and under the cotonou agreement, which call for universal rights to be respected.
mr president, i am pleased that the members of the various groups are unanimous on this ugandan law which arouses our indignation - and which i believe represents the unanimity of this parliament - and my only request when i ask for the floor is to express it with my voice, in addition to expressing it later with the vote. i agree with michael cashman and the authors and spokesmen of the groups, because the fight against intolerance, against discrimination - in this case against homophobia and, moreover, against the death penalty - means that we must be very firm and ask the commission and the council to be equally firm until we get this unjust law which is taking uganda back to the era of colonialism repealed.
