thank you mr president. i commend the efforts of the czech presidency to handle the present gas crisis but just mediating one crisis after another is not the solution. the eu cannot remain in a babysitter role; that of an enfant terrible. one conclusion is clear: counting on a mutually beneficial strategic alliance with russia as a reliable provider of energy is a strategic miscalculation. the root cause of the current crisis is not ukraine, but the crisis within gazprom itself, which has failed to live up to its own commitments. for eight consecutive years, gas production by gazprom has been stagnating at the same level. this is the typical result of political state control over production. not being able to deliver gas at the same time to russian customers and meet commitments abroad has probably brought mr putin to initiate the political crisis and point to ukraine as a scapegoat. this makes it all the more important for us to concentrate upon finding new energy sources.
in writing. mr president and colleagues. the adoption of this regulation is an important step towards making travel documents more secure for eu citizens. this should create a strong link between the passport and its holder in the eu by 29 june 2009 at the latest, which will make a significant contribution to protecting the passport against fraud. i particularly welcome the introduction of the principle of 'everyone has his or her own passport', which makes it possible to improve the safety of travel for children in particular and makes life more difficult for those involved in trafficking and abduction of children. it is commendable that this requirement can now be applied in all member states. in estonia, it has been in force since 2000. in addition to secure travel documents, the role of the member states' border guards is also important, as they must pay more attention to checking the crossing of the external border by unaccompanied minors, as they do for adults. the security of travel documents is certainly not limited to passports, nor is the whole sequence any less important. it is therefore pointless to increase the level of security of passports without paying attention to the rest of the links in the chain. i believe that in addition to making travel documents more secure, the european commission should consider adopting a common eu approach to replace the different rules of the 27 member states on the protection of children crossing external borders.
my dear colleagues. democracy is based on transparency and openness. this is particularly important now, before the european parliament elections in june. simplifying the online environment would help to increase the activity of the european parliament elections. if we could inform citizens about the activities of members of parliament and the european parliament in general in a language they understand, we would be able to interest young and old alike. the e-parliament is a welcome initiative. the search criteria should make all information on the work of the ambassador available to the citizen. i agree with the rapporteur that in addition to the plenary, people should have access to the work of committees and delegations. the citizen must have an unobstructed view of our activities. i also support the idea of creating a single interinstitutional register of information and documents. it is important that the citizen can follow the procedure of interest to him and access all documents in one place. it's going to take time to create a single portal, but let's move in that direction. this is our path now and forever. i support the cappato report.
madam president, i would like to extend the warmest estonian support for the czech presidency. truly increased competitiveness is the best remedy for the economic crisis, with the completion of four basic freedoms. president-in-office, i support your idea of developing to the full extent the eastern partnership. we understand now how important it is to engage countries like ukraine and georgia to the rule of law and democratic accountability. last september the european parliament suggested marking 23 august as a day of joint commemoration of the victims of communism and nazism. we trust that you will take the lead in convincing all the 27 governments to officially mark this day, beginning from next august. we also expect you to lead us to a european moral and political assessment of the crimes committed under totalitarian communism. (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. − i voted against amendment 103 in the catania report, which proposed that long-term non-citizens should participate in elections to the european parliament as well in local elections in order to promote social and political integration. in fact, elections to the european parliament are equivalent to elections to the national parliament. to participate in them is the right of citizens. otherwise, citizenship will lose its meaning, and also incentives would be lost for non-citizen residents to apply for citizenship. only in this way can we retain the vital balance between rights and responsibilities that only citizens can have.
in writing. − mr president, i voted in favour of the report and i welcome in particular the inclusion of paragraph 31 in the report according to which the european parliament deplores the non-implementation by the eu of the judgments of the court of first instance on 12 december 2006 and on 4 and 17 december 2008 and the uk court of appeal ruling in favour of the people's mojahedin organisation of iran on 7 may 2008. the european union stands for democracy and the rule of law. the more appalling is the idea of one of its institutions acting against the union's principles. i hope that the council takes the position of the parliament well into account when compiling the new eu 'blacklist'. accusations of terrorist activity should actually be founded as well as the decisions on the inclusion of some organisations in the 'blacklist' should be more transparent. such issues cannot be addressed in an arbitrary manner, but in accordance with the principles of democracy and the rule of law. the eu cannot allow the global fight against terrorism be turned into a ground of political horse-trading and therefore must respect the aforementioned judgements of courts.
in writing. – the reaction to the conflict in gaza has to be more balanced than it currently is. no excessive violence can be excused, yet we have to look deeper into the origins of the conflict. negotiations with hamas as it is are not possible. a terrorist grouping which is cynically using its own people as a shield against attacks is not interested in negotiating a true peace. furthermore, we need to take into account that hamas has assumed an important role in the chain of terrorist movements which lead to hezbollah and the tehran terrorist regime. so hamas has to be seen as part of wider efforts to destroy the fragile stability in the middle east and substitute this with fundamentalist extremist regimes that allow in principle no right of existence for israel. indeed, we need to understand that the question of israel’s security is also linked to the eu’s security. the eu must exercise its authority to address first and foremost the roots of the conflict. to avoid further killing of arabs and israelis, the arab partners have to recognise unconditionally israel’s right to existence and contribute to stopping the infiltration of extremist movements and even more deadly weapons to this region.
in writing. mr president, mr president of the commission. it is regrettable, of course, that the czech presidency started with a solution to the russian-ukrainian gas conflict, which was rushed through instead of the one previously planned, just as the previous presidency had to start with the end of the russian-georgian war. but there is a bright side to all of this. the war on gas has brought energy issues to the fore, in particular the need for a common energy policy. but this common energy policy cannot be shaped in brussels if the member states do not act in the common interest and conclude bilateral agreements on terms which are only to their advantage. in this sense, this common policy must start in the capitals of the member states, not, as is to be expected, in the corridors of brussels. i hope that the speaker will succeed in furthering this understanding.
in writing. – russia blocked gas supplies at an extremely inopportune time for european consumers and it is essential that the gas deliveries are restored without further ado. but, after having resolved the crisis, we must take a long look at our dependency on gas from russia, and there are two aspects that ought to be considered. first, russia must assure its capability of fulfilling its commitments to the eu. the failure of outdated technology and infrastructure may jeopardise the stable flow of gas to the eu. it should also be noted that despite ambitious plans on the nord stream gas pipeline there is no certainty that the output of russia’s natural gas fields is sufficient for meeting their commitments. second, the kremlin has a history of using economic instruments as political tools. the european union should never become a victim of such political behaviour. i encourage the eu to diversify its energy package to avoid its dependence on one single natural gas provider.
minister, thank you for your answers. would you agree that, if the council had strongly and convincingly presented this problem to the russian side, demonstrating that the eu is serious about such a scandalous violation of justice, economic relations would also have been on a better footing today? would you agree that unless the khodorkovsky and lebedev case finds a just and transparent solution, the eu cannot expect russia to meet its economic commitments either?
ladies and gentlemen, the belarusian path to europe is a path of dialogue and compromise. the resolution on belarus adopted last year stressed the need for a strict and conditional but positive policy. progress in the fields of energy, environment and transport is the fruit of this work. still, there are problems that we cannot ignore. democracy is irreplaceable. the persecution of opposition leaders in belarus, the restriction of media and freedom of expression, and the violation of citizens' fundamental rights must be unacceptable to us as members of the european parliament. without a strong civil society, no democratic state can function. this is why organisations that aim to protect human rights, promote democracy and activate citizens must be fully supported. i commend the decision of the belarusian authorities to register mr milinkevich's civil society organisation for freedom. but this is just the beginning, with human rights organization naša vjasna and many other organizations committed to the development of democracy also waiting to register. finally, i would like to talk about the visa regime. a visa facilitation agreement should be concluded between the european union and belarus. the road to europe must be open. high visa fees and strict procedures punish not the state, but the people. i've said it many times and i'll say it again today. so let's give a hand, a european hand, to the people of belarus.
author. − mr president, the situation of iranian citizens who live under the oppressive dictatorship of tehran’s mullahs is alarming and has been deteriorating in all areas since 2005. therefore, i urge the commission to continue to monitor the human rights situation there and to present a comprehensive report on the situation during the first half of this year. today, we protest against the harassment of a nobel peace prize winner, ms shirin ebadi, and her centre for the defence of human rights. it has often been asked what is the result of these protests. this question should also be addressed to the council and the commission. the iranian regime is potentially the biggest threat to world peace and the rule of law. in all likelihood, in the nearest future tehran will have nuclear warheads – it already has the missiles to deliver them. iran too is a big exporter of terrorism – to iraq for example, it is a supporter of hezbollah and hamas. at the same time, the eu is still hoping to convince this dictatorship through compromises and has until recently been helping the terrorist regime in tehran to tie the hands of the main democratic opposition, ironically labelling it as a terrorist organisation. so we need a clear and forceful stand on human rights and also to have the human rights situation in iran as a priority in dealing with tehran.
in writing. dear colleagues, kenya is acting in violation of the universal declaration of human rights and the african charter on human and peoples' rights. such important foundations of democracy as freedom of speech and of the press are not respected. the free press is in serious danger. state control and censorship were part of the communications amendment bill. they have become law through the reckless act of president kibaki. it is unprecedented that the government has been given the power to seize the editorial boards of newspapers and broadcasters and control what is broadcast and in what form. it's far from a democratic society. it is essential to amend the legislation currently in force. it is possible to regulate the press without endangering freedom of speech and the press. we need to do this as quickly as possible.
mr president, my colleagues. the czech presidency has been in office for a month, but it has already spat in our faces and breaths with its gift: estonia is covered with a hammer and chisel, a drunk man on the floor of a finnish sauna, germany is overtaken by a hook, in italy footballers are kicking a ball at the dome, the toilet covers bulgaria and so on and so on. this is how the czech state's gift to the european union of a thai artist depicted the peoples and countries of the european union. art can and sometimes must be shaken, but is mocking another country and people the most decent way to do it? the czech government is right about the freedom of expression of artists, but here this freedom is being used in the wrong context. the state does not intend to interfere with the artist's creative freedom and this is also true, but by making a gift, the czech government has accepted the message that this gift carries and is now responsible for the consequences as the giver, not the artist. is it any wonder that the czech leadership has taken the right to insult other member states? as the elected representative of estonia, i await the chairman's response and apology so that i can then inform the people of estonia. unfortunately, the president's representatives are not here, but i think my prayer will reach him.
in writing. europe today is facing demographic changes unprecedented. if europe is to reverse the declining population trend, it is through eu and national policies that we must give full support to families and enable women and men to reconcile family and work life, but in such a way that the responsibilities of home and family are shared equally between men and women. i fully support the ep's alternative resolution on gender equality and solidarity between generations, which is more realistic than the previous report. the objective of gender balance in care policy is particularly worthy of emphasis. inequality in care work is often due to the lack of affordable, accessible and high-quality services in member states, and women are forced to sacrifice their opportunities to participate in social, economic and political life. all this maintains inequalities in the distribution of home and family responsibilities between men and women, and in general forces women to opt for more flexible work arrangements or to give up work, which in turn affects their careers, the persistent gender pay gap and pension rights. i am cautious about the czech presidency's proposal to make childcare a 'full-fledged alternative to a professional career'. i am convinced that its implementation would strengthen the traditional division of labour between men and women. the measures planned under the lisbon strategy, which aim to increase employment, promote innovation and increase productivity, must also aim to eliminate entrenched gender discrimination in the eu, play an important role in equalising the division of labour between men and women.
mr president, commissioner, distinguished rapporteur, distinguished colleagues. the rapid development of information and communication technologies has created a new channel for criminals to commit or present their crimes. the crimes covered by the report have been discussed in various international and european fora. in 2003, the council of the european union adopted a framework decision binding on the member states on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, which is now integrated into many member states' legal systems, but which, in the light of the rapid development of the information technology sector, is already in need of updating and we cannot afford to delay. i am pleased that the commission will shortly be preparing a new updated framework decision. all member states must define the concept of 'child pornography' and criminalise the sexual exploitation of children via the internet. while it is difficult to catch cyberbullies, it is not impossible. however, there are a number of national laws that prevent surveillance. the use of surveillance is thus not allowed for second-degree crimes, and data protection is often an obstacle. there have been cases in my home country, and recently in my own country, where the actions of an online attacker have led to a minor committing suicide. this has also happened in other member states. we need to be able to protect our children before they become victims. the european union must have zero tolerance for paedophilia and child pornography and we must achieve this.
in writing. – exploiting children in any way is inacceptable. being the future of any society children are at the same time the most vulnerable group of it. therefore it is the priority duty of politicians to protect children from any abuse, in particular to free them of the risks of sexual abuse. i warmly welcome the comprehensive report which calls upon all member states to address the problem in question with utmost seriousness. i support the call to the seven member states which have not yet signed the council of europe convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. furthermore i join the call upon all member states to sign, ratify and implement all relevant international conventions to protect our children. nevertheless, signing and ratifying conventions is merely providing a framework for improvement. practical actions are needed because of the increasing evidence of sexual exploitation of children. children need to grow up in a safe environment for which parents have the primary responsibility. urging the member states to coordinate their actions, i also support the idea to set up the missing child alert system which would improve the cooperation on this issue on the european level.
in writing. children need our care and protection as legislators. it is very important that seven member states and neighbouring countries sign the council of europe convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. the implementation of the council framework decision is equally important. victims of early exploitation must be fully protected during the investigation, before and after the trial. victim protection mechanisms such as appropriate assistance to the victim's family and the treatment of victims as particularly vulnerable victims must be implemented immediately. we need to increase security. the internet has crossed all boundaries. children are often not able to grasp the seriousness and consequences of a situation. what often seems like a game can lead to lifelong psychological damage. so we need to criminalize the use of chat rooms and online forums for pedophiles and their solicitation. we really do. it is our duty to protect children from a world that can destroy them. let's keep sex offenders away from children and take the necessary steps to do so!
in writing. estonia is one of the countries where the process of tightening the penalties for those who have committed crimes against children is underway. but it's a fight with consequences. to prevent crime, 'internet literacy' should be promoted, including risk education. unfortunately, the computer world is the one place where parents have failed to lead the way. to prevent crime, we need to raise awareness. a 2008 eurobarometer survey shows that a large proportion of parents do not pay attention to what their children are doing online. for example, i represent a country with one of the highest rates of internet use, but also one of the highest rates of parental neglect in the eu. in particular, 60% are not concerned that children could be victims of bullying; 47% are not concerned that children see pornography or violent material; 62% are not concerned that children might give out personal information. parental information and information programmes for children on the internet are very important, as only 10% of (estonian) children say they have turned to their parents for help in the event of an unpleasant experience on the internet.
ladies and gentlemen, linguistic and cultural diversity, which we value as a wealth of the european union, often becomes a problem at the level of the member states. especially in regions where, due to the twists and turns of history, borders have shifted or, on the contrary, minorities have become the majority and the majority the minority, as in my home country of estonia. and that's an extremely big challenge for a country. however, at the level of the european union, it is very important not to use double standards. the copenhagen criteria, which the previous speakers had already mentioned in several speeches and which the new members had to fulfil, were already discussed, but we knew very well that the same criteria, the same requirements - be it educational requirements - were not fulfilled in several of the old member states. it is of the utmost importance that all countries are treated equally, that the minimum standards apply to all.
in writing. – according to article 20 of the treaty establishing the european community ‘every citizen of the union shall, in the territory of a third country in which the member state of which he is a national is not represented, be entitled to protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any member state, on the same conditions as the nationals of that state’. at the end of november last year, our colleague, ignasi guardans cambó was in mumbai during the terrorist attacks and he witnessed several violations of the treaty by diplomats of some member states, as citizens of the european union were differentiated and discriminated against on the basis of their nationalities. the conduct of the diplomats of some member states in mumbai did not only violate the rights of the eu citizens, but also pointed out deficiencies in the eu integration process. therefore, it is crucially important for the eu to investigate this particular case and take action to ensure that such a situation does not occur again. i would appreciate it, if the council and the commission could assure that the implementation of article 20 of the treaty is closely monitored and that every deviation is investigated thoroughly.
mr president, i supported mrs wortmann-kool’s amendment to consider taiwan as an economic and commercial entity, because taiwan has been a democracy for a long time and is a viable free market economy. we must make at least political and moral efforts to support the status of taiwan, and also to provide it with international access to organisations which are not connected with statehood.
madam president, today this house adopted a report on minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers. this must also be relevant to countries like burma or thailand. it is to the credit of representatives of the european parliament that we are standing up today in defence of the rights of a muslim minority in burma. the situation has become shocking and alarming, with thai soldiers forcing these burmese refugees out into the ocean in boats without engines; at least 500 are believed to have died. for thailand, the survivors’ accounts are damning, to say the least. sending refugees back to danger is bad enough, but casting them adrift to die is much worse. others have been left to work as slave labour in thailand. the prime minister, to his credit, has promised a full investigation, but we need to support him in acting independently of his army and following the international norms of human behaviour.
madam president, the message of our rapporteurs today could be that a vibrant euro-atlantic partnership is the best guarantee for european security and stability. indeed, i support adopting a new transatlantic agenda and bringing about a new set of euro-atlantic institutions, resulting finally in a comprehensive transatlantic common market. ari vatanen has urged the involvement of all eu and nato members in closer cooperation, regardless of which organisation they belong to. i think that is a very practical idea, as is his idea of a permanent eu operational headquarters complementing – and, of course, not competing with – nato’s command structures. another very important point is that we draw on the same pool of national resources. jacek saryusz-wolski has said that the cfsp is seriously underfinanced, so it is crucial to avoid duplication and to increase efficiency. the question for the member states is: what are they offering mr solana to carry out our common defence policies? thirdly, it is time to address new challenges to our security. in fact, future conflicts will be fought and perhaps decided in cyberspace, where every state has to react and defend itself, sometimes in a time-frame that does not exceed a second. the european parliament, too, needs to take the initiative to contribute to this dramatic challenge of the new century, a challenge that is based on the democratisation of modern technology.
in writing. mr president,i would like to thank my colleague mr vatanen for his excellent report on eu-nato synergy. the report contains all the points that we have always stressed in our positions in europe and in the european parliament. another important point in the report was the proposal that the eu candidate countries, which are also nato members, should be granted a kind of temporary status in the european defence agency (eda). this would certainly be a key solution to the turkish problem from the nato point of view. also by mr von wogau the report on the esdp and ess is generally oriented. the esc report, which was approved by the december council, answered most of the questions raised. the new aspects and the guiding positions on eu security policy presented in the report will help the european union to defend its security interests more effectively, as the von wogau report recommends. the report's focus on seeking cooperation with other partners is to be commended. thank you!
in writing. – i welcome the efforts made to further develop the eu’s relations in the euromed region. but i would like also to underline that the eu should not neglect its two other seas – the baltic sea and the black sea. the baltic sea strategy will be one of the priorities under the swedish presidency. also the black sea synergy carries strategic importance. the eu has to take care and find a common spirit in developing all these regions in balanced manner. the eu is an integrated community and the long-term strategic development of all its regions has equal importance. there is clearly a need to have a close partnership with non-eu countries in the mediterranean based on respect for human rights and the rule of law. regrettably there are still several countries that have serious problems in this domain. i urge the eu member states to address these issues with the utmost seriousness. involving the arab league is a significant opportunity to bring all states together to jointly find solutions for conflicts in the region. i call on the eu member states to take a balanced stand and play the role of negotiator rather than taking sides in different conflict situations. only by being balanced can we contribute to achieving long-term peace in middle-east.
mr president, last week’s elections in israel showed that the majority of citizens support the parties that see the reinforcement of the military as the best way to protect the country. even though the centrist party, kadima, received the largest number of votes, the fact that the right-wing parties now hold 65 seats in the knesset, compared to 50 in the previous elections, reflects the changing views of the israeli citizens about the israel-palestinian conflict. those parties are in favour of taking a hard line rather than relying on seemingly endless and ineffective peace talks. the middle east must be one of the top priorities in the european union’s common foreign and security policy and the stability of the whole region depends largely on israel-palestinian relations. it is absolutely crucial, therefore, for the european union to continue pursuing the peace talks and to restore hope to israelis and palestinians that a peaceful coexistence is possible.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. − mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr szymański on his very good report. on behalf of the committee on regional development, i welcome the inclusion of cross-border cooperation within the scope of the enpi regulation as an instrument to develop common projects and to strengthen relations between enp countries and the eu member states. at the same time, i would like to highlight the necessity of regularly monitoring the management and implementation of joint operational programmes on both sides of eu borders. cross-border cooperation should contribute to integrated sustainable development between neighbouring regions. we ask the commission to prepare a detailed overview of all joint operational programmes approved for the current financial period, with an assessment of how the principles of transparency, efficiency and partnership have been respected. such an assessment, together with an inventory of the most frequent problems faced by the managing authorities, should contribute to finding more appropriate solutions for the next programming period. i would also encourage the commission to facilitate the exchange of experiences and best practices in cross-border cooperation between enp programmes and projects, on the one hand, and actions taken under the european territorial cooperation objective and under the already completed interreg iiia community initiative, on the other. finally, the regional development committee considers that enpi should focus on a balanced strategy between the east and the south, with specific approaches for both areas.
in writing. as head of the european parliament delegation to moldova, i am naturally interested in the development of the eastern dimension of the enpi. i fully understand and support the interest of the southern member states of the european union in promoting the southern dimension of the enpi. but i am convinced that we cannot ignore our neighbours to the east. our eastern and southern neighbours are equally important to us in terms of the security and well-being of our society. under the current arrangements, which will apply until 2010, the enpi money is distributed unevenly 70% goes to the southern dimension and only 30% to the eastern dimension. new financial discussions will begin this year. i very much hope that these discussions will change the current system and that the money will be fairly and equally distributed in the future. in view of the events of the past summer - i am thinking here of the russian-georgian conflict - our eastern neighbours rightly expect the european union to make a greater contribution to stability than it has done so far. and the eu's involvement must not be limited to general political support, but must include very concrete cooperation and assistance in implementing reforms. i am extremely pleased that estonia is one of the 15 founding members of the recently established neighbourhood fund trust fund. in this economic downturn, a million euros is a pretty big deal. and a specific action.
in writing. – mr president, i welcome the notion that that "the eastern partnership should not hinder the european union membership for neighbouring countries wishing to apply", as it was stated in the report. the possible future membership incentive is an integral part of the eastern partnership as it forms the basis for a successful conditional approach. although the progress towards a completed democratic transition varies from country to country - in belarus there have been only minor advances, while in ukraine and georgia some significant steps have been taken - the european union should always sustain the possibility for the eastern neighbourhood countries to accede to the eu, since the efforts to establish functional democracy, rule of law and respect of human rights can sometimes be exhausting to the point of relapse. the primary objective of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument as well as the accession incentive vis-à-vis armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova, ukraine and belarus is to ensure continuous progress towards consolidated democracies in those countries.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank thijs berman for his report. it points out an important aspect in development aid that the commission should, in my opinion, seriously consider. activities such as cultural, scientific and economic exchange programmes, citizen-to-citizen contacts or political dialogue are regrettably not covered by existing european legislation, those being just a few examples. the european union has set up numerous programmes and financial instruments under the auspices of different agencies, each covering only certain limited aspects of the problems that the developing countries are currently facing. i find that, without a central european union agency and a comprehensive and coherent policy, the efforts that we are making to improve the situation in developing countries are not of notable extent. we all agree that the purpose of the european union development cooperation policy is to reach as many people in need as possible, but yet we have chosen a rather inconvenient path to that goal. at the moment the european union is both institutionally fragmented and legally hindered as far as development aid is concerned. this much appreciated report deals with the results of those deficiencies. the european union and its member states have contributed immensely to the official development assistance and it should never be underestimated, but much remains to be done to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the institutional framework as well as congruence of the legislation covering development aid.
in writing. mental health disorders are a public health problem in many countries, with significant implications for individuals, their families and society as a whole. mental health disorders are also often disabling and can thus impose a significant economic burden on society. according to the world bank's 1993 development report, four of the ten leading causes of disability were mental health and/or neurological disorders. if the same trends continue, depression could become the second most important cause of disability in the general population by 2020 and even the leading cause of disability in women. despite the scale and severity of the consequences of mental health disorders, there are still countries in the world and in europe today where the problem has not received adequate attention. this is often due to the partly negative public and political attitudes in society and the stigmatisation of psychiatric illnesses and diseases. this in turn leads to a lack of focus on mental health, poor access to services, a lack of alternative therapies and a lack of information about treatment options. while addressing mental health problems is a competence of the member states, it is important to increase the amount of additional financial and knowledge-based assistance provided by the eu to member states to help them develop and improve the necessary health, social, care and education services and preventive measures. i believe that in the european union, the promotion of people's mental health and well-being must become a priority in all member states, because people's mental health has the most direct impact on the economic productivity and employment of the member states.
madam president, i voted in favour of paragraph 43 of the vatanen report only because of our colleague mr landsbergis’s oral amendment to it that the house finally approved. i still prefer, and declare my support for, the original version of paragraph 43 that ends, ‘security proposals that the russian federation has recently advanced would seriously undermine the credibility of eu security structures and strike a wedge into the eu-us relationship’. having attended this week’s session of the eu-russia cooperation committee, i came to the conclusion that we cannot ignore what our colleague, mr vatanen, has called a ‘brutal reality’ – namely that the strategic goal of the russian federation is still, alas, to split the eu partners into good and bad ones and to emasculate nato.
in writing. − i voted in favour of ari vatanen’s report on the role of nato in the security architecture of the eu. the rapporteur has pointed out the most important deficiencies of the current eu “security architecture” and offers clear and effective solutions for improving the security of the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that it is crucial for europe’s security as well as for the world in general, to maintain and to deepen the co-operation between nato and the eu. even though there have been several improvements that have made the nato-eu relations more effective, there is room for improvement in many aspects. in order to develop a more efficient co-operation, all eu member states should be present at the eu-nato joint meetings. the recent years, bearing in mind the unresolved issues between cyprus and turkey, have showed clearly that the current eu-nato meetings are not nearly as successful and productive as they could be. the usa and nato must be regarded as partners not as rivals. the eu and nato amend each other and together, our common goals can be attained the fastest and most effectively.
mr president, the international atomic energy agency’s latest report concludes that iran has produced enough low-enriched uranium to make an atomic bomb. most alarming is the speed of iran’s progress. according to the agency’s estimates, tehran has increased the number of uranium-enriching centrifuges by 34 times in less than three years. in the next five years, however, iran plans to add 45 000 centrifuges to the existing 5 600. that will mean an ability to manufacture nuclear weapons on an industrial scale. that also means deliverable atomic bombs, considering developing missile capacity and the launching of iran’s first satellite. that means that the policy of containing iran only by half-hearted sanctions and diplomacy has failed. it has only provided tehran with the necessary time to complete its nuclear programme. therefore it is high time to abandon the de facto policy of appeasement and concentrate on a joint eu response to possible nuclear blackmail or an ultimatum by iran. if then, too, negotiations ‘as usual’ are our only option, this will mean political surrender.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and stress the importance of this subject, even though i represent a member state, estonia, which stands out for the fact that we receive very few refugees. so far, only a few people a year have been granted refugee status, but we're also a small country and an attractive place for tourists, but a tough place to live. we understand the need for solidarity, but i don't think those who have already suffered in life can be punished with a harsh climate again, unless they choose to. so it makes sense to talk about sharing responsibilities, not people, to improve the situation in countries where large numbers of asylum seekers arrive. the harmonization of standards must certainly be encouraged. if we have one common border, it makes sense that an asylum seeker would find the same treatment everywhere in the european union.
in writing. − unfortunately i was unable to participate in the votes on christel schaldemose's report on the integrity of online gambling. however, i would like to use this opportunity to agree with the rapporteur, as the report points out several important and dangerous aspects concerning the online gambling. in 2004 the online gambling accounted for roughly 5% of the total gambling market in the eu and the numbers have been increasing rapidly over the past years. it is important to understand, that different illegal activities such as credit card frauds, minors accessing to gambling, match-fixing etc are currently inevitable parts of online gambling. also, the number of people addicted to gambling is likely to rise, as for many, the online gambling is very convenient. the impact of online gambling, as the rapporteur points out correctly, has not been examined in depth yet. therefore, for the protection of the citizens, it is crucially important, that all the member states do an intensive research on the effects of online gambling as well as improve the monitoring and regulating of the gambling markets.
it is the custom of my party to visit the kindergarten every year on women's day and to recognize the people who work there. i went to ten kindergartens this year, and i heard about the long lines everywhere. it is clear that estonia cannot meet the barcelona targets, at least not for children up to the age of three, but the commission's call is very welcome and will help to solve this problem. but i would like to emphasize one more thing: childcare is mostly talked about in the context of gender equality and women's employment, but i would like to emphasize that it is not only a care service, but also an educational service and with this basic education, the basis for success in school and in life is created. and in that context, we think it's extraordinarily important, and certainly not for the approach of the last century, as we just heard. it's the approach of the century.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a debate which i believe has been extremely important and profound. of course, it is clear that the family, and childhood, has gone through many changes in the course of history. for example, the middle ages did not recognize childhood as a phase at all, children were understood as small adults, and it can be said that, in essence, the concept of childhood develops in the age of enlightenment, in the time of jean-jacques rousseau and his novel emil. so in this respect, it's always necessary to take into account that the family was connected to society and society was of course connected to the family. the barcelona criteria are certainly not the policy of the last century, they are the policy that is being discussed and will certainly continue to be discussed. nevertheless, the current debate, including the informal meeting of the ministers of labour and social affairs, has shown that the barcelona criteria are relevant for the present and that it is right to continue to follow them. i would also like to stress that the content of the barcelona criteria is not to impose a single solution on anyone, but to provide a real choice, a real choice for parents. because, ladies and gentlemen, it also came out very strongly in the debate, and i think it was very clear in that last speech: that truly valued and loving parents have, of course, a great ability to recognize how to make decisions at a given moment, at a given family stage, in a given situation, in a way that is in the best interest of their child. and that's why i think it's a good idea to open up the choice through the barcelona criteria. as regards the way in which the commission supports the barcelona criteria, this is possible through the structural funds. in the new perspective, it's explicitly possible for the first time, it was technically possible before, but the path was a bit steep and complicated, so this possibility is open. the commission is also, of course, monitoring the development of the barcelona criteria, just as it can facilitate solutions for individual member states by passing on good practices and good approaches. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the barcelona criteria are in no way contrary to the best interests of the child and i would like to emphasize what has been said by many, namely that the criteria as such are certainly a qualitative approach to the matter, but that the qualitative aspect cannot be neglected. it is equally clear, of course, that the fundamental decision-making must always remain with the parents, and i must say that i personally, after all, and based on my own simple parenting experience, trust the parents.
the lisbon european union summit in march 2000 set the community's strategic objectives for the next decade to achieve sustainable economic development, create more and better jobs and increase social cohesion. based on the barcelona targets adopted by the member states in 2002 for childcare services, by 2010 member states should provide childcare for at least 90% of children between the age of 3 and the age of compulsory schooling and for at least 33% of children under the age of 3. the open method of coordination was used to achieve the barcelona objectives, but the measures to achieve the objective were left to the discretion of each member state. it is now clear that a number of member states are still a long way from meeting the targets set and that the targets adopted in 2002 now need to be reviewed. the current economic downturn demonstrates that financial market disturbances have significant negative spill-over effects on the real economy. the negative effects on growth and employment are sufficiently serious and are affecting the achievement of the lisbon objectives in the member states today. since most eu countries have focused their attention and financial resources on tackling the economic crisis, it is important that the barcelona objectives, which also contribute to the achievement of the lisbon objectives, are not forgotten in this context. the present situation also shows that by setting new deadlines for the barcelona objectives alone we will not achieve this objective in the member states. the eu-supported assistance measures also have an important place for member states in this context, in order to contribute better to the achievement of the childcare objectives in all member states.
in writing. – solidarity is one of the most precious values for europe today. yet in the current economic crisis there are signs that european solidarity is being undermined. more than ever we have to avoid divisions between member states – to avoid categorisation of old and new, big and small. the division which exists between euro and non euro zone member states must not give the euro zone states a privileged position from which to dictate the common future. all member states need to be involved equally in decision-making. all member states have to be guaranteed the right to communicate their problems and concerns in order to find possible european solutions. europe needs a driving force to overcome the economic crisis with the least amount of damage. protectionism cannot be the answer to the economic crisis. on the contrary, openness and the spirit of competition need to remain the basis of our activities. therefore, to take advantage of the current depression, more money should be invested in innovation, research and development. in other words, the crisis should be seen as an incentive to implement the lisbon strategy. only by using fully this strategy based on solidarity can we ensure jobs and the sustainability of the european economy.
in writing. i thank the rapporteur, mr ferreirat, for his factual and up-to-date report. in the current crisis, it is vital to make the most of the resources available. it is regrettable that the majority of member states eligible for support from the structural and cohesion funds under the new financial perspective have not been able to mobilise this money. so is my home country of estonia. this is for several reasons: the first key problem is the administrative capacity of the member states themselves, where member states can do a lot themselves and improve the way the administration works. on the other hand, the question is one of the european union. it is important that the eu makes the conditions more flexible. the problem is, for example, with programmes where expenditure has to be made in advance, which are financed afterwards. it's hard to get a loan these days to pay for these expenses. what the european commission intends to do with regard to advance payments is very important. the next important point is the rate of self-financing under current conditions, and here too greater flexibility should be considered. the third important point concerns the monitoring mechanism, but the current bureaucracy is clearly unreasonable. thanks for the report.
in writing. – during the past five years, the new member states have witnessed numerous positive effects of the membership of the european union. that experience is not to be monopolized, and i therefore support fiercely the eu’s continued enlargement. however, as much as i would like to see turkey joining the eu in the near future, the progress report unfortunately indicates something quite the opposite. i have addressed this issue several times in this chamber, pointing to the armenian genocide, concerns over the kurds and the occupation of cyprus. in addition to that, when examining the progress that turkey has made towards the completion of negotiations on 35 acquis communautaire chapters since october 2005, one can see that only twelve chapters have been opened and until now just one – the chapter on science and research – has been closed. i would like to ask the council and the commission how they propose to accelerate the course of the negotiations and solve the dispute on cyprus.
mr president, i would like to welcome the eastern partnership project that will hopefully strengthen democracy and reforms in our eastern neighbourhood. this is not just a regional initiative, however: it should be seen as an all-european project. therefore, it is crucial that all member states commit themselves to making their full contribution. with commitment of that kind the traumatic conflict in georgia last august could probably have been prevented. it is high time, therefore, that all states in the region understand that such projects cannot be seen as an old-style fight over spheres of influence, and i share the view of the commissioner that the goal is to achieve more stability and security in our neighbourhood. the eastern partnership will mean upgrading the eu’s relations with six of its neighbours. it could be compared to establishing four common spaces between the eu and russia, but the main element of this relationship will be reciprocity and conditionality. the partnership will mean bilateral commitments to advance both free market economic relations and the rule of law, and the scope of the relationship will depend on the progress of each partner in these areas. i would like to stress one more principle. the eastern partnership should not be limited to cooperation between governments. it has also to involve civil society and especially stimulate grass-root exchanges between citizens, ngos and local authorities. belarus opposition leaders who were here this week were, by the way, worried by the eu opening up to belarus because it did not include the civil society, and in the case of an authoritarian country like belarus i think partnership must be clearly based on concrete steps of progress in the field of human rights.
madam president, the chinese government has termed the anniversary of the occupation of tibet the ‘liberation of serfs’. sadly, this is orwellian newspeak still being practised: slavery is freedom; lies are truth. but it shows that the chinese communist leaders have become long-term prisoners of their own bad conscience. achieving genuine autonomy for tibet is closely related to realising the message of another date: soon, 20 years of tiananmen student democracy. achieving real democracy in china is key to a solution in tibet, but time is running short, and much will depend on our own moral determination. i also call on the council presidency to make a similar statement to our resolution on this occasion and also in june on the occasion of the tiananmen square massacre.
mr president, estonians, latvians and lithuanians would extend their warm gratitude to you for your expression of solidarity on the occasion of 60 years since the 1949 deportations from the baltic states, which have been universally assessed as crimes against humanity, committed in peace time four years after the end of the war. two thirds of the deportees were women and children who were sent to siberia for approximately 10 years. proportionally, the number of deported persons would amount to half a million had these deportations taken place in three scandinavian states – sweden, denmark and norway. however, today it is clear that economic and political enlargement of europe is not enough to have europe truly integrated as a ‘community of values’. we need a new wave of enlargement: that of europe’s conscience. we acutely need an all-european awareness and will to recognise these crimes and prejudice as an integral part of our common history.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the year 2007 was unfortunately the second year in a row when contributions to official development assistance decreased in the developed world. i am therefore glad that the rapporteur has reiterated the need to urge the european union member states to uphold their commitments. i find that the member states ought to revise their current assistance to target countries, as the 2008 millennium development goals progress chart indicates that sub-saharan africa is the only region lagging seriously behind the progress expected. i would like to use this opportunity to encourage member states to increase their contribution to sub-saharan africa, which is the least developed region in the world. also, target countries are not always too receptive towards the conditional nature of eu assistance. we should continue with the efforts to involve those countries more intimately. the global economic crisis burdens us all, yet we must not forget or ignore the fact that the least developed countries are also the most vulnerable now. furthermore, with the stagnant situation in africa, europe is more and more intimidated by flows of immigration that might become strenuous to the welfare state. it is much wiser to deal with the problems of the people of the developing countries before those problems spill over to concerns that we need to address here in europe.
in writing. – the mdg contracts promise to constitute a significant shift towards a clearer road map for achieving the millennium development goals. it is of course important that the potential of those contracts will not be diminished by excessive administrative procedures of the commission, as the rapporteur has pointed out. the conditional nature of the eu development assistance could only prevail if the eu operated in a monopoly, being the sole provider of development assistance. at the moment our efforts in africa for example are to quite some extent in vain as the people's republic of china is exercising 'political dumping', when providing aid with no requirements for transition to democracy, rule of law and respect of human rights. some governments in africa might cut the commission red tape by disregarding our offer of development aid, which is extremely dangerous, since by that we lose our opportunity to guide those countries in the right direction. i would like to ask the commission to address this concern by simplifying procedures while retaining sufficient control over the disbursement of the resources that are provided.
in writing. territorial cohesion strengthens economic and social cohesion and is one of the cornerstones of achieving the eu's cohesion policy objectives, as it helps to effectively offset development disparities both between and within member states and regions. territorial cohesion also has an important role to play in the future development of eu regional policy, as demonstrated by the inclusion of the principle of territorial cohesion alongside economic and social cohesion in the lisbon treaty. in the context of the current economic crisis, the issue of reviving the eu economy has become a major one, and this is through smart investment, which is crucial for economic growth, scientific discovery, technological innovation and jobs. i fully support the rapporteur's view that the eu should, under territorial cohesion, stimulate more interaction and knowledge transfer between research and innovation centres and the regions surrounding them, which will help to maximise the impact of investments made on european citizens. to better cope with the problems and difficulties faced by member states in times of crisis, we need a single eu cohesion strategy that emphasises the territorial dimension of cohesion policy and adapts policy measures to the specific needs of each member state. today we must also start a broader discussion on the possible future of regional and cohesion policy in the eu after 2013 and on the possible shape of the structural funds in the next programming period, in order to contribute consciously to enhancing the eu's economic competitive edge in the world.
in writing. − i voted in favour on alexander graf lambsdorff's report with a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the eu priorities for the 64th session of the un general assembly. european union must act in unison in order to affect the decisions and commitments that will be taken in september 2009 during the un general assembly. as a member of the committee on development, i would like to highlight the importance of progressing towards the millennium development goals. european union must take a leading role in the un to ensure that our promises to the developing countries, which actually suffer the most by the current economic crisis, are kept, as unfortunately at the moment our actions have run short of our promises. undoubtedly, the crisis has affected almost all the countries, however, especially on the difficult times as now; all the developed countries must act together and look further from narrow national interests, as the lives of millions of people are literally depending on our actions and our future behaviour. the consequences of ignoring the problems now could be catastrophic; furthermore, we might not be able to solve them anymore in the future.
mr president, i think the encouraging result achieved by the council is that 27 member states can now go to the g20 with a common position. this is a major achievement, and it is only fair to congratulate prime minister topolánek on his constructive role as a council. i can share his view that the success of the council was the eu’s refusal to go down the easier route of massive bailouts and nationalisation. the unfortunate czech government crisis now leaves the commission and president barroso with enhanced responsibility to steer the community out of crisis, providing for coherence and stability. at the same time, the commission has to offer more flexible mechanisms for the timely use of additional money decided by the council. implementation procedures can be too clumsy and time-consuming. it is especially important to accommodate framework conditions for small businesses and for innovation. now it is really time to invest more in research, education and training. however, economic depression is not a time for moral depression. as usual a crisis provides opportunities for reform. the financial crisis in fact originates in the crisis of values, so the recovery must start with strengthening our common values, starting with an enhanced commitment to solidarity. and, most importantly, the crisis is no excuse for protectionism. on the contrary, we are bound to act together with the understanding that, by supporting each other and committing ourselves to reforms in the spirit of the lisbon strategy, the crisis will make europe stronger.
the general assembly agreed on several important issues. energy and broadband projects and the decision to increase the support fund for the eastern european countries are a good sign. but for me, one sign of what the european council has achieved or not achieved is what our prime minister said when he returned to estonia. europe is returning to its core values. he suggested that europe was losing its enthusiasm for future stimulus packages and was turning back to a conservative fiscal stance. representing ultra-liberal parties, his position is not surprising, but it reflects a more general problem: that leaders of certain ideological backgrounds are not prepared to take the bold steps that require vision and to take measures that may conflict with their ideological beliefs. a few days before the european council, we heard nobel prize winner paul krugman say that the eu's stimulus package may not be enough. not 400 billion, 500 billion this year, and three trillion may be needed. so what we need is solidarity and active action, not an invisible hand.
mr president, president obama said: ‘america has no better partner than europe’. i believe that i speak on behalf of many of us when saying that this notion is mutual. the election of president obama started a new chapter in transatlantic relations that has suffered serious setbacks. as vice-chair of the delegation for relations with canada, i even had to witness, at one point, a situation where canada acted as a mediator between the european union and the united states. my second point: i welcome president obama’s commitment to diplomacy with the islamic republic of iran. however, as a supporter of the friends of a free iran, i hope that the democratic opposition of iran will also be involved. the negotiations with iran must be transparent in all aspects. this new era in eu-us relations will hopefully extend also to us relations with third countries. europe’s high expectations of president obama must now be backed by action.
mr president, mr millán mon has presented an important and excellent report. now the question is how to implement it without losing time. the global economic crisis offers a practical incentive for the world’s two largest democracies to join forces on the basis of shared values and similar economic systems, because more than half of the world’s gdp is produced by the united states and the eu together. mr severin has noted very well the strategic reciprocity that europe needs a strong united states and the us needs a strong europe. if these two partners could coordinate their activities better and more efficiently, this would exercise a profoundly positive effect on world stability as well as on so many specific regional problems. yes, more interest towards europe, more flexibility and openness offered by the new us administration is a welcome opportunity to be used. but it is necessary to remember at any time that relations with the us continue to be the eu’s most important strategic partnership. but it is not time for declarations; it is time for implementation and there are three concrete priorities this report is stressing. we call to agree on a common agenda of short- and long-term goals, on global as well as regional issues. we call to replace the 14-year-old relationship with a new transatlantic partnership agreement that should also include an economic council, and we call for the creation of a transatlantic political council as well as upgrading parliamentary relations in the form of a transatlantic assembly.
madam president, in 1948 president truman wrote, ‘now we are faced with exactly the same situation with which britain and france were faced in 1939 in dealing with hitler. a totalitarian state is no different, whether you call it nazi, fascist, communist or franco’s spain. the oligarchy in russia is a frankenstein dictatorship worse than any of the others, hitler included’. so the question is why, 61 years later, we still have to argue about the same problems. i think that today what we need is not only the economic and political enlargement of europe but the enlargement of european awareness of the massive crimes against humanity which occurred everywhere in europe in the 20th century. we need the integration of european historic perception – the integration of prejudices and different views of history – as only in this way can we proceed to the better europe of the future. no, we have to deal with, not argue about, the question of dictatorships. we must start with the victims – with the equality of victims – because every victim of any totalitarian regime is to be considered equal in human dignity and deserves justice and remembrance as well as europe-wide recognition and guarantees of ‘never again’. therefore i would say that it is hypocritical to shun or postpone this debate on these questions and the reaching of conclusions. it is not a matter for academic study. we have enough testimonies of mass crimes. we need political and moral will to proceed. i am very thankful, both to the czech presidency and to commissioner figeľ, for their statements, which give hope that we can reach an all-european understanding.
i am sure that no one in this room - including those who have more important things to do - can justify what happened 60 years ago today in the baltic states, when nearly 100 000 people, most of them women and children, were deported to siberia. it is all the more regrettable that in the current election campaign, there is an attempt to point the finger at the social democrats, as if they do not understand the criminality of what we are doing. the words 'socialism' and 'communism' may mean different things to different members of our group, but no one can justify the crimes committed. why do we need to talk about this? and not just historians, but politicians? but because without a fair assessment of the past, there's no guarantee that anything will be done to prevent it from happening again. it's important because the shadows of the past are not really gone. if it's hard to imagine hitler being put on a pedestal today, stalin's crest stands proudly in the central square of his hometown of gori. in russia, however, stalin was elected last year as one of the 12 great figures of history.
good people. can you imagine life without the internet? i'm not doing it anymore. i'm from estonia, which is the world leader in internet penetration. and that's probably why we have more experience with the dangers of the internet, from the cyberwarfare against the state two years ago, to the fact that our children have been victims of cyberbullying more than many others, as international studies show. in several recent reports, the european parliament has sought to answer the question: what is the internet? the more relevant question today is, perhaps, is the online world a kind of separate space -- a virtual world -- that doesn't belong to real life, or is it part of our public world? this is reflected in the report by mr lambrinidis, who says that our main task is to find the right balance between privacy and security. the restriction of internet rights is an immediate exercise of freedom of expression, which implies the right to freely disseminate ideas, opinions, beliefs and other information, but it also implies responsibility. i thank the rapporteur and wish us all the strength to be able to answer the question: what is the internet and whether and how to regulate it? as the internet is one of the most visible signs of globalisation, it also requires an international approach.
in writing. the parliament's report emphasises the usefulness of leniency programmes in exposing cartels and i am pleased to say that the draft leniency programmes are currently being discussed in the estonian parliament. this should be an important part of the fight against cartels, which is necessary both for the better functioning of the internal market and for defending consumer rights, as consumer prices can rise by as much as 25% as a result of cartel agreements. however, i believe that collective agreements also have an important role to play in the effective implementation of competition law and in improving consumer protection, and therefore we must also pay attention to this both in estonia and at eu level. studies have shown that collective actions would significantly improve consumer readiness to defend their rights, and in countries where consumer engagement is low, it is precisely because of the fear of the complexity and cost of such a step that a tool such as collective action is indispensable.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr onyszkiewicz for his hard work and honourable results. by the way, this is the last stand by the outgoing european parliament on relations with russia, and the strongest message this parliament has delivered is consistency based on our common european values. it is therefore opportune for us to remember that the basis for our relations with russia continues to be our colleague malmström’s report of several years ago; a report whose suggestions have still not been carried out. in the mean time, we are left in a sort of limbo, repeating again and again how important relations with russia are. that is true, but there is no need to repeat it. we need to become confident in our own strength, our own values and potential, as graham watson has proposed, and to live up to these values. we also have to conclude that there has been a qualitative change for the worse in russia. last august, russia almost occupied a sovereign neighbouring state. it is not enough just to criticise, or regret, continuing human rights violations in russia. the question is how to link these human rights and values to our practical behaviour. otherwise, we will be jointly responsible, at least indirectly, for gassing human rights and democratic values in russia in exchange for gas from russian pipelines.
in writing. eu-russia relations suffered badly in the past year. today, after the events in georgia, russia's readiness to build a common security area with the eu is questionable, and after the recognition of the enclaves of abkhazia and south ossetia, the parties' positions on kosovo and the common neighbourhood are increasingly divergent. confidence is not built by continuing conflicts with gas suppliers and the politicization of energy resources. i welcome the fact that mr onyszkiewicz's report calls on russia to confirm its commitments as a member of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, and expresses concern to the russian government about the human rights situation and the shrinking space for civil society in russia. in its report, parliament also drew attention to the situation of indigenous peoples in the russian federation and called on the russian authorities to ensure the preservation and sustainable development of the culture and language of the indigenous peoples living on its territory. the european union's relations with russia must be based on partnership, not confrontation. our relations with russia are crucial for pragmatic cooperation and such cooperation is also beneficial for international stability. but it must be based on values: democracy, market economy, promotion of human rights and freedom of expression, not just commercial interests and, according to those interests, seeing one thing but being a spasmodic chicken-blind on something else.
in writing. – the relations between the russian federation and the european union have seen several challenges in recent years. after the conflict between russia and georgia had unleashed in august last year, one might have felt inclined to think that good fences make good neighbours. in this case i am glad that the proverb had it wrong and the past president of the european council nicolas sarkozy successfully mediated the crisis. after the fall of the iron curtain the european union has forged a close interdependence with the russian federation that ought to be used to introduce a common understanding of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, while fostering reliable economic relations. frequent discords in recent years have distracted us from actually progressing towards that goal and the dialogue between the two entities has in fact become rather icy, taking the shape of "pragmatic cooperation." i very much support the suggestion to the council and the commission to continue to insist on an agreement based on a shared commitment to human rights, as stated in the report, because with no common values we are likely to end up with another unexpected crisis that calls for emergency measures.
in writing. the european union is founded on the common principles of liberty, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that all discrimination, including discrimination on grounds of sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or other opinion, membership of a national minority, economic status, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation, is prohibited. recognising the uniqueness of each individual and his or her equal right to the opportunities offered by life is one of the hallmarks of europe's united diversity, a central element in the cultural, political and social integration of the union. while there are many successes in the eu today, it is surprising that we still lack common rules on disability or sexual violence and harassment, and that the fundamental rights of these citizens are not adequately recognised in all member states. we have to admit that, unfortunately, the european legal framework for combating discrimination is far from perfect today. i welcome the new directive which creates a general framework for action in the eu to combat discrimination. it is likely that this will also lead to the application of the principle of equal treatment in the member states in a broader sense than in the labour market. combating discrimination means investing in the awareness of a society that develops through integration. however, to achieve integration, society must invest in training, information and the dissemination of good practice in order to find a fair compromise for the benefit and interests of all its citizens. we must therefore continue to work hard to eliminate discrimination in europe once and for all!
madam president, accession to the eu provided access to the european union’s structural and cohesion funds, from which the republic of estonia benefitted by around eur 800 million in 2004-2006, while another eur 3.4 billion have been allocated within the financial perspective 2007-2013. despite the gravity of the economic crisis, the objective of the european union funds, which is to level out the differences in development within the union, is closer to being achieved. i very much welcome the commission proposal to the council to commit an additional eur 6.3 billion to counteract the negative effects of the economic crisis, which is to say to accelerate implementation of the funds for the benefit of the real economy. however, i agree with the rapporteur, mr garcía pérez, that a uniform approach is needed in all the member states in order to avoid increasing disparities within the union and misuse of european taxpayers’ money.
mr president, this is a minor correction. the text now reads ‘whereas the central european countries had the added experience of communism’. i would like to change ‘central european countries’ to ‘central and eastern european countries’, because everywhere else the text reads this way, and to replace ‘had the added experience of communism’ with ‘have experienced both communism and nazism’, because, to eastern european nations, nothing was ‘added’ by communism: most of them had communism first, then nazism, and then communism again.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution as it provides a balanced and realistic overview of the relations between the european union and belarus. president lukashenko seems to be seeking better relations with both the european union and the russian federation. the release of political prisoners a year ago was the first sign of the lukashenko regime’s willingness to meet the demands of the eu and engage in serious dialogue. although the palliation of the regime’s oppression can be considered an improvement, a true regime transition has not started yet. i believe that the involvement of the democratic opposition in belarus, as well as civil society, is vital for a meaningful dialogue between the european union and belarus and eventually the key to the successful process of democratisation.
i supported the adoption of this resolution, which was the result of the cooperation of the four political groups. this document is balanced and it is better late than never. in fact, it's the most we can do in this room together for justice. we owe it to our parents and grandparents to deliver a strong parliamentary message and today we did. at the same time, it is our duty to prevent any recurrence of the matter by any means at our disposal. truth and memory are important here. it is our duty to ensure that the rule of law is respected.
i feel it necessary to explain why i supported this resolution, unlike many of my colleagues in the group, and why i did not support the version of my group. i can't agree with the rhetoric that the experiment is a rewriting of history. much of the history of eastern europe is unwritten or at least unconscious, and especially the part that deals with the crimes of communism. nor can i support the approach that we should leave it to historians to decide what was involved. i consider it our moral duty and i am glad that this resolution was adopted today.
i voted for this report because it is very important. there are a lot of problems in this area. we cannot stand by and watch as at least six million pupils drop out of european schools every year. what does that mean for them? it means the failure of future or future life views. this is where the 21st century school comes in, with a good social climate, the use of different pedagogical methods, openness and flexibility. and of course, the design of a consistent learning curve. europe is ageing. we're not rich enough to put off discussing this. all children must receive an education that will give them a fair chance in today's world. our young people must be competitive and not just competitive: education policy must contribute to the development of personality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of kathalijne maria buitenweg's report on equal treatment of people irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. i find it absolutely outrageous that in the 21st century in the european parliament there are still disagreements about something as natural as equal treatment of people. the fact that 226 meps voted against the report was a negative surprise and a clear sign of danger, which cannot be ignored. tolerance is one of the cornerstones of the european union and combating discrimination of any kind must be our top priority. the european union's motto "united in diversity" does not only stand for different nationalities of the eu, but first and foremost involves the citizens of the european union with their individual differences. all eu citizens are equal and must be treated that way, only then can the european union live up to its motto.
in writing. i would like to thank the rapporteurs who dealt with the energy package and to express special thanks to the rapporteur, mr morgan, who did a lot of important work on consumer protection issues. i am particularly pleased that the new package also addresses the issue of energy poverty. member states that have not yet done so, including my home country of estonia, should develop a national action plan to combat energy poverty in order to reduce the number of people suffering from energy poverty. especially in the current economic climate, this is very necessary. in estonia, there is a serious need to address this issue, as heating costs have increased significantly in recent years. direct subsidies to uninsured consumers, as is done in the uk, is an important measure, but could also improve the energy efficiency of housing, which would be particularly effective in estonia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the results of the vote. there's a saying in the legal profession, two lawyers, three opinions. i do not wish to question the decisions of the court of justice here, but i cannot accept that the decision on patient mobility policy has so far been taken by lawyers. all medical care, regardless of its specific nature, falls within the scope of the treaty. the aim of the social action plan we approved last year would not be achieved unless we take on a significant part of it, namely the rights of patients in crossborder healthcare. it is our duty as the elected representatives of the people to finally establish legal and political certainty in this very important area. the directive in question, while not eliminating inequalities in healthcare in the member states, is a major step towards justice and equal opportunities for patients. it is not acceptable that we affirm justice in theory, but in practice ignore it because of national financial constraints. financial restrictions, however justified, cannot legitimise the disregard or the endangerment of patients' rights. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr john bow, for his responsible and very competent work.
open healthcare is a fundamental right and privilege. the 37 000 deaths per year caused by infections in health care are too many and we cannot afford or accept this as european citizens. the principle of subsidiarity requires the european union institutions, and in particular the commission, to play a major role in promoting the dissemination of information and best practices in this field. i must stress the need to provide concrete and urgent solutions to achieve a decisive and lasting reduction of nosocomial infections in europe. i support the rapporteur's proposals for this report.
i believe that coordinated action at eu and national level in the field of rare diseases is absolutely essential. i support the rapporteur's view that this council recommendation and action plan in its current form are insufficient and cannot be used to create a programme that works in the european union. there are no more specific proposals and no specific deadlines for implementation. it is clear that breakthroughs in this area are not possible without the efforts and funding of the european union and the member states. i believe that rare diseases must necessarily be given special attention at european level and that we must take full account of the specific needs of these millions of citizens, so that they can enjoy a life of dignity in the future. i do not agree with the statement by mr claey that tuberculosis is coming into our member states from third countries. i don't agree with that. tuberculosis comes with poverty and homelessness. and in the lower-income member states, it's not common today.
i have a lot of explaining to do, i've never done it before, but i thought it was important to do it today. i would like to speak first of all about mr grosch's report, for which i voted in favour and which also supported the proposals of the committee on transport, because i think that the adoption of a new regulation, reworded and updated, is entirely justified, instead of the two regulations on bus services. this step will help to clarify and reduce red tape.
the next report is that of silvia-adriana ţicău, which i also supported, because it also makes it possible to ensure a more uniform application of the new regulation in the road transport sector. i think that, given the international nature of this field, we should also plan to allow pan-european queries to be made in these registers, in order to better protect customers from unfair competition.
i also supported mr grosch's report, which is also dedicated to transport and will help to improve the efficiency of the internal road transport market, legal certainty, reduce administrative costs and allow fairer competition. i believe that the integration of the european single market should lead in the coming years to the abolition of restrictions on access to the internal market of the member states.
i supported mrs ţicău's second report on the energy efficiency of buildings, which will make a major contribution to meeting the challenges of europe's energy supply and demand. this means that it helps to save 20% of energy consumption through increased energy efficiency. investments in energy efficiency are also helping to market europe's economy today, as they create almost as many jobs, perhaps even more, than investments in traditional infrastructure. increasing energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way for the european union to achieve its co2 emissions reduction target, create jobs and reduce the eu's growing dependence on external energy suppliers.
mr gauzèsi i don't know if i'm voting the name correctly the report is about the rating agencies and that report also found support because the shortcomings and errors in the ratings and their supervision have in turn contributed to the global financial crisis. the very small number of rating agencies, their global scope of activity and their headquarters often outside the community raise for me, unfortunately, the question of how effective a single european legal instrument can be. i agree that the solution to this problem requires increased cooperation between the community and third countries, and that is the only way to achieve a harmonised regulatory framework.
the report on the rights of passengers travelling by sea and inland waterway is very welcome, as it will help to increase the rights of europeans travelling by these means of transport and ensure that our consumers have equal rights when using different modes of transport.
i support mr albertini's report on the rights of bus passengers, because measures to protect the rights of bus passengers will finally help to eliminate the inequalities that have existed in the european union and will ensure equal treatment for all passengers, as is already the case today for air and rail users. as this legislation affects both carriers and passengers and as it imposes many new obligations on carriers, it is reasonable that a slightly longer period of application should be granted to service providers for certain requirements in order to achieve a better result.
mrs jensen's report on intelligent transport systems their implementation has proven its effectiveness in making transport more efficient, safer and more secure, while also contributing to the political objective of making transport cleaner. on that basis, i voted in favour of the report.
the report by mr ulrich stockmann on the marco polo ii programme is worth supporting because it has the potential to reduce road congestion, improve the environmental performance of the transport system and promote the convergence of modes of transport. however, i am concerned that each year the number of applications for financial assistance and therefore the number of planned projects that could be funded under this programme is decreasing.
mr duchon's report was supported because rail transport continues to play a very important role in the european transport framework today, despite the continuing decline in freight transport. i also supported the report because i agreed with the rapporteur that the legislation in question should be drafted in such a way as to make the rail network efficient for all users in the future.
we also discussed this morning and just voted on certain reports on the health care package. i supported the protection of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare because i believe that for too long elected members of the european parliament have been satisfied with lawyers making the law in this area the law should be made by politicians, that is, by members of parliament elected by european voters. it is high time that this directive was dealt with and adopted.
the trakatellis report on rare diseases is a continuation of the patient rights report which i supported, but did not support proposition 15 in this report because it is a proposal from the last century and politics should not affect genetic research.
the report on urban mobility and its action plan were worthy of support, since urban transport plays a very important role in the transport of goods and passengers in the community. therefore, the development of a separate urban transport strategy is fully justified.
and lastly, i would like to mention mrs anne jensen's report on the intelligent transport systems action plan, because this action plan focuses on geographical coherence.
in writing. − i voted for amendment 79 to turn the proposal on extending the term of sound copyrights beyond 50 years back to the committee. in my opinion the commission’s draft needs to be better prepared, and therefore parliament should take more time in order to make its decision. in its present version the commission’s draft seems to provide an objective ground to establish artificial monopolies in cultural works. i fully agree that many artists benefit too little from their work. however, the solution is not to indulge the production companies more, but to really shift benefits from them to artists and performers.
on behalf of the pse group dear colleagues, i have always been a great supporter of moldova, but the current crisis is making me very worried. although it is a small country and in need of help, we cannot turn a blind eye to violations of the rule of law. the european union's relations with moldova remain of paramount importance to us, but we cannot hope that the european union will be made up of naive, blue-eyed people who believe everything that the moldovan authorities put in our heads. the forthcoming european parliament ad hoc mission to moldova is of great importance. no subject can be taboo. we want to know how the police behaved with the protesters after the elections. the european union, and in particular its directly elected representatives, is committed to upholding human rights not in words but in deeds. unfortunately, at the previous meeting of the foreign affairs committee and the moldovan delegation, the republic of moldova gave the signal that europe must also be prepared for the monologues in chişinău. we do not accept this, because european integration means open dialogue. so the partners discuss everything with each other. i believe in the eastern partnership, as well as in the possibility of democracy in moldova. let's help moldova, then.
in writing. the annual loss of revenue from tax fraud in the eu is estimated to total more than eur 200 billion across all tax categories, equivalent to almost 2% of gdp. the billions of euros lost each year due to tax fraud represent a reduction in additional investment and public spending in the general interest for eu member states, which also significantly reduces the ability of member states to address emerging challenges in areas such as social, health and education in the context of the current financial crisis. the fight against tax fraud is a matter of utmost importance for the eu and we must continue to play a leading role in this regard! only in this way can a situation be achieved where significant financial centres outside the european union apply measures equivalent to those applied in the member states. i support the european commission's idea that, with due regard to the principle of free movement of capital enshrined in the ec treaty, the need to include provisions that would thwart attempts by eu residents to circumvent the application of the deposit guarantee directive by channelling interest earned in the eu through tax-exempt shell companies or entities located outside the eu or outside territories where measures equivalent or identical to those agreed at eu level are applied should also be considered. tax havens should be declared zero tolerance. any delay in finding solutions that ensure a fairer and more consistent application of the measures is unacceptable in the current economic situation!
in writing. – mr president, every human being has a right for a humane life, meaning that a person should not be discriminated on any basis including gender. unfortunately the human rights, that for us, europeans, are natural, are being widely violated in various countries around the world. since the overthrowing of taliban, the situation in afghanistan has improved, however in reality, there have not been many positive developments as far as human rights are concerned. the continuous violations against women are absolutely unacceptable and it is highly important for the european union to put pressure on afghan government in order to get the situation under control. even more outrageous than several controversial laws concerning the equality between men and women, is the fact, that men are still widely being regarded higher than women in afghan society itself. therefore the european union must support the awareness campaigns promoting gender equality and human rights.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, we are here today to prevent a potential, large-scale, human tragedy from taking place. almost 4 000 people, members of the iranian opposition, are in imminent danger of being deported by the iraqi authorities back to iran, whose regime has already executed more than 22 000 of their friends. by the way, these are the people who have exposed the tehran secret nuclear programme and are opposing the terrorism-exporting regime by peaceful means. it is in the interests of the democratic credibility of the iraqi government, as well as the us administration, which has granted their status as protected persons, to protect their lives, respect their free will and dignity and guarantee their safe future under international law. but, first of all, we call on the iraqi government to lift the blockade of camp ashraf.
in writing. − mr president, i encouraged all my liberal colleagues to vote against the amendments of the greens/efa and the pes, as the draft resolution was well balanced already and those amendments did not accord to the spirit and essence of the resolution. criticizing and accusing the pmoi, one of the most prominent opposition movements of the iranian people with no substantial evidence looks awfully like an attempt to appease the authoritarian regime of the islamic republic of iran. i cannot imagine how anyone could feel comfortable doing a favour to this oppressive regime by supporting the amendments that provide an opportunity for iran to attack and weaken the opposition movement that has been advocating for human rights and democracy in iran. i would like to thank all my colleagues who supported the original draft resolution that by no means threatened the lives and integrity of the people in camp ashraf. we must engage them to bring about a regime transition in iran that would ensure peace and security in region that has been one of the must unpredictable and instable for more than decades.
mr president, thank you for your congratulations on the anniversary of the enlargement of the european union. at the end of this term, i should like to pay tribute to the activities of parliament’s baltic europe intergroup, which has drawn practical conclusions from the last enlargement, with the baltic sea becoming, in fact, the union’s internal sea. it has initiated a new european policy – the baltic sea strategy. we can be truly satisfied that, under the creative and skilful leadership of christopher beazley, the baltic sea strategy has won the support of the commission and will soon be introduced by the swedish presidency. therefore, i strongly suggest that the activities of this intergroup be continued in the next european parliament. implementation of the baltic sea strategy will be a long process that needs parliamentary supervision and, occasionally, reports. i also hope that the activities of the intergroups, as a basic form of parliamentary democracy, will not be restricted in the next european parliament. here i am repeating the message delivered by my colleague mr bushill-matthews.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the commission is not a party to the treaty. better reconciliation of work and family life is one of the six priority areas of action defined in the guidelines for equality between women and men. we all know that the european union is facing demographic problems, characterised by low birth rates and an increasing proportion of the elderly. but it is certainly not the best way to solve the problem to give employers financial incentives for encouraging their female employees to have children. amendment no 22, especially the second part, cannot be supported. motherhood and fatherhood are fundamental rights that are very important for the balance of society. the involvement of both parents in the child's life and from the first months of life is also very important. but i cannot agree to the request for compulsory paternity leave. we'd be doing a little family a favor with that. usually, the father makes more money. the paternity leave regulation must be flexible, it is the only way to achieve positive results. finally, i would like to thank mrs estrela for her hard work.
it is clear that we must recognise the need to apply the principle of equal treatment more effectively to men and women who work as fie and to the spouses who assist them. unfortunately, assisting spouses do not constitute a single large target group and in most member states their status is neither regulated nor their work recognised. they have no social protection, they are at high risk of poverty, they are completely prey to the social protection aspect of divorce. i therefore consider that the inclusion of assisting spouses in the social protection system should be made compulsory and that a framework of minimum guarantees should be established.
in writing. the new rules introduced by the new telecoms package will help to regulate the telecoms market and promote consumer protection. consumers will find it much easier to obtain information from their service provider and to switch between service providers. the contractual information shall state whether the consumer is bound by the contract for a specific period of time. the service providers may not retain consumers for more than 24 months. moving a phone number from one service provider to another must be done within one business day. the transparency of service provision has been improved, consumers have the opportunity to compare prices on websites and local operators can be obliged to offer services to disabled people. consumers may request a price cap when their consumption reaches a certain limit in a month. if a service provider inadvertently disseminates someone's personal data online, they must properly inform the person. the new rules will also help to regulate the telecommunications market and to bring new services to the market. the coordination of radio spectrum management in the eu will allow for completely new services and remove barriers that have existed until now, for example to watch tv programmes on mobile phones. the powers of national regulators have been increased and a new eu regulator has been created, with the aim of strengthening independent market surveillance, which will certainly benefit consumers as well. thank you!
madam president, i would like to congratulate the czech presidency on the initiative to come forward with an eastern partnership which will shortly be officially introduced, and i would like to call upon the member state governments to fully commit themselves to this initiative. above all, our neighbours in the east need to feel themselves as equal partners that are genuinely accepted as long-term associates. i agree that the eastern partnership should be governed by the principles of joint ownership, differentiation and conditionality. however, the main goal is to secure a convincing victory for democratisation and the establishment of the rule of law in these countries. as for belarus, we need step-by-step progress in reacting to every sign of concrete progress towards democracy by belarus’ current leaders. one of the most crucial aspects of the eastern partnership is going to be visa freedom. i would like to remind you of the commission’s proposal from last december to remove all visa requirements over time for the citizens of the six future partners. unfortunately, this revolutionary approach was replaced by a much more modest one: an offer to introduce long-term simplified visa procedures on a case-by-case basis. a successful eastern partnership, however, needs determination on our side and a positive openness. it is vital to motivate our partners to make a full commitment to european values and rules. this applies especially to ukraine. we cannot start our eastern partnership with vague and hesitant messages about ukraine’s future. a democratic and firmly european ukraine is key to a democratic, reliable and law-abiding russia.
i would like to welcome the reorganization of the global fund. in my home country of estonia, this fund has not been used, and when i asked why, i was told that the conditions were very difficult and that the limit, which was up to now one thousand people, did not allow for this. we don't have that many big companies. we've had a few smaller ones go bankrupt. so, lowering this limit to 500 would certainly also give estonia - where the unemployment rate is already very high - opportunities and certainly changing this financing percentage would also be very useful. so once again i welcome the changes that are being made to this fund.
in writing. – in a few days, european leaders and stakeholders will meet at the employment summit. rapidly rising unemployment has become the core problem of the current financial crisis. it is a deeply human problem: in fact, the biggest social injustice europe has. what the government leaders and politicians need is to address the situation with imagination and concrete measures. 2009 is the year of innovation and creativity. europe has to take this opportunity to reduce unemployment. the best way is to stimulate the creation of new jobs. the key issue is supporting small and medium-sized businesses. one practical way is also to ease the bureaucratic rules for applying for european funds. smes create jobs and will be a major instrument for reducing unemployment in the future, provided that we in the eu efficiently support them. moreover, europe has to invest in education, especially in life-long learning. unemployment is a big shock to everyone. first of all, the eu and member states need to help people to overcome this shock and be prepared for alternative solutions, in order to re-enter the labour market again as soon as possible. investing in innovation, research and development and life-long learning is the best way to achieve this.
in writing. in the current global economic crisis (i.e. the economic recession and rising unemployment), the reality on the eu labour market is that more and more people are being made redundant, further increasing the total number of people in poverty and exclusion in europe. it is now essential that social inclusion and related labour market policies are also pursued through an integrated and coherent approach in the european economic recovery plan. nor should member states sacrifice social, health and education sectors in their budgetary cuts, as these are the main areas where the reintegration of people at risk of poverty is promoted. it must be acknowledged that linking social assistance and active participation in the labour market in the member states is often very difficult, especially when the work available is short-term, seasonal or part-time and when the conditions for receiving benefits and social protection systems or the threshold rates do not provide an incentive to take up such paid work. we need to make the social security system more flexible in the new circumstances, as is the case today. i believe that the social assistance provided must guarantee a minimum income sufficient to enable a decent life, above the poverty line and sufficient to lift a person out of poverty, rather than deepening it further by its rigidity.
madam president, the human rights situation in the world looks grim, and several large countries – important partners of the eu – are being mentioned. therefore, it is important that parliament’s resolution insists on greater attention being paid to human rights, especially political rights, in the negotiation and implementation of bilateral trade agreements, even when concluded with important trade partners. so the question is: what can we do in practical terms to improve the situation? maybe we should start with attempts to ‘de-schröderise’ europe. however, democratic countries cannot avoid their part in responsibility for this grim situation in large parts of the world. let us take russia. on the eu-russia human rights consultations, parliament’s conclusion is devastating. the eu has not succeeded in bringing about any change of policy in russia, particularly as regards the independence of the judiciary, treatment of human rights defenders and political prisoners. the khodorkovsky case is just symbolic. one month of his second trial has shown the scope of change that has happened in the last six years. the judiciary in criminal cases has been totally subordinated to state power. finally, i would like to stress parliament’s message to the council to respond in a substantive manner, especially to parliament’s urgency resolutions. the european parliament embodies, in the best possible way, the democratic conscience of our planet. it reacts rapidly and resolutely to the human tragedies all around the world. however, to have a real impact on the human rights situation, we expect the council’s rapid and positive reaction. it is often also the problem of values versus economic interest.
in writing. – mr president, i very much welcome the idea of the establishment of the european asylum support office, as the situation in third countries, especially in africa and the middle east, is continuously deteriorating. i object to any notions of ‘fortress europe’ that would be isolated from the problems of the third world, many of which have directly or indirectly been caused by the former colonizers. europe cannot turn its back on its commitments to countries that once were recklessly exploited. the european asylum support office will provide a coordinated approach to the common european asylum policy. i agree with the principle of solidarity within the european union when it comes to asylum seekers. the borders of some member states constitute the external border of the european union, and therefore they are constantly affected by flows of immigration. hopefully the european asylum support office will help to ease the burden of the member states concerned.
we are here tonight - or rather, late at night - to discuss the implementation of the lisbon treaty. preparing for the entry into force of the agreement and doing so in a timely manner is a sign of responsibility. good preparation for the entry into force of such an important treaty will ensure that the european union functions well and will enable it to perform more effectively the tasks that european citizens expect from their elected representatives. maybe the steps aren't long enough. some citizens think that the charter of fundamental rights is too rhetorical, but the lisbon treaty is a serious step forward. it has become a response to the needs of the european union. in supporting the treaty, the parliaments elected by the people of 26 member states have done so. today's reports show that the european parliament is creative in its confidence, having also taken a pragmatic approach to the content of the transition phase. pessimism and stretching tactics won't create a new one. i thank the rapporteur for her courage and skill in producing the necessary documents.
not every report has our inboxes full of interesting material both for and against, with both concern and sometimes injustice. i voted in favour of adopting this common position because i am pleased that the proposals that measures affecting users' access to the internet must respect fundamental rights have found support. the privacy and consumer protection issues related to electronic communications were also addressed in a balanced manner.
the adoption of the legal framework will provide the opportunity to ensure that europeans benefit from the progress made in the field of high-speed fixed and wireless communications, to accelerate the development of innovative and high-value-added services and to achieve 100% broadband internet coverage. we need legal standards for people's rights to use the internet. these were the positions that enabled me to support mrs trautmann's report.
it is clear that we must recognise the need to apply the principle of equal treatment more effectively to men and women who work as fie and to the spouses who assist them. 22 years ago, the directive was adopted. the european parliament and the commission have consistently called for a revision of this directive, because life has made its corrections. and today we have reached the point where amendments to the directive have been adopted, a new directive has been adopted which will improve the situation of assisting spouses, whether in agriculture, the craft sector, trade, small and mediumsized enterprises or the professions. i welcomed the decision and supported the report.
i supported the adoption of mr wojciechowski's report because i think we have removed one of the existing examples of duplicity. we are standing up for the lives of animals outside the european union, which is commendable, but we turn a blind eye to what is happening in our own backyard. the aim of this report is to eliminate this contradiction and to bring about harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to animal welfare standards at slaughter or killing. that report sounded like a good conscience.
european social models are faced with a number of challenges, such as demographic change and globalisation, which also affect them. the european social models must therefore be modernised with a long-term perspective, while preserving their original values. in the context of the current economic crisis, it is of the utmost importance that social policy goes hand in hand with economic policy. for these measures to be effective, they should be built democratically, i.e. from the bottom up, and implemented at local level, that is, closer to the citizens. it was on these principles that the motion for a resolution was based and therefore it was possible to support the motion for a resolution tabled by mr silva peneda.
sometimes it's good to be first, sometimes it's good to be last. i would like to mention the following: namely, in the current severe economic crisis, the reality on the european union's labour market is that more and more people are being laid off, which in turn increases the total number of people suffering from poverty and exclusion in europe. it is now essential that social inclusion and related labour market policies are also pursued through an integrated and coherent approach in the european economic recovery plan. we have talked a lot about the flexibility of labour market policy. it is high time we also talked about social policy flexibility. i am thinking here of the need for labour market policy and social assistance policy to be linked. it's the demand of the situation. the report supported the active inclusion of the excluded from the labour market and i found it very positive to support the adoption of the report as voted.
author. − madam president, iran is notorious for its human rights record, as was noted just yesterday during the debate on the human rights situation in the world. today we are addressing the case of roxana saberi, a journalist who had her trial just three weeks ago and was condemned to eight years in prison for so-called espionage. the fact is that ms saberi has had no access to her lawyer for more than a month. there was no chance of a fair or transparent trial, because the trial was held in camera. she was on hunger strike for at least two weeks. it is true that she has ended this, but her health is in a very precarious state. therefore, we are here today to address a message to the iranian authorities that we clearly condemn the sentence pronounced by the iranian revolutionary court on 18 april 2009 and ask that ms saberi be immediately and unconditionally freed on the basis that the trial was held in camera, without legal process. i would like to add that iran is notorious for its massive, systematic public executions, whether by stoning or by hanging, including of juvenile offenders. that, too, is part of our message.
as a representative of estonia, a neighbouring country connected to sweden by the baltic sea, i would like to focus first on one of the priorities of the presidency, namely the baltic sea strategy. the strategy launched by my social democrat colleague in the previous parliamentary composition, with the active participation of the current estonian president, toomas hendrik ilves, is of great importance to the whole of europe and i would like to thank the president for making it a priority. it is also a good example of how members' initiatives produce concrete results. i call on the swedish presidency to implement the baltic sea strategy, which is a rare opportunity at the moment. this means that the current budget deficit must be filled with money, so to speak, from the european union budget. i hope that the strategy will be adopted during the swedish presidency of the european council. and two other areas that are important to me: as a former finance minister, i attach great importance to dealing with the economic crisis and implementing common policies on both financial sector transparency... (interruption)
mr president, i would like to congratulate the swedish presidency on its historic opportunity to steer the eu toward implementation of the lisbon treaty. i would like to make three points. first, it is of extreme importance to have the new commission made operational as soon as possible. institutional uncertainty cannot be used as an excuse to delay the formation of the new commission. these arguments sound really hypocritical. to come out of the economic crisis and to create new jobs, we need more than ever a strong, independent and innovative commission. second, i would like to commend the swedish presidency on taking the lead in the implementation of the baltic sea strategy, which was initiated by the european parliament. however, there is also a special budget line for this strategy which is still empty. we cannot expect a positive change in the environmental situation in the baltic sea by relying only on ad hoc projects. we certainly need also coordinated support from the eu budget. third, for estonia the stockholm programme is important. it should also include a programme for using modern it. i am wondering whether the establishment of an agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice would be of help in implementing this strategy.
mr president, a crucial change has taken place in iran. our first conclusions, therefore, should be that iran is not and will not be the same again. it is because millions of iranians have refused to be hostages of their clerical rulers. they have demonstrated an amazing courage in challenging the dictatorship. the issue, therefore, is not about rigging so-called elections more than usual. this time, blatantly rigged votes provided an outlet for a popular protest the experts outside iran could not or were not willing to expect. this reminds me of the situation 20 years ago in eastern europe: while the western governments were prepared for a long-term accommodation and pragmatic coexistence with the soviet totalitarian system, suddenly millions of hostages of the communist regime became active: they challenged the system, which was brought to a sudden end. therefore, it is important to realise that the european approach to iran cannot remain the same – just turning a blind eye to routinely rigged elections and systematic repression. it is estimated that during 30 years of dictatorship more than five million people have been imprisoned, more than 200 000 tortured to death and recently more than 200 killed. the eu governments have been too hesitant in condemning these atrocious crimes and to make the regime bear responsibility for its behaviour. if we are serious about protecting the rights of iranian citizens, we need to be prepared to cause the dictators real pain. what does this mean? we should, for example, ban any of the leaders of the regime from travelling to the eu; we should recall our ambassadors from iran as a gesture of our indignation; and free elections can take place in iran only under un supervision.
banking needs to be supervised. this is also the position of the council of europe and the european commission. the european commission's consumer protection study, released in february, highlighted a number of negative trends in banking. as an estonian elected representative, i will give examples specifically from estonia, which concerned two swedish banks operating in estonia. the problem is that these banks treat consumers in estonia differently from consumers in their home country. both the prices of banking services and the interest rates are significantly higher for the estonian consumer. for example, the interest rate varies from 0.21% in sweden to 12.2% in estonia so the difference is six times. using the financial crisis as a justification for different treatment is not in line with the values of the european union. and i would like to ask what the presidency, sweden, says and how long this situation with their banks in estonia will last.
mr president, 23 august 2009 marked the 70th anniversary of the infamous nazi-soviet pact which divided europe. i think that this is a shocking example of how close seemingly opposite political extremes can become. both moscow and berlin then agreed that the first task was to bring down the democratic political order in europe; both moscow and berlin sought to achieve the domination of the world. therefore we should never forget that to launch world war two it took two dictators. stalin, four days before signing this pact, explained the point of it to his comrades: ‘it is in the interests of the soviet union that war breaks out between the reich and the capitalist anglo-french bloc. everything must be done so that the war lasts as long as possible in order that both sides become exhausted. then we would have a large arena to develop the world revolution.’ i would like to remind members of the european parliament resolution of last april to mark 23 august as a joint day of commemoration for victims of all totalitarian regimes.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? it is a great pleasure for me to present one of the swedish presidency's main priorities - the development of the baltic sea strategy. this is a proposal that is very much inspired by the initiative taken by the european parliament in 2005 in a cross-party working group led by christopher beazley. sweden intends to use the presidency to develop a coherent and comprehensive strategy for the area based on proposals from the commission. one of the main events is a large high-level meeting which will take place in stockholm tomorrow and the day after. of course, sweden and the neighbouring countries have a great interest in the baltic sea strategy, but we also believe that it can serve as a model for other regions and other regional strategies from which the whole of the eu can benefit. by working together across borders and across sectors in a particular region, we can collectively and more effectively tackle common challenges such as pollution and environmental degradation, create new business and job opportunities, and improve transport connections. it is therefore important that regional strategies are part of a broader european policy. the proposal for a baltic sea strategy was the result of a request from the european council to the commission in december 2007, and the initiative was supported by the european parliament in a resolution of 12 december 2007. the strategy is expected to be endorsed by the european council at the end of october. the strategy aims to improve the environment in the baltic sea and to increase integration and competitiveness in the region. the strategy focuses on four specific challenges: ensuring a sustainable environment, increasing welfare, increasing accessibility and attractiveness, and ensuring the safety and security of the area. one of the main priorities is of course to tackle the environment. there are very serious threats to the environment in the baltic sea, which in turn means that economic development is likely to be affected. it is a very sensitive marine environment, exposed to various types of environmental impacts. what is needed is swift and decisive action. in particular, the over-fertilisation and algal blooms caused by the excess nutrients threaten the ecological balance of the baltic sea. at the same time, the baltic sea is also affected by pollution from land-based sources, hazardous substances and the effects of climate change. the urgent and serious environmental threats make the baltic sea a clear environmental priority and we hope to be able to adopt conclusions on this in december. but the serious health situation in the baltic sea is not the only challenge facing the region. the economic crisis has made the issue of jobs and growth a topical one. most of the baltic sea countries are small and dependent on exports. this means that we must increase integration in order to strengthen competitiveness around the whole baltic sea. here we have clear ambitions and goals. we want the single market to work better in our region than anywhere else, and we want the new lisbon strategy for jobs and growth to be effectively implemented in this part of europe. we must face this crisis with greater cooperation and commitment in our own communities. global competitiveness requires cooperation across borders between countries and businesses, in research and through innovation. the aim of the baltic sea strategy is not to create new institutions. instead, the aim is to use the instruments and policies that already exist so that together they can benefit the area in a more strategically coordinated and intelligent way. the strategy also does not provide any new funding for the area. it is based on existing eu programmes and structures and on finding better ways of coordinating. of course, we will not achieve our goals in a snap, but we are ambitious in our aims. we deserve a cleaner baltic sea at the heart of an area that offers the prospect of sustainable economic development across borders, with the support of the whole of the eu. if we can achieve this, i am convinced that we will both serve the interests of the baltic sea region and hopefully also create a model that can be adapted and effectively applied in other regions. i would like to thank the commission for the good cooperation we have had on this matter, and not least the european parliament, which is the institution that initially took the initiative and has always been the driving force in baltic sea cooperation.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start by thanking parliament for having included the new strategy for the baltic sea region on the agenda of its plenary session. the high visibility this provides for the strategy is extremely welcome. of course it is not a complete surprise to me that parliament is taking such an interest in the strategy. the pioneering work undertaken by parliament through its baltic interparliamentary group in particular was very much one of the catalysts for the whole macro-regional strategy approach. the baltic sea strategy has required a completely new approach from the european commission as it is the first time that we have prepared an integrated strategy for a group of member states who have to face the same challenges and who may benefit from the same opportunities. i will not hide the fact that the preparatory work has brought challenges of its own, but these have been overcome successfully. the four pillars of the strategy provide an overarching framework for improving the overall situation of the baltic sea region. by addressing the environment, the economy, energy and transport and safety and security issues, the strategy provides an integrated approach covering several policy areas while ensuring close interaction among the fields concerned. since the commission adopted the strategy in june, the swedish presidency has led positive and constructive discussions in council which are to lead to conclusions already in october. this rapid progress is important if we are to maintain momentum as we enter the implementation phase of the strategy. i would like to underline this point as it must be clear that all our preparatory work on the strategic framework that i have just described will count for nought unless we start to deliver genuine visible concrete results on the ground. hence the importance of the strategy’s action plan which has also been drawn up during the preparatory work. the implementation of an action plan will require real cooperation, commitment and leadership from member states and regional stakeholders to deliver the 80 or so projects included at this stage. in financial terms, although there is no additional financing from the eu budget, the strategy proposes a more coordinated use of existing funds and a more imaginative approach to other funding sources such as the european investment bank or the nordic investment bank. i would now like to say a few words about the planned governance system which is proposed for the operational implementation of the strategy. this is one area where there has been much discussion among the member states, but the overall approach is that policy orientations will be taken by the council. the coordination monitoring and reporting is done by the commission and the implementation on the ground is led by the member states or organisations of the baltic sea region. in addition, the commission proposes to play the role of a facilitator in the case of difficulties. however, i would stress that the commission has neither the capacity nor the desire to lead the delivery of the action plan itself. responsibility must rest with the relevant member states and other stakeholders directly involved on the ground. this is the only way to ensure that the ownership of a strategy is in the hands of the member states and other stakeholders. so what are the next steps? once we have conclusions from the council and the european council, we will take forward the implementation phase of the strategy. here we expect to see a wave of coordination meetings to kick-start the various priority areas and individual projects included in the action plan. the first formal assessment of progress made will be presented under the polish presidency in the second half of 2011. however, prior to that the first annual forum of the baltic sea strategy will take place next year. this will give all stakeholders an opportunity to consider how the first months of the strategy have gone and what lessons might be already drawn at that stage. i would like to conclude by saying that i look forward to continuing to work closely with parliament on all aspects of strategy. the commission very much expects parliament to be actively involved in events such as the annual forum. your backing is crucial to maintain widespread visibility for the strategy to maintain high-level political support for the strategy and to maintain pressure on the member states and the regional actors to deliver results.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the ppe group congratulates the swedish presidency on its leadership in starting to implement the baltic sea strategy (bss). this strategy reflects a fundamental change that took place in this region five years ago. since 2004 the baltic has become the eu’s internal sea. that is why the union needs a comprehensive approach so as to react in a coordinated way to both the opportunities and challenges this new situation presents. furthermore, the bss is an example of excellent cooperation between the main institutions of the eu. as you might know – and as it has been said – the strategy in question was initiated by parliament three years ago, more precisely by the baltic europe intergroup under the excellent leadership of christopher beazley. i would also like to express my special gratitude to commission president barroso. his understanding and support since 2007 were crucial in preparing a practical version of the strategy, which resulted in the commission communication last june. i would like to make three points. first, the goal of the initiators was to turn the baltic sea area into one of the most competitive and rapidly developing regions of the eu. provided we make maximum use of the bss, this region could well become a success story of what is now called the lisbon programme. second, just now, more than ever, the region needs better access to and security of energy supplies. the eu and member states have to agree on providing alternative channels for energy deliveries. first and foremost it comes down to creating a united energy system around the baltic sea. finally, the issue of the bilateral and primarily political nord stream project should be settled through respecting the rightful interests of all states around the sea and certainly not before the russian government joins the espoo convention.
in writing. the current situation of the milk market makes it clear that our sector is not yet ready to cope with the consequences of the global economic crisis. consequently, the development of the cap should continue to be geared towards greater competitiveness and, in the longer term, less market organisation. the cap 'health check' is a step in the right direction and staying on track in the post-2013 cap discussions is the only way to strengthen the sector.
mr president, we have three main concerns with nabucco. the project is being developed too slowly and in a lacklustre way, and we do not like the commission’s position, reiterated by mr landaburu a week ago, which stated that the commission is neutral between south stream and nabucco. the commission should be in favour of nabucco. secondly, we wish the commission to become more active vis-à-vis those member state governments that time and again seek to gain a competitive edge and advantages at the expense of other member states. i will not mention those countries today other than to say that one has a capital called rome. if we do not move quickly with nabucco we will witness unpleasant events similar to those in hungary where the surgutneftegas company obtained a critical amount of shares in the hungarian company mol. a similar situation also prevails in baumgarten, austria. otherwise, mr commissioner, we wish you good luck in creating the common energy policy still missing in the eu.
, in writing. – this debate has become an additional proof of how badly the eu needs a united energy policy. there are members who urge the commission and member states to take concrete coordinated measures in the spirit of solidarity and who propose to act like the eu already had such a policy. their efforts have not only political and moral but also practical value because as representatives of the citizens they can speed up the creation of the common energy policy. there are others who use the absence of such a policy as an excuse to justify their bilateral deals with suppliers which often ignore the requirements of transparency and fair competition, not to mention european solidarity. this is a short-sighted and risky approach which plays into the hands of those undemocratic suppliers whose political strategy is to split and weaken the eu. the commission should provide not only political and legal but also financial assistance to companies which are engaged in efforts to diversify our energy supplies. to really advance towards genuine energy solidarity, the member states should start to inform each other and the commission on their agreements with third partners.
mr president, i voted against the resolution concerning lithuania because i found this resolution to be a premature and unbalanced reaction to a law that has not yet even entered into force, let alone in its original wording. it is true that human rights fall within the competence of the union. however, in this case the union comes very close to infringing the principle of sovereignty of a member state, and that is why i have opposed this resolution, also bearing in mind that it would have a negative result on the irish referendum as a bad example of how the sovereignty of the member states could be treated.
mr president, the human rights situation in russia has changed for the worse. we now call on the russian authorities to do everything in their power to ensure the protection of human rights defenders. we know that the crucial thing that is lacking is a will to do that ‘everything’. it can be done, as the kremlin exercises a decisive influence on russia’s power structures and judiciary. because of this, the failure of the russian judiciary to protect human rights defenders makes one assume the complicity of the regime in these crimes. our message today should be addressed to the eu governments and the commission. as long as the kremlin assumes that worries about the fate of human rights defenders remain on the level of declarations, with no consequences on economic relations, mr putin and mr medvedev can conclude that the eu has not been able to draw lessons from the blatant murder of anna politkovskaya.
mr. president, i have to go. i was in ireland last week, supporting my irish labour party friends. i am glad that there was a strong yes, because this is a very necessary decision for both ireland and the european union. as a farmer, i am particularly pleased that irish farmers have supported the agreement this time since the beginning of the referendum campaign. this was the right decision, because the entry into force of the agreement will also give the european parliament and the council equal say on agricultural matters, including the co-decision procedure on the common agricultural policy, which is certainly good news for european farmers.
mr president, in my opinion, freedom of the press in a country can only be properly assessed by considering every aspect of the question. this should include a thorough analysis of the markets, including the advertising markets, and of the habits of the population, like the average time spent watching tv, distribution of the printed press and levels of literacy, etc. we would notice certain spectacular differences in those factors in italy compared to many other member states. as long as these outstanding differences, for example concentration of media ownership and party political power over the public media, are not openly discussed, the italian pattern will insidiously convince many people. i would like to compare it to a virus – not dangerous enough to kill the bearer, but definitely weakening him and with the potential to infect others. members of the european parliament present should know that in estonia one centre-left party has recklessly followed the current italian model by concentrating all public and private resources under the party’s command and spreading unilateral messages all over the capital city of tallinn. i would have nothing against a european discussion on that issue here as well. that is why, unlike the ppe group, i believe it is time to discuss the freedom of the press and to adopt a resolution. the resulting resolution should not be considered some kind of settling of scores between political parties in one or other member state but rather should be an opportunity to promote the values on which our union is based.
that is an interesting question. it takes historical research: have the centre-left governments done anything about it? in my speech i pointed out that the centre-left party is doing the same as mr berlusconi is doing in italy, so the debate is about europe, about freedom of speech and about threats to freedom of speech from either side – left or right. that is my opinion.
madam president! i voted for this resolution. the global financial and economic crisis has affected all countries, but it has been particularly devastating for the poorest. the crisis has negatively affected all their sources of funding and they cannot maintain their hard-won achievements without external support. the crisis has put at risk the achievement of the millennium development goals for 2015. i therefore support the plan to mobilise €8.8 billion earlier than planned for budget support for development and for agricultural finance for emergency measures and the proposal to allocate €500 million for social expenditure support. in that resolution, it did not support the articles on the tobin tax.
the creation of the schengen area in the late 1980s and early 1990s was one of the greatest achievements in european history. the provisions of the schengen acquis have been part of the framework of the european union since the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam in 1999. the evaluation mechanism, which must ensure the transparent, efficient and consistent implementation of the schengen acquis and reflect any changes in the legal situation that have occurred since the integration of the schengen acquis into the eu framework, is an important element in the respect of the application of the provisions of the schengen acquis which are part of eu law. i agree with the rapporteur that the proposals made today in the draft regulation are limited to adopting some of the general suggestions for recent improvements to the current schengen evaluation mechanism. the only new idea in the whole draft regulation is the provision for the possibility of making unannounced visits, which is very welcome. i cannot accept, however, that the role currently played by the council is being transferred entirely to the commission, and this proposal leaves very limited possibilities for cooperation with the member states and excludes the european parliament from the whole process. it should be borne in mind that this is an area of freedom, security and justice, and the responsibility for maintaining and developing this area lies not only with the commission as the body responsible for monitoring the implementation of the treaties, but also with the member states, which remain responsible for the security of their external borders, and with the european parliament, which represents the citizens of the european union.
mr. president, i have to go. ambitious climate action would help to address the current economic crisis through the creation of new jobs and increased economic activity. the international energy agency also considers the copenhagen agreement to be necessary to redirect investment delayed by the crisis to investments in the environmentally sound energy sector. i also see opportunities here for my home country, estonia. we need a comprehensive energy saving programme and an ambitious and long-term approach to renewable energy. but it should not stop there. we should rethink our transport and logistics arrangements, adopt environmentally friendly building materials and technologies, reduce the amount of materials and chemicals used by industry, reorganise packaging in retail and develop organic farming. these and many other solutions will be important sectors for growth in the future. many of the new solutions require the efforts of our scientists, some just a more creative approach on our own.
mr president, with the lisbon treaty about to enter into force, this is a historic moment to concentrate first of all on europe’s common future and common good. i am afraid that it is not the best opportunity to use these last moments to advance national interest, playing on the nerves of other partners. global challenges to europe cannot be solved without efficient common institutions and common policies. however, today’s europe needs more than ever the far-sightedness, moral commitment and perception of common european values that inspired our founding fathers to break the vicious circle of history and national egoisms. that is why we need for europe’s progress and credibility in the world not necessarily good conductors of affairs but real statesmen, strong democratic leaders having a vision and authority to bring about a change also in europe. therefore we need a clear commitment to, and practical implementation of, european common institutions. we need not only a common foreign and security policy, with an external service, but also a common energy policy. the european council will also approve the baltic sea strategy. i would like to thank the commission and the swedish presidency once again for taking it on board. now the task of the council is to implement it without losing time. i hope that the baltic sea strategy will get the attention it deserves, also from the spanish and belgian presidencies. i support the idea of minister malmström that the baltic sea strategy can be seen as a model pilot project for other macroregions of europe. nevertheless, no eu strategy will be taken seriously without having sufficient resources for its implementation. the existing budget line needs some money and some credibility.
there are many ways to destroy media pluralism and feed the population with unbalanced information, to block the diversity of opinions. monopolizing the media economically through ownership is one way, but not the only way. a monopoly on information can also be achieved, for example, by filling the posts of the public media's governing bodies with members of one party, that is, members of the ruling party, and blocking other opinions. there are other examples, and we heard them in this chamber during the debate on this subject. i'm sure those were facts. all this is a sign that if we want to be democratic, we need european rules, we need a directive to protect media pluralism. that is why i supported the resolution by the alde, socialist and green group which just made this proposal.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a pleasure and a pleasure to work with many wonderful people. i want to congratulate mr. brock and the many others who contributed. i would now like to quote mr barroso, who said this morning: 'institutions are not enough, we need a lot of political will.' indeed, institutional creation is not possible without political motives. our political will must be at the forefront of the creation of a new institution at all times, to avoid a situation where we simply create another institution. the aim is to create a truly european, and in practice a sui generis, organisation serving the common interests of all european citizens. if we want to avoid typical duplication and possible waste of resources, we must guarantee that the allocation and use of budgetary resources is under the control of the european parliament. the report sets out a broad set of principles to be communicated to the european council, which would help us to appoint the high representative and put a plan in place. after this plan, we'll all be in a better position to put our political will to work. since everyone is aware of the green initiatives - such as the concept of complacency, the full implementation of the charter of fundamental rights and, of course, the issue of gender equality - i will not repeat them today, but i promise to return to these topics at an appropriate time. however, i think it would be very smart for the council to consider appointing a female high representative, because we all know that the president of the commission is not a woman, and in fact no woman has ever been appointed to lead europe before, and so it might be a good idea to consider this aspect when we are creating a new european institution. in working on the report, i've noticed a certain negative attitude from some circles. it has been suggested that the european parliament has no role to play here and that this report is simply an attempt to make itself more important. my response to this attitude has been that parliament is important and must be treated as such. our report on the european external action service provides a very good opportunity to bring this fact to light. i therefore call on everyone to support the adoption of the report, despite the fact that it does not contain all the corrections and wishes. the main thing now is to get the report approved.
in writing. – as the lisbon treaty is about to enter into force, the rapid progress in the transatlantic relationship between the two biggest democratic and economic entities will have an increased importance. both the eu and the us continue to be key actors in international trade and providers of stability. the european parliament has been a leading force in advancing transatlantic cooperation, having proposed in its resolutions the creation of a transatlantic free market, as well as establishing new structures for closer political and interparliamentary relations. the transatlantic economic council has done good work so far. i hope that in the near future we shall be able to work out solutions to overcome the regulatory barriers between the eu and the us. the role of legislators in this relationship will be important. members of the european parliament are willing and ready to fully contribute to tec processes. we should encourage the us congress to fully commit itself to a routine transatlantic legislators’ dialogue and thus also to an active participation in the tec. i would like to ask the commission and the council how the european parliament’s resolutions have been followed up and at the same time to encourage both institutions to vigorously work towards achieving a transatlantic free market area.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the alde group, i would first like to congratulate the authors of the report. the report is of the utmost importance, if only in the sense that it refutes the myth that has been circulating for over a year - the myth spread by the russian federation - that georgia started the war. at the same time, the report is balanced and criticizes both sides in the conflict, if only for their failure to prevent it. the importance of the report is also undoubtedly that it very clearly points out that the russian federation - just before the conflict began - conducted training on the territory of south ossetia, provided south ossetia with military equipment and other military equipment. another important point in this report is certainly the issue of passporting, which the russian federation has been carrying out for many years in both abkhazia and south ossetia, and thereby causing a conflict with international law, not to mention the undermining of good neighbourly relations. but the report also says very clearly that this passporting did not make people living in south ossetia or abkhazia citizens of the russian federation, but de jure they are still citizens of georgia and therefore the claim of the russian federation that they were protecting or went to protect their citizens in south ossetia is certainly not true. another important point in the report is certainly that it speaks very clearly about ethnic cleansing in the georgian villages in the territory of south ossetia. this is a very important moment. unfortunately, the report does not address the ethnic cleansing that the russian federation has carried out in abkhazia since georgia's independence in 1991, forcing nearly a quarter of a million georgians to leave their homeland. and finally, madam president, i would like to say that the most important and most important of course is the reference in the report to the need to respect georgia's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. the question for us today is how to do this effectively, and as we are about to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, i would like to ask, colleagues, when can we celebrate the day when abkhazia and south ossetia can rejoin georgia?
madam president, there is one conclusion to draw from the conflict, which is that the international community has for far too long and too readily agreed to the existence of so-called frozen conflicts which, as my colleague, mr kasoulides, has put it, equals appeasement. the central fact of this conflict is that georgia did not invade russian territory, whereas russia invaded georgian territory with massive military force and was about to occupy its capital. it was an unprecedented breach of international law and undermines the credibility of russia as a reliable partner. as international reaction to this invasion has remained ambiguous, russia can feel itself a winner, which means that there is a likelihood of similar aggressions, for example in the crimea or even in the baltic sea area. therefore, we need a clear commitment from the eu to be present in georgia and to guarantee its free choice and territorial integrity. it will be of utmost importance to have a presence there.
author. − mr president, this situation is rooted in a very special clerical dictatorship, which is notorious for its indiscriminate suppression of human rights and civil liberties. the situation has even worsened since the june elections. arrests, torture and executions of minors and women have increased. in fact, iran has the highest number of executions in the world after china. the latest information, which is not reflected in the draft resolution, is that yesterday, iran’s regime hanged five prisoners in tehran’s evin prison, including soheila ghadiri, a 28-year-old woman. she is the fourth woman to be hanged by the regime in the past month. such barbaric sentences have nothing to do with crimes allegedly committed by the prisoners but are rather an effort to intensify the atmosphere of terror in the country, especially among women and young people, who have displayed their resolve to establish democracy and oppose the elections.
mr president, i would like to make three observations. with the lisbon treaty in force, the eu needs, more than ever, efficient common foreign security and energy policies which are based on solidarity. only such policies can prevent schröder-putin deals from ever being repeated. secondly, we need to realise how important it is in the new situation to have a continuously strong commission that can take responsibility for the implementation of the lisbon treaty. thirdly, regarding the new top posts, we first of all need courage to advance and to support not portfolios but personalities, personalities that have long-term vision and commitment to the continuity of european values. so, in order to address enormous new challenges, the eu once again needs two european statesmen in the adenauer, schuman or de gasperi mould. we should look for them without prejudice. these statesmen can also be found in the new member states, which certainly should be represented in the future troika. václav havel told us today that europe is a homeland of our homelands. based upon this understanding, i think we can succeed in the implementation of the lisbon treaty.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, honourable member of the council, honourable member of the commission! speaking on behalf of the alde group, i would certainly like to stress the importance of good neighbourly and mutually beneficial relations between the european union and russia. but surely such a relationship requires goodwill on both sides. that was also something that president havel referred to in his speech this afternoon. colleagues, we all know that russia has always appreciated a partner who is a strong partner. and today's preparations for the european union summit next week actually show that we can speak with one voice if we want to. and that is very important - as is shown by the resolution we have prepared - and i am pleased to hear that from the council and the commission. and the ratification of the treaty of lisbon will, of course, provide a larger and broader basis for this. now, looking at russia, russia will have a very good opportunity next week to show its sincere desire to cooperate with us, whether in areas such as energy security or the preparation of a new framework agreement between the european union and russia or, for example, russian behaviour or thinking towards the wto. true, there are conflicting opinions now: president medvedev and prime minister putin have given different signals. i very much hope that next week the european union will have a clear picture of the direction russia is taking towards the wto. and certainly the european union - i think - must support russia in its move to the wto. but the very important issue that russia can demonstrate to work with us is certainly climate change cooperation and agreement. it is a very concrete thing, it will happen very quickly, already in december at the copenhagen summit, and this is really the place where we could sum up and see whether this cooperation between the european union and russia is then possible or not. ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk lately about the need for much more pragmatic relations between the european union and russia, and i have already heard questions about whether the european union is ignoring human rights, fundamental values and democracy. i think that we cannot do that under any circumstances, because if we did, we would first of all devalue ourselves and the european union as a whole. and the promotion of human rights is not to bully, corner or teach russia in any way, but the promotion of human rights is primarily in the interests of the people living in russia, it is in the interests of simple and ordinary citizens. and the clouds of human rights concern are actually gathering again in moscow, because - as you heard yesterday - the constitutional court discussed the possible reintroduction of the death penalty next year, and for liberals, this is certainly a very tough topic. i cannot go into more detail here, but i am sure that the frozen conflicts which are about to be raised must be discussed.
article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights provides that 'everyone has the right to have his or her affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions of the union'. after reading the european ombudsman's 2008 activity report, we regret that we still have to acknowledge today that the most common type of maladministration in complaints against eu institutions is lack of transparency (36% of all investigations). i am also concerned that, although the european parliament already approved the ombudsman's good administration rules in its resolution in 2001, the other institutions of the union have not yet fully complied with the call made by parliament. i fully support the rapporteur's proposal that administrative irregularities should continue to be interpreted more broadly to cover, in addition to unlawful administrative acts and breaches of binding rules and principles, cases where administrative authorities have been lax, have acted in a non-transparent manner or have breached other principles of good administration. for my part, i also call on the eu institutions and the future ombudsman to increase the transparency of eu decision-making processes and administrative structures by implementing the rules of good administration to reduce administrative burdens in the eu.
mr president, the eu’s is the only international mission to monitor the implementation of the agreements of last august and september between russia and georgia. mrs ashton should now make it perfectly clear to the russian side that they should guarantee the eu mission access to the separatist georgian territories without any further delay. today the french mistral-type helicopter carrier arrived in st petersburg; the plan to sell this modern warship to russia is the equivalent of rewarding the kremlin for its invasion of georgia last year. in the words of the commander of the russian navy, this type of ship would have enabled the russian navy, in august 2008, to carry out its mission in 40 minutes instead of 26 hours. in that case president sarkozy would have had no time to prevent mr putin occupying the georgian capital. providing the russian navy with the newest nato technology means taking responsibility for encouraging kremlin hawks to implement their military exercise plans from last september.
in writing. the main objective of the amendments to the framework directive on electronic communications networks and services is to strengthen the rights of telephone and internet users and to increase competition between telecommunications companies. electronic communications are now governed by rules adopted seven years ago. the area has since developed rapidly. as a lawyer, i consider that the amendment tabled by parliament at the last moment, which required national regulatory authorities to promote the interests of the citizens of the european union by providing that no restriction on the fundamental rights and freedoms of end-users may be imposed without a prior decision of the court, exceeded the powers conferred on it by the treaty. i am pleased that the discussions in the conciliation committee have resulted in the best way of ensuring the root-line accuracy of the text and ensuring the protection of all users and respect for the legal space of the member states. the decision will allow us to finally approve the amendments to the framework directive on electronic communications networks and services.
in writing. – i want to voice our dissatisfaction with the so-called simplified procedure for the georgia and armenia macro-financial aid files. whereas the parliament has in the past been quick in dealing with mfa files, the commission and council are slow. simplified procedure almost excludes parliament. could you please explain to us the reasons why the commission – which was aware that the first payment was already due before 2009 – is late? it has been argued in the green group that we have to ensure that mfa is not going to be used for military purposes and i desire that as well. however, at the same time, the french aircraft carrier enters the harbour of st petersburg in order to seal the biggest arms trade with russia by an eu member state. it is more than evident that russia is the main contributor to the reason why georgia is in dire need of financial assistance. and to ask one side of the conflict to reduce its weaponry and, with the other hand, to sell ultra-modern technology to the other side, will not only destabilise the strategic situation in the black sea region, but will also have serious consequences in the baltic region.
mr president, this is a good beginning for advent time – looking forward to the lisbon treaty coming into force. however, it is not just god’s gift. we need to make a determined effort to gain added value for our european project. first and foremost, the way is now open for common european policies. there are no longer any formal excuses to abstain from them. it is now up to the council to start vigorous common foreign security and energy policies that could become truly credible for our partners. one of the most pressing tasks will be completion of the single energy market, developing all-european energy-supply networks and storage facilities, as well as implementing an energy solidarity clause. the second problem arises from the economic crisis. in fact the countries outside the eurozone have suffered the most from the dramatic decrease in investments and rising unemployment. they also have become more vulnerable due to competitive disadvantage if compared to the eurozone members. therefore, temporary measures by the eu, like additional lending facilities to support smes and energy and infrastructure projects are clearly needed. furthermore, better access to the european funds could be facilitated by temporarily reducing the national cofinancing requirements. as you know, president, my country, estonia, is making determined efforts to join the eurozone by 2011. estonia has one of the lowest foreign debt rates and has succeeded in bringing the budgetary deficit under control. the recent acknowledgement of estonia’s efforts by the oecd and commissioner almunia are encouraging signs that we are on the right path.
mr. president, i have to go. first, i'd like to talk about the high-ranking officials mentioned last week. some of the speakers have criticised the president and the high representative for what i consider to be totally inappropriate. no one is ever satisfied, but personally i see the appointment of both representatives as a positive development, as a balance has been struck between the interests of all: small countries big countries, men women, different political parties. perhaps the only thing that has left me crippled personally is that some representative from the new member states did not get one of these seats, but perhaps next time it will be possible. in any case, i would like to thank all the candidates from my region, in particular president toomas hendrik ilvest of estonia and former president vaira vīķe-freiberga of latvia. but i think we should move on to the real thing and stop dealing with people. the second important point i would like to make is to deal with the economic crisis, which i consider to be the most important issue of this council. european citizens expect to be dealt with the problems of unemployment, a financial surveillance package. the new commission's structure and capacity to act are of great importance here. this is also true for my home country, estonia, because our clearest objective is to become a full member of the euro area in order to achieve new economic growth, and we are very close to achieving this, as we are likely to meet the maastricht criteria. - thank you. - thank you.
in the last nine years, 77 airlines have gone bankrupt. it's not one, two or three, and it's not just yesterday. for the last nine years, i repeat. as a result, thousands of passengers have been stranded in an unfamiliar airport. they have not received compensation, or at least not timely compensation, for the money spent. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution and i agree that the aviation sector must also be regulated by the vacuum in our legal space that exists today. i also support the specific deadline set out in the resolution. it is 1 july 2010, just in time for the european commission to come forward with its concrete, realistic proposals to solve this problem, so that in the future air passengers' rights will also be protected by air transport ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the european union set itself the objective of strengthening the community's economy with the lisbon agenda. it is therefore also important to improve its competitiveness. however, it is important that the market is fairly competitive. this means that clear rules would work for all producers, exporters and importers. i supported the motion for a resolution because the obligation to indicate the country of origin of goods imported into the european union from third countries is the only way to achieve maximum transparency, to provide the consumer with relevant information and to ensure the consistency of international trade rules. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. – i would like to make three observations. first, i am glad that foreign minister carl bildt pointed out the most important message of albertini resolution – that the eu remains strongly committed to the enlargement policy and views it as one of the most successful eu policies. this is very much due to the excellent work of commissioner rehn. the second important message is that the rule of law is seen as a key principle of democratic progress and one of the main conditions for further accessions. we should also remain clear about the relevance of the copenhagen criteria. the third observation: i strongly suggest that the opening of the accession negotiations with macedonia be decided by the december european council in accordance with the commission’s recommendation.
in writing. − i voted for amendment 4. i very much believe that we have to underline that by non-muslims we first and foremost mean the christians, therefore a mention of christians explicitly next to other religious communities is needed. christians are still persecuted in turkey and it remains one of our biggest concerns. christians and their communities are still not able to exercise their belief freely as they should be in a democratic state. i am convinced that turkey will be ready for eu accession at the moment when it becomes as easy to raise a christian church in turkey as it is to raise a mosque in brussels.
in writing. − the motion for a resolution on smoke-free environments proposed, as one major amendment, a pan-european ban on smoking in public institutions and premises. the resolution aimed to instruct the commission to prepare the necessary legislation to enter into force in 2011. although many mps, including myself, voted in favour of banning smoking in public places (especially in workplaces), the people's party, unfortunately, took the opposite view. the majority of meps did not consider the protection of the health of all european citizens, especially those who are not smokers themselves but are forced to inhale smoke in public places and thus harm their health. i hope that this issue will not be forgotten and will soon be back on the agenda, as many member states have not yet introduced a ban on smoking in public places, although they have had the opportunity to do so.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, there is an alarming trend in today’s latin america to consolidate populist regimes by extending the mandate of current presidents – preferably for eternity. this was hitler’s way to power. lenin’s was that of indifference, but the results were just the same. these presidents with extended powers have not been able or willing to improve the quality of life of their subjects. cuba is a murky and painful example of how lives of normal people have been mutilated and spoiled for decades. in nicaragua we can see a warning example that such kinds of rulers do not change. they return to power only to misuse it once again. it is, therefore, our task now to condemn strongly these violations of the nicaraguan constitution and to link this issue with much more efficient control over the use of funds given to nicaragua for development. it is very disappointing that the organisation of american states has not reacted to these flagrant violations of the constitution by one of its member states.
mr. president, i have to go. i want to talk about a very practical but extremely important issue for my home country, estonia. until a few years ago, the three baltic states - estonia, latvia and lithuania - had virtually no rail links with europe. the existing infrastructure was in poor condition and was used to a minimum. to date, positive developments have taken place both in the renovation of the existing infrastructure and in the studies for the construction of a railway line that meets european standards. rail baltica that is how we know this project it is crucial for the implementation of the rail baltica project that both the european parliament and the european commission give significant support to the project, despite the fact that the population of this region is not the largest and the financial situation of the baltic states is difficult. this project is not only important for the achievement of a normal railway connection, but also has a very significant regional and social impact for all three countries. estonia, latvia and lithuania need a rail link to europe for both economic reasons and environmental sustainability, as rail transport allows for the transport of larger volumes of goods with less pollution. at the moment, the main connection is via baltica... (the chairman interrupted the speaker.)
mr. chairman of the board! mr commissioner, my dear colleagues! the commission has proposed the creation of a new financial instrument the microfinance facility. the initiative is good and important, but the fact that the funds are to be taken from the progress programme which is already in operation is not going to do it. i would remind the council and the commission that the people have not chosen us to be a haunted house. at the end of 2006, when we adopted progress in this very hall, member states also set targets and took action. the programme has been well implemented and there is no reason to believe that this will not continue until the end of the programme in 2013. the programme was and is targeted at the most disadvantaged groups of people and has helped them. today, the economic crisis is escalating into a social crisis. unemployment is increasing month by month and progress measures have not lost their relevance. however, the commission must express the wish to reduce the funding of the measure already in force. this is an irresponsible approach, an unacceptable approach. i am sure that we cannot approve a microcredit fund in this room until it is clear where the money for this measure will come from, until it is clear that the funds will be found elsewhere than in the most vulnerable planning.
in writing. the economic recovery plan approved by the european council in march 2009 provides for €5 billion of unused eu budget resources in 2009 and 2010 to invest in energy interconnection and broadband development projects. i am pleased to note that, as regards the financing of the second year (2010) of the european recovery plan, the conciliation committee has reached a result, through the revision of the financial framework 2007-13 and the reallocation of resources, which will secure funding of eur 2.4 billion next year and will allow the objectives set out in the recovery plan to be achieved. as the revision of the financial framework in connection with the european economic recovery plan leaves very little to cover unexpected financial needs in 2010, i agree with the rapporteur that the current mff does not meet the financial needs of the european union and that the european commission should immediately submit a proposal for a mid-term review of the current mff.
chairman of the sitting, madam commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! a while ago, when we were talking about georgia, i recalled that it is right on the eve of the anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall that we should raise the question of when we could celebrate the day when south ossetia and abkhazia could rejoin their motherland, georgia. today we have no answer to that question, although in all our documents, whether in the european parliament or in other institutions, we emphasise the importance of georgia's territorial integrity in the context of international law, and that is what we are all standing for here today. last week in brussels, a very good debate took place with the representative of the presidency, mr carl bildt, who called georgia a litmus test for the european union. it is precisely in this key that we can one day stand up to the end for the restoration of georgia's territorial integrity and for all human rights and the rights of refugees to be treated in the way that international law requires. i agree with all the colleagues who have mentioned the poor state of human rights here, but that cannot be accepted. but i want to close with a prayer. last week i also met with the deputy prime minister of georgia, giorgi baramidze, whose big request was that please, please, please the european union take action also in preventive diplomacy to prevent possible further escalations of conflicts.
mr president, i can only agree with the statement that georgia’s best response to russian aggression must be more democratic reforms. at the same time, the eu has its own responsibility because, as has rightly been said, eu-georgia relations will become a test case for the success of the eastern partnership and the eu’s role in the region. considering the importance of georgia, i wonder whether georgia was discussed during the recent eu-russia summit, because russia is not implementing the six-point agreement and the eu mission is in the embarrassing situation of not being allowed into the separatist territories. the eu should take a stronger position on this case. commissioner, you mentioned eur 46 million in aid. i would just like to ask whether that aid will reach georgia this year. what will be the timetable?
mr. president, i have to go. first of all, a sincere acknowledgement to mr almunia for the very efficient work he has done so far. all the countries of the european union have many common problems, but each country also has its own monetary policy and its own specific problems, and everyone must certainly be self-critical here. the argument that only the new eu member states are particularly hard hit by the crisis is not entirely true. if you look at the countries where banks have needed financial support, they are mainly the old member states, not the new ones. fiscal problems are also greater in the euro area than outside. however, it is clear that cross-border banking has not created any additional risks. the situation is just the opposite. banks operating in different countries have been more resilient and have been able to stabilise the situation in many host partner countries. the banks that are in trouble are banks that have simply made bad business decisions, whether it's the royal bank of scotland or the bank of england.
mr president, i would like to join the previous speaker in thanking commissioner almunia. he has a clear view on the differences in different countries in central and eastern europe and the current state of their economic and financial situation. the commissioner mentioned estonia. i come from estonia, and it has not been an easy job to fulfil our aspirations of joining the eurozone, but the one thing i think we might share with the other countries around is self-responsibility. i have not heard the word ‘self-responsibility’ in this assembly in this debate so far; there is only the word ‘solidarity’. how can we expect solidarity if we have big world competitors like china and india racing ahead? i think in the european union we should be much more pragmatic and think what our national governments are responsible for. it is difficult in these times to make cuts. in estonia it has been very difficult to cut expenditure in state government, yet we have been doing this for years. in the good years – in the booming years – we were able to make reserves, and nobody else – only the member states’ governments – is responsible for that.
mr. president, i have to go. i would like to draw particular attention to the three baltic states, whose situation is perhaps the most difficult in the region. some examples: estonia's economic decline is over 15%, while the eu average is -4.1%. no other european country, apart from the three baltic states, has experienced a recession of more than 10%. in all three baltic states, unemployment has already risen to over 15%. i very much hope that the alde proposals for the recovery of the baltic economies and the improvement of the financial situation will receive very specific attention and a response from the commission. estonia has had to cut its budget three times in the last year and reduce public sector spending, and further cuts will worsen the already difficult social situation considerably. i very much hope that estonia will join the euro area on 1 january 2011 to also lay the foundations for economic recovery and overcoming financial difficulties.
in writing. – i congratulate the commission for the efforts they have made to help european economies. the knowledge that the eu provides measures for those most in need reaffirms and ensures that we will all come out of this economic crisis stronger than before. i would like to emphasise the importance of losing all currently existing barriers on economy, trade and free movement on the labour market. completing the integration of the european single market must be the main target in the short term. only this helps us effectively stand against any future crisis. one of strongest incentives the eu has is being part of the eurozone. the euro is an important incentive for investments and economic growth, reducing vulnerability. i truly hope that my own country, estonia, will succeed in fulfilling the criteria necessary for joining the eurozone. estonia has one of the lowest foreign debts in europe and has managed to put aside enough reserves during economic growth to be able now to face the crisis with its own means. furthermore, i am convinced that the current means from european funds and the prospects for joining the eurozone soon will allow us to reduce unemployment efficiently next year.
the president! first of all, i would like to thank the president for the adoption of the baltic sea strategy, which is certainly very important for my country. but i would like to dwell on three points that are related to the financial theme. firstly, i welcome the efforts being made to organise pan-european financial supervision and i call on the european parliament to give it its full support. secondly, the european union and its member states have implemented a large number of exceptional measures to manage the crisis, which are very positive. the economy is already stabilizing. however, i agree with the council that the situation is not yet sufficiently certain to abandon the aid measures. the conclusion of the crisis for me is certainly that banks are needed and the service they provide is needed. so there's no need to go too far in punishing them, but the basis of the action should be in the real economy, not the virtual interbank market, which was the main cause of the last crisis. at the same time, the taxation of bank bonuses should be considered, which has become an issue in estonia. thirdly, i also support the call for the international monetary fund to consider introducing a global financial transaction tax, the so-called tobin tax, to give back to society the money of the boom years. i support the need to renew the economic social contract between financial institutions and the society they serve, and to ensure that the public benefits from good times and is protected from dangers.
madam president! the decision to mobilise the flexibility instrument demonstrates the success of the institutional cooperation and reaffirms the european institutions' view that financing the second phase of the european economic recovery plan is essential. another positive aspect of this resolution was that we were able to find the missing part of the economic recovery plan for energy projects, and later confirmed this in the budget. i voted for the resolution.
i also supported the adoption of this report because the outcome of the conciliation committee - which is not a very simple and quick process - was positive, it was the implementation of the plan for the recovery of the european economy, of certain objectives of that plan. it was also positive that in the subsequent budget vote we supported the previous decision by allocating 2.4 billion for the above-mentioned purposes. i also supported the report.
author. − mr president, at the beginning of this year, the european union made a statement on freedom and media in azerbaijan. i regret the fact that, after concern on media freedom was expressed during the regular meeting with azerbaijani parliamentarians, there has been no feedback. the european parliament therefore has to take a stand. this is, by the way, going to be our last resolution adopted in 2009. the main concern of the epp group, and i am happy that all factions share the same concern, is the deterioration of media freedom in that country. the widespread practice of harassment, persecution and conviction of opposition journalists is alarming. we call on azerbaijani authorities to release the journalists in jail without further delay. this also concerns two young bloggers. the second problem is a recent decision by azerbaijani authorities to cancel the fm radio licences of several international radio stations like radio free europe, voice of america, bbc world service and others, depriving listeners in this country of valuable and independent sources of information. here i ask colleagues to agree to an oral amendment to paragraph 7 of the resolution: namely, not only to voice regret at the situation, but also to urge the azerbaijani government to cancel its decision and renew fm licences for the radio stations mentioned. variety, freedom and independence of information are key to a robust civil society, as sergei kovalev told us yesterday in this chamber. this applies fully to the eu’s relations with azerbaijan too.
