in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european economic and monetary union came into being on 1 january 1999, with the 11 eu member states adopting the single currency. the euro turned 10 on 1 january 2009. at the same time, slovakia became the 16th euro area country. as jean-claude juncker said in his speech to parliament, the euro is precisely the 'anchor of stability'. this has been painfully noted by the countries outside the euro area. despite the ten-year anniversary of the euro being overshadowed by concerns about the possibility of a deepening recession, i am confident in the euro area's ability to emerge from the crisis. however, this will require considerable efforts on the part of the union. the latest estimates show that the impact of the agreed recovery package is well below the planned 1.5% of the region's gdp. current estimates put the effect at around 0.6%. further clarification is necessary. the euro has been an undeniable success, but without continuous work it would not have succeeded. the european role in financial market supervision must now be strengthened. the basic principles and criteria of economic and monetary union must be respected.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the mcguinness report, but i would like to stress the following points in particular. we are facing the first acute global food crisis since the 1970s. this crisis actually began before the current global economic crisis, when world prices of corn and wheat skyrocketed in a short time. the economic crisis has taken the food crisis off the headlines, but unfortunately the latter has not disappeared. it is disconsolating that even before the current food crisis, some one billion people worldwide suffered from chronic hunger and malnutrition. food security - the availability of sufficient, safe and nutritious food - must finally be made a political priority, both here and elsewhere. it cannot be that at the same time as world hunger is increasing and food prices are rising rapidly, we in europe are being forced to reduce agriculture on the most extraordinary grounds. the right to engage in profitable farming must continue in finland, as in other member states. the food industry is a major employer, employing over four million people in europe. the entire food chain is estimated to employ some 300 000 people in finland, representing about 13% of the total labour force. the need to defend these jobs in these times of food and economic crisis is undeniable.
in writing. - mr president, i consider the reports on pesticides and plant protection products which have now been adopted to be the best achievable, realistic, results. although at the last minute some of my colleagues tabled amendments in plenary which they felt would have ensured that the legislation was based on stronger scientific evidence, while allowing for derogations for individual member states, it was clear to the majority that the result of the negotiations between parliament and the council should not be breached, even if the amendments were acceptable. the report on the placing of plant protection products on the market in particular aroused passion; the parliament reflected both divergent national interests and policies and the lack of unanimity in the council. the discussion was heated within our group. nevertheless, feedback from industry shows that the legislation is coherent and enables the eu-wide objectives set for it to improve and protect the state of the environment and public health.
in writing. mr president, i agree with the report to be voted on thursday on a number of points. the council must ensure that all its discussions, documents and information are made public. i also support the report's proposal that parliament's own website should in future provide more information on the activities and attendance of members.
in writing. - the different approaches adopted by the member states on so-called ethical issues have given rise to the very diverse debate that could have been foreseen in our political groups, and in our own in particular. we have agreed to disagree, that is a statement that must be accepted as a european asset. in many ways, i value the basic principles of my own group. however, with reference to paragraph 61, i would like to say that i consider it problematic if there is simultaneous opposition to both awareness of the right to reproductive and sexual health - which is generally a euphemism for the right to abortion - and to the mention of making contraceptive methods more accessible in order to avoid unwanted pregnancies and abortions. i see in this simultaneous resistance a gap in realism that can lead to unintended consequences. i say this with all due respect and thank all the parties for the fruitful exchange of views.
in writing. mr president,it is undeniable that the civilian population of gaza and southern israel has been deprived of their right to a life of dignity. a news agency reported a story about two children who were about to cross a road in gaza. kids don't look to the right or left to check for road safety. they look up, afraid of the sky. there are two people who are absolutely responsible for the enormous humanitarian crisis in gaza. the irresponsible actions of hamas in the palestinian territories, its cowardly hiding among the civilian population and its provocative rocket attacks are proof of the intolerability of the present palestinian regime. the disproportionate israeli attack on an already fragile and desperate palestinian territory is yet another indictment of the indifference to international humanitarian obligations. we must demand an end to this madness, an immediate and permanent ceasefire. israel should be allowed to provide humanitarian aid to gaza in the first instance, and improving its living conditions is also one of the ways to peace in the long term. the quartet in the middle east needs a group movement in which the new us administration can also show the way. egypt has a special responsibility for border issues and its mediation role with the union has been promising. world history shows that the search for peace is eventually rewarded. we must not give up, or adapt, or get used to the idea of an unresolvable conflict, for there is no such thing. according to nobel peace prize winner ahtisaari, peace is a matter of will. this will can be encouraged and pressured by the international community, but it and lasting peace can only be found between the parties. the commissioner, take a message from europe: people of the holy land, want peace.
in writing. we are contemporaries witnessing the mass murder of civilians by israeli soldiers in gaza. we are turning a blind eye, or more precisely, many right-wing representatives are turning a blind eye to what is happening. it could not happen without the political right-wing elite in the us and the eu turning a blind eye. those who turn a blind eye to the killing of civilians are also arming those who kill them. it is time to raise the issue of severing diplomatic relations with genocidal and ethnic cleansing groups.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council, the commission has taken on the role of intermediary in the gas dispute between russia and ukraine and has done its best to launch deliveries. it has not been my custom to thank the commission, but on behalf of my group i would like to thank it. it has acted not as a judge but as a doctor, not as a surgeon, but as a psychiatrist. there's a need for that now. the rest of europe is freezing, while in ukraine, the president and prime minister are fighting for power. in these circumstances, the proposal yesterday by the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, mr jacek saryusz-wolski, that the eu should introduce sanctions to secure the flow of gas is irresponsible. should we decide that the eu should start boycotting russian gas? poland could set an example for others in this respect by refusing russian gas. our group hopes that the commission will continue to actively mediate in order to achieve reconciliation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament will shortly be voting on the third package of measures on the electricity and gas markets. we have just adopted the energy and climate package, but now, in the face of the crisis, we should have a wider energy conference with our partners. we have the political will to do so and we have the need to cooperate. i also support the idea of a working party on article 175 which would report to this parliament in may, for example. the russian and ukrainian delegations should also be included. the situation is serious, as has been said: millions of people are freezing and factories are closing. by blocking the gas from entering the eu, ukraine has dragged us into a problem. russia did the same when it cut off its share of eu gas. however, gas flows through other transit countries. thanks to the union's rapid action, thank you, commissioner the readers of the meters are at the control points. the russian gas has evidently started to flow into the ukrainian grid, but it is still not flowing into the union. we have a situation. both the eu and russia are seeking to build energy transmission pipelines to new regions eu outside russia and russia outside the former soviet republics. plumbing people have jobs. however, i would not dare to sanction the parties to the dispute, and i do not think sanctions are wise. i doubt it's effective because they might hit us more than the target species. i would, however, consider it particularly important to include the energy charter in the future pca. one possibility would also be to set up a group to manage the flow of gas through ukraine, which would be a rapid and important measure now, and would also require the involvement of a neutral party.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu is the world's largest economic power. yet, many residents freeze in their homes. why is the eu failing to guarantee warming? it is now clearer than ever that the eu must reduce its dependence on russian gas. the eu must build a common market for electricity and gas to ensure its citizens' access to energy. this requires solidarity within the union. france and germany are in key positions. nobody, not even germany, can count on more gas from gazprom for many years to come. nord stream is not the answer. the mediation in the gas war between russia and ukraine provides the eu with a good opportunity to require the parties to comply with rules of the game compatible with a common energy market within the union. that chance, that opportunity, is to be seized.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, neil parish, for this conversation. ensuring the welfare of animals is a very important matter. the commission must ensure that the implementation and control of the regulation on the transport of animals is uniform throughout the eu. eu legislation on the transport of animals is strict. the repeated serious problems in transporting animals are due to gross violations of the law. the current transport regulations with their flexibilities are sufficient when they are controlled and at the same time maintaining a high level of transport equipment, including proper ventilation, temperature monitoring, drinking water system and satellite tracking. in addition, there is a need to train drivers and to develop animal health guidelines, as is already the case in many member states. i believe it is important that the current animal transport regulation is properly implemented throughout the eu and that the experience gained from it is taken into account before new rules are drawn up.
i believe, mr president, that all of us in the european union and in the european parliament want peace in that region. peace and ceasefire. and in order to achieve a ceasefire, we must make a strong effort to disarm the terrorist organization hamas. i think that the characterization of hamas as a terrorist organization could have been better expressed in this motion for a resolution, but i know that when such a compromise is being built between the different parties, it can be difficult to achieve. in any case, we must be fair, objective and above all, as europeans, we must defend democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and the fight against terrorism in all circumstances, that is the most important thing. we must also remember that this all started with a terrorist attack, and now we must get the terror out of this.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioners, solidarity is a beautiful word, it is generally part of the vocabulary of the left. but solidarity must not only be demanded in the name of gazprom and the anti-russian policy, but also in the fight against energy poverty in general. energy must also be made available to the poor for electricity and heat. the great problem with the european energy strategy is that it is not being built from scratch, but that each country has its own geographical, historical and energy economic roots. if there is a common strategy and harmonised structures, that means that there are winners and losers. there are countries which are forced to abandon structures which have been tested and found to be good at national level in the name of solidarity. solidarity cannot be that. the harmonization of electricity grids also means the harmonization of electricity prices. in practice, this is not done at the level of the lowest prices, but at the level of some average prices. and then there are losers, which are the countries with the cheapest electricity. in the same way, the financing of gas pipelines from the eu budget will be paid to countries that do not use the pipelines. laperrouze is right to say that investments in the network are the responsibility of the member states or the companies operating in them, not the eu. the eu cannot be an operator of an oil, gas or electricity network, and large amounts of eu budgetary resources should not be used to finance network investments. our group, like mr harms, also recalls the problems known to exist in the use of nuclear energy. as co2 emissions decrease on one side, plutonium increases on the other.
mr president, commissioners and colleagues, we have a history behind us. our energy grid was built for the needs of the cold war and the political conditions of the cold war. now they have been improved and replaced here and there, but this has created a problem for us which we will have to return to later. as the demand for energy has increased dramatically with the rapid development of the economy, so have the price, the supply and the environmental problems. they have become our greatest challenge. of course, when problems are global, they also require global solutions. that is why it is important that we involve the united states and the developing countries in the joint energy process. we are leading the way, but the united states must follow europe's lead and come alongside us. when energy solutions are global, we need european energy diplomacy, and i understand that the energy commissioner has done quite a lot of work on this in the context of this latest energy crisis. we need energy diplomacy simply because these are such big issues that wars have been fought over them before and will be fought over them in the future. i mean, this is a very serious matter. it is also clear that we need the widest possible 'energy mix', that is, the widest possible variety of energy sources, because this will stabilise the energy situation and the diversity of each nation and of europe will be fully respected. saving is, of course, the most important way, it is the cheapest and it is the most effective. for this we need what i believe is the single most important thing that should be addressed today: intelligence for energy. without a strong increase in intelligence, we will not be able to meet these objectives. fortunately, the technology of intelligence has evolved at exactly the same time. without intelligent technology, people and businesses will not understand the importance of energy consumption. so itc is the solution that helps us achieve our goals and keeps us in order. it reminds us of wastefulness. so it's like a good teacher, but it's also a good ring. so, not only for networks, but also for devices, homes, cars, intelligence is needed. wherever there is human activity, there must be intelligence to direct the use of energy. in this connection, i would particularly emphasize the sector of small and mediumsized enterprises and their innovations, because they can be very inventive. the social dimension, energy poverty and employment, are also linked to what we have just said. what's special about us is that ukraine is a transit country. so, of course, as swoboda said, the pipeline should be under a different administration, such as a tripartite administration with the eu, and that would also remove the problem.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, thank you to the authors of this report for the multifaceted work they have done and for bringing an important issue to the fore in this debate. as the report says, i believe it is very important that the union commits itself to common, long-term objectives in its energy strategy. energy saving measures are the absolute key to radically reducing energy consumption. there are no national solutions to europe-wide problems. in order to ensure europe's energy security, the union must contribute to the creation of a common transmission network and a common energy market and to better coordination. the report places too much emphasis on nuclear power as one of the major energy challenges for europe's future. in view of the risks and drawbacks of nuclear power, this is a short-sighted and harmful policy. the report is not ambitious enough in relation to renewable energy sources. a europe that is building towards competitive and sustainable growth should aim to increase the share of renewable energy to 80% by 2050. many studies - including the erene studies by the german aerospace centre and the heinrich böll stiftung - show that the efficient use of clean, new forms of energy would be technically and economically feasible. all we need now is the political will.
in writing. mr president,the debate on aviation is often skewed: there is a one-sided focus on the emissions problem of aviation, but no willingness to see the potential of aviation. it is clear that aviation and air transport are the past, but it is equally clear that they are the future. this applies to both commercial and business aviation and general aviation. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been operating in the absence of a public service obligation. in view of the growing economic importance of commercial aviation in particular, it is imperative that we list the sectors and ensure their competitiveness. i want to raise a concern about the operating conditions of aviation. the importance of small and medium-sized airports is crucial for both general and commercial aviation; their modernisation and establishment should be promoted and member states should be encouraged to invest. the continuous growth of commercial aviation activity is increasing the congestion of existing airports. from a climate protection perspective, although smaller aircraft are not included in the future greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme, the industry is developing a voluntary carbon sequestration mechanism. this is a demonstration of the potential of the whole air transport sector. the community should be encouraged to do more research into new types of aircraft, more energy-efficient and more environmentally friendly. the objective shall be no less than zero-emission air transport.
in writing. – thank you chairman! this report is important to showcase and reverse the discrimination based on gender and intergenerational solidarity! it has been pretty clear that women who chose to take time off from work to take care of their newborn child have been discriminated against. they often have trouble returning to their jobs with the same opportunities, miss out on job promotions, and lose both income and social security benefits. furthermore, men and women who stay home for long periods of time to take care of the elderly or young children often lose out economically because they don't have an income and their work is not factored into the gdp even though it is important work. this work often goes ignored by policy makers and society as a whole. people look down upon people who chose to stay home instead of work because they feel as if they are not contributing to society. ladies and gentlemen! the eu should promote policies that eliminate this discriminatory mindset and give people who chose to stay home to take care of a family member more leave arrangements and more support. these policies should be funded by the public purse as to lessen the likelihood that employers' will discriminate against their employees! thank you!
mr president, guantanamo should never have been established, nor should secret prisons. the primary responsibility for the closure of the prison and the treatment of prisoners thereafter lies with the united states, but humanitarian and human rights considerations support the admission of prisoners to eu member states. each member state decides on the basis of its own legislation whether or not to take them in. at the same time, i would like to remind you of this hall of millions of refugees around the world, of refugee camps where people have lived for years. we look the other way, we turn our backs. the eu's active approach to human rights is unfortunately selective.
mr president, we have a common desire to end the guantanamo prison camp, and now we have an excellent opportunity to do so, with the new president of the united states having shown this same desire. the main responsibility, of course, lies with the united states, but i hope that the eu can act in a truly united way and that the member states will show solidarity and will be flexible enough to take these prisoners into their own prisons, according to their own capabilities and conditions. we have joined the fight against terrorism to defend human rights. now is the time to join the united states in helping defend human rights.
in writing. the european union has been an incomprehensible failure to take consistent diplomatic action to condemn the illegal actions of the united states in international organizations on the basis of human rights violations. the actions of the new president show that the actions are considered illegal and ethically and morally intolerable. it has been the eu's commitment to illegality in the pussy of the former us president, and from the point of view of free eu citizens, it is a degradation of the eu's authority and a loss of respect. the eu should be ashamed of its inaction.
for the alde group. a european debate on the status of various minorities is very welcome. a common understanding of the rights and obligations of national, ethnic or linguistic minorities, immigrants and stateless persons would benefit these groups and the union as a whole in many ways. today, nearly one in ten eu citizens belong to a national, linguistic or ethnic minority. some, like me, the swedish speaker in finland, are treated well. others are discriminated against or denied. it is important that national historical minorities should be able to feel that they are full members of the union. the eu needs the support of its minorities and must not fail to give them the opportunity to participate actively in decision-making and in the work for a secure and harmonious common future. it is clear that identical rules cannot apply to national minorities as for example to immigrant minorities. immigrants need special support to integrate into their new home country. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in local elections. the eu needs a common approach to minority issues, also to defend itself and its member states against external pressures and provocations where minority rights are used as a battleground to sow division and create disorder. the russian interference and propaganda in estonia and latvia, among other countries, are warning examples. we must not give weapons to those who would harm us. europe needs a representative minority forum which would act as a consultative body on issues dealt with by the european parliament and the council of europe. it would also be important to give this parliamentary committee a clear responsibility for minority issues. this parliament should adopt a declaration on the rights of minorities. finally, a specific question: is the commission prepared to take responsibility for the launching of a european minority debate and is it prepared to actively promote fair treatment of the union's minorities and not just linguistic diversity, which is often used to forget about minorities? (applause) i would like to thank you.
what are the consequences of 50 years of soviet occupation for the latvian population? why do a large part of the russian-speaking population not want to apply for citizenship? what's russia's part in this? latvia needs our support, not our condemnation, to encourage its stateless people to seek citizenship. i would like to ask mr tabajdi: what would finland have to take revenge on sweden for and what does that have to do with this?
mr president, the interim committee on climate change, set up in spring 2007 on the initiative of the social democrats, is bearing good fruit today. the outcome of the intergroup consultations and discussions is an ambitious long-term action plan to mitigate climate change. the best thanks for this go to the rapporteur, karl-heinz florenz, and to the shadow rapporteurs from all the groups who have worked well together. many were sceptical about whether the committee on climate change would add value to parliament's work. today we can see the power of members of parliament who look at things from different angles, working together and listening together to the world's leading experts. it produces a result that is believable, as we shall see. i am sure that the very existence of the committee and its work in particular also made it possible to pass the climate package in an intensive and rapid manner last december. i also strongly support the appeal by the committee chairman, mr guido saccon, that the post-election parliament should take up this matter and organise the handling of climate change issues in parliament in the most rigorous way possible. the european union has long been convinced that we need to act to combat climate change. but we have not had the financial means. the climate fund now proposed, which will be funded by the auctioning of emissions trading revenues, is a significant initiative and i hope it will continue well into the future. we need it to bring about a change in our industrial structure and to really get into this new green deal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank karl-heinz florenz very warmly for his excellent work as rapporteur. now, our biggest challenge is to get the next international climate agreement. its two most difficult issues are the emission reduction targets of different countries and how the developed countries contribute to the financing of climate investments in developing countries. in both these areas, the eu must raise its ambition, although we can take pride in the fact that we have always been at the forefront of global climate protection. the 30% reduction by 2020 is not enough in the light of the latest research, and emissions reduction targets need to be tightened up. as regards the financing of climate action by developing countries, i regret that the commission's recent communication still remained too general and did not provide sufficiently concrete models. in various contexts, including the debate on the climate package, parliament has shown its willingness to give substantial support to emission reductions in developing countries. this is one of the areas where the eu should also encourage the new us president to take a new line. the united states has so far made no statement about its willingness to support developing countries' emission reduction targets. climate protection is feasible, but action must be swift and consistent.
i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr baringdorf, for the thorough preparation he has made of this matter. the eu's food safety has been shaken by many crises in recent years, including bse and several dioxin scandals, the most recent of which was last autumn. the causes of crises have often been found in contaminated feed, which has been the subject of algal or even criminal activity. this regulation is appropriate to simplify and clarify the legislation. the regulation should strengthen consumer confidence in the whole european food chain. consumers must be protected and have the possibility of tracing where and how food is produced when they buy it. the second objective is the legal protection of farmers. farmers must make choices based on labelling and have confidence in the quality of the feed. as mr mulder has said, the manufacturing rights of feed producers must also be safeguarded. in many member states, things are well under control, but the regulation now under discussion, clarifying labelling and facilitating traceability of feed origin, is needed to put things right across the eu and to eliminate the differences in interpretation. however, i would like to stress that, as with the other regulations, enforcement and control are key. even clear and precise instructions will not help unless they are followed in practice. feed control must ensure that feed is safe, fit for purpose and complies with the legal requirements, thereby improving the safety of the entire food chain and protecting consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the three rapporteurs for their report. i regret to say, however, that i do not share the uncritical attitude towards nato, which is represented in particular by the vatasen report. of course, nato is not the same as it was during the cold war, nor is europe, and cooperation between nato and the eu is a very good thing. however, i do not share the view that it is a problem that not all eu member states are members of nato. it is a fact that some have been able to make a valuable contribution to peace building precisely because they have remained outside military alliances, as my country finland has done. because finland is not a member of military alliances, it is hardly ever seen as an enemy or a spokesman for the enemy. this has helped many finns to act as peacemakers, such as former prime minister holker in northern ireland, former president ahtisaari in namibia, indonesia, aceh and kosovo, and former minister haavisto in sudan. the fact that the majority of eu citizens live in nato countries does not mean that we must not recognise that the existence of neutral countries is a valuable resource for peacebuilding which must not be abandoned in the name of some kind of internal eu military policy standardisation.
i am speaking, mr president, of the vatase report and i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr vatase, for the open-minded way in which he has prepared it. however, i think it is a wrong message from parliament to call for the strengthening of the military organisation and to stress the importance of military power backed up by nato, as the report does. cooperation and partnership, democracy and human rights as a guarantee of peace and stability is a viable european model that could be used in any crisis zone in the world. in addition, we face a deepening economic crisis, environmental problems and the challenges of climate change that cannot be solved by military force. i think it would be more important to emphasise the importance of the eu's common foreign policy and to focus on preventing conflicts and removing the causes of crises, such as poverty eradication and the promotion of democracy, human rights and civil society. i would also like to remind you that the union has non-nato members who have their own reasons for this decision. these states must be allowed to decide their own security policy decisions without pressure. finland, for example, has managed its own defence well and has been involved in peacekeeping missions around the world for decades. many changes have been made to the report to improve it, but they do not change its basic flow.
in writing. mr president! finland has no reason to be ashamed of its security policy decisions. outside nato, finland is in the right company with sweden, austria and switzerland. they're easy to relate to. non-alignment outside nato is the modern alternative to a mature state. there has been talk of a softer nato, as the 'warlike' president has been replaced by a 'peaceful' one in the united states. it's not hard to imagine that under the leadership of president obama and secretary of state hillary clinton, talk of a soft nato will become more and more common. but let's just let time pass and watch nato develop. my own assessment is that the fundamental nature of nato has not changed at all since the two-pronged security system was broken. but the propaganda of a soft nato has been very successful. staring at russia (russia, russia, russia) or waiting for another winter war will not lead to anything. nor is nato a valid answer to any of the major problems that finland will face in the near future, which are mainly economic in nature.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is the world's largest donor of development aid, accounting for 60% of all development aid financing. the union's strong role as a key actor in development cooperation should be further strengthened in the future. it is of paramount importance for the stability and peace of the developing countries that the union sticks to its objective of increasing the contribution of development aid to gdp by 0.7% by 2015. but this alone is not enough. the achievement of general coherence between the different institutions in development cooperation is essential. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). the eu must build the necessary instruments to give coherent development policies a stronger foothold. however, there are legal gaps in the current union's legal framework for development cooperation, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for raising this important point. projects aimed at developing cooperation in the fields of transport, technology and energy, as well as scientific cooperation and dialogue between ngos, are essential for the social functioning of developing countries. however, these projects do not have the primary objective of promoting economic development and welfare in developing countries and therefore do not meet the criteria for oda as laid down by the oecd. official development assistance must continue to focus specifically on eradicating poverty and improving people's living conditions.
in writing. mental health i would like to thank my colleague, mr evangelio tzampazi, for the report on mental health, which i voted for. one in four europeans will suffer from mental health problems at least once in their lifetime. it is also estimated that by 2020, depression will become the most common disease and the second leading cause of disability in the developed world. external factors, such as the current impact of the financial crisis, make these problems more likely to occur. in addition to incurring costs that burden the health sector and the entire social and economic system, mental illness further reduces the quality of life of those who suffer from it unnecessarily and their families. despite the rapid improvement in treatment and attitudes, people with mental health problems and their families are still often excluded. the levels of prevention and quality of care vary too widely, both between eu countries and regionally within countries. i am pleased that the tzampazia report has given particular attention to the mental health of young people and that it proposes multi-sectoral programmes to address this. however, we must not forget that it is always the responsibility of parents and out-of-home educators and bodies to do the most important preventive mental health work; to promote healthy lifestyles and to listen and pay attention to children and young people. i think that the tzampazia report is particularly important in terms of promoting the high quality, accessibility and efficiency of public mental health services and greater investment in funding quality research. in particular, funding for medical research on prevention and links between mental and physical health problems should be increased.
mr president, the drafting of next year's budget is a challenge. the preparations for next summer's european parliament elections will take a long break, and the possible entry into force of the lisbon treaty will mean that the budget will be prepared according to different rules than those which apply to its implementation. i therefore wish the drafters of the budget, mr surján and mr maňka, every success in their enormous task. the eu's structural policy is a huge bureaucracy. the reason is the hopelessly complex system of administration and control, which is ready for only 20% of the social fund programmes and only 7% of the regional development fund programmes. only 2% of large projects are ready to be funded. however, the new programming period has already been over two years. for example, last year over eur 2.8 billion in commitments were cancelled or carried over, and over eur 4 billion in payment appropriations were cancelled.
mr president, a challenging year, an election year and the economic crisis at its height. this is a very big responsibility, but fortunately, colleagues surján and maňka are doing it. i know that both of you are responsible and capable of doing your job. this of course means that when we are thinking in particular of parliament's own projects, we must set an example for the citizens and thereby gain their confidence and really think through a magnifying glass about what projects can be undertaken during this period. not very grand. i asked for the floor to draw attention to one detail. it is that this year's budget has a separate heading, 'baltic strategy', and i hope that this year both the commission and parliament will find the right projects, the right money for the right measures. the citizens of the baltic sea region expect to see meat on the bones of this baltic strategy, and with careful thought we can do very well in this.
in writing. tomorrow will show that in much of europe there is the political will to preserve the gambling monopoly that is vital for finland. the european parliament's support for veikkaus, ray and fintoto in finland is important because the infringement procedures initiated by the commission are still relevant. it is important for the grassroots movement in european sport and for the grassroots action that member states are allowed to maintain their national gambling systems. they are also an essential part of the specific character of finnish sport, where volunteering supported by society is the basis for top-level sport as well. it is also easier to combat gambling addiction in countries where governments have a monopoly. online gambling accounts for only about 5% of the total jackpot, but the industry is growing rapidly. it is therefore important that the rights of member states remain intact, even in the internet age. we must not forget that, following the adoption of the lisbon treaty, the eu has competence in certain areas of sport. this will help to combat the scourges of professional sport, such as racism, doping and hooligans.
mr president, the ippc directive has been actively prepared over the last year and, although the final form of the directive will have enormous implications for eu industry and citizens, it has still been left behind in the climate and energy package. this is a pity, because the economic impact of the directive, combined with the measures already decided in the context of the climate package, is considerable. they should therefore be proportionate to the climate and environmental benefits of the directive. the improvement measures proposed in accordance with the objectives of the directive must above all be cost-effective. otherwise, this challenging merger of seven different directives into one would not be acceptable. we must be able to cut the current bureaucracy and the costs of action, although i am disappointed that the report by the committee on the environment does not achieve that. the permitting authorities should be given greater freedom to consider the emission limit values of existing installations, taking into account the age and technical level of the installation, the environmental impact and state of the environment and the cost of the improvement measures. this would ensure sufficient flexibility for existing power generating installations, in particular peak and reserve power plants, to operate until the end of their service life. similarly, the adoption of the european safety net in the form proposed by the rapporteur would be a very difficult matter for a number of reasons. there is no information on where and how the esn would be placed, which is an unreasonable situation. secondly, the local licensing authority is clearly better placed to take account of the prevailing circumstances, such as the age of the plant, its location and, for example, the water intake, which allows for flexibility instead of an inflexible esn. the terms of the permit are already quite strict. the restrictions imposed on these new permits will be costly without any substantial environmental benefits. in practice, this would reduce the level of environmental protection. i am glad that my group's amendment clarifies this point. i would like to thank mr jackson in particular for his amendment no 134, which my group has gone to support. once again, we see the wisdom of experience in action. the amendment will find a compromise on many of the most difficult questions.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the treaties, rules of procedure and institutional affairs. - mr president, openness is the foundation and basis of democracy. unfortunately, the european union cannot boast of its openness. the directives must be changed, but also attitudes, or what do you say about the council's opinion that the council should not give outsiders legal advice documents relating to the legislative procedure. i mean, to the citizens, to outsiders, they're not supposed to be given. i cannot understand that citizens are outsiders in the european union. in other words, attitudes must be changed, legislation must be changed so that documents relating to legislation of the council, parliament and the commission are open, and i emphasize the word 'legislative' documents. if i compare this with the work of the finnish parliament, for example, it is hard to imagine that the opinions of the finnish parliament's constitutional committee are secret. it is not the case that the citizens are not told the reasons why this law is being enacted, and the council says that it should not say anything because the citizens are outsiders. we must start with greater transparency in legislation, in the formulation of directives, in everything, and there is also room for improvement in parliament's voting behaviour. we should have a machine vote... (speaker interrupted speaker)
mr president, access to information is one of the cornerstones of democracy. people have to have the widest possible access to all information at the early stages of the decisions taken by the institutions, or on the background to these decisions, so that they can fully participate in the formulation of policies. the eu aspires to be more democratic and accessible to its citizens, so granting the widest possible access to eu documents is crucial to the union’s efforts to increase citizens’ confidence in its institutions and to the whole legitimacy of this institution. that is why i was rather disappointed at the commission’s proposal regarding this regulation, although i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the very good, dedicated and skilful work he has done in this context. i would also like to thank mrs jäätteenmäki for her great efforts in this matter. both of them have held to the guiding principles of openness and transparency where denying access to any document held by an institution is a definite exception. such exceptions are in some cases necessary, but they should be limited to the smallest number on a clearly-defined basis. i also welcome the initiatives to push for the more proactive and clear disclosure of documents through improved internet databases. accessing documents is also a question of finding them. often information exists online but is hiding behind complex databases, and there we certainly need a lot more further development. colleagues, we are defenders of democracy and, therefore, should have been more active already. we have to be very bold in defending broad access and transparency to all documents. i think that this is not the time to start compromising, or else we may compromise our status as good decision-makers in the eyes of our voters as well.
in writing. mr president, i am very pleased with the outcome of the vote on the schaldemosen report on the integrity of online gambling. it shows that the vast majority of members of parliament consider gambling to be a specific economic activity which cannot be subject to the rules of the internal market alone. the social and health effects of gambling, as well as the associated risks of crime and cultural specificities, should be taken into account. the fact that a number of studies show that the internet as a tool multiplies these risks is also a factor. it is clear that no single authority would be able to control internet gambling on a pan-european basis. the schaldemosen report also highlights the positive effects of gambling activities, which i consider particularly important to protect. in many european countries, these games generate substantial sums of money for the arts, science, culture, youth work and hospitals, among others. thousands of ngos benefit from the funding they provide, and gambling is the main source of income for sports organisations, and especially grassroots sports activities, across the eu. the fact that the majority in parliament wants to maintain the existing national laws on gambling policy and not replace them with a mere framework regulation which would offer considerably less consumer protection does not mean that the market should not be liberalised. it simply means that liberalisation must be done on the terms of the member states. and if the national monopoly is to be maintained, it must be non-discriminatory and legally justifiable.
in writing. mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, last week the commission presented to the council its communication on the economic crisis for the council meeting at the end of this month. the commission also presented its first assessment of the results of the european economic recovery package. the commission considers the preliminary results to be good and estimates that the total value of recovery measures at national and european level combined will be around 3,3% of gdp in 2009-2010. i congratulate the rapporteur on the very good report he has produced. i think it is particularly important that he stresses the need for coordination of the member states' actions. the emergence of protectionist tendencies is extremely worrying. while all the member states are saying that they are all blowing together, the reality is quite different. it is vital that eu leaders make decisions now on the basis of their speeches and do not give in to protectionist pressures, which are undoubtedly strong in many countries. the eu must take a new, ambitious step in the continuation of the lisbon strategy. the eu needs a recovery package that supports new sectors as a basis for competitiveness and growth. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy. crisis is also an opportunity. it is an opportunity to reorganise the whole pan-european and global financial architecture. the crisis is also an opportunity to push economic growth in a completely new direction, based on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. the so-called green new deal should be the basis for recovery and new growth. in this way, while creating jobs and innovation, we are also responding to the challenges of climate change.
mr president, i would first like to say that i support this report by mr cashman, and i thank him for it. it has improved a great deal here in parliament, taking into account what the commission's original proposal was. the starting point must be that the decision-making process is open. the people must have access to documents, because that is the only way to build trust, and it is very important that we can get people to see how the legislative process is going at european level, and that transparency is observed at all levels of administration with regard to documents. of course, everyone understands that there are some areas, such as matters relating to the health of individuals and so on, where we must act in a closed way, but in principle everything in the legislative process must be transparent, and in this respect i welcome this and believe that honest and transparent decision-making is the way to win the confidence of the citizens.
mr president, the lisbon strategy is a good thing, but it must be said that the idea of europe being the world's leading knowledge-based economy in 2010 is not coming to fruition. we are now in 2009, and if we are to achieve anything, we need to find the right kind of commitment across europe very quickly. and then we can achieve this goal, maybe by 2020 or 2030. this means, in particular, that we must commit ourselves to education and research at european level very quickly. we are in an economic recession and in the midst of this economic recession we must remember that if we are to have adequate human resources, labour in our labour market, then we need to make a special effort in education and teacher training, and this is the priority if we really want to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
writer. - mr president, mr president of the council, commissioner! we in the european parliament must find out whether the council and the commission still believe that sis ii will be implemented. will the commission persevere and try to find a technical solution to the problems that now exist? what is the way forward? as has been said in the two previous speeches, we in the european parliament want to be kept informed of the problems, and we have not been informed now. if sis ii cannot be implemented in its current form, is there a plan b? will one be presented? as mr roure was saying, the question of sis ii is ultimately a question of the credibility of the union in guaranteeing the internal security of the union. however, it should also be borne in mind that the same infrastructure is to be used for the visa information system (vis). in the long run, therefore, the credibility of the union's visa policy is also at stake, i.e. its ability to manage its relations with the outside world in a humane manner. and finally: does the commission still have the full support of the member states for this project? are they willing to bear the cost of a project that never seems to materialize?
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution by my colleague mr berman on the fifth world water forum. the triennial world water forum, to be held in istanbul next week, is an opportunity to discuss and inform global policy decisions on water and water resources management. two years ago i myself prepared a report on water management in developing countries for the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. as the berman resolution shows, bad governance is largely responsible for the world's poor water situation. support is needed in particular to increase regional decision-making and cooperation. it is also clear that the public sector alone cannot provide the estimated $49 billion per year (until 2015) for water infrastructure development, as estimated by the world bank. to address water supply problems, the solution to generating the necessary funds could be found in public-private partnerships, particularly where funding from public companies is insufficient and private funding is not an option. the importance of research in solving water problems or in adequate monitoring and investment in groundwater resources should not be underestimated either. like energy, water is becoming more and more a political issue, and there will be great struggles over its availability. it is understandable to make it a political priority at an early stage.
mr president, in the last legislative year, compromises at first reading have become more and more common, with an explosion of urgency. it is also appropriate for small groups, because the agreements reached at the negotiating table increase their power over their size. however, as this practice becomes more widespread, it undermines the credibility of parliamentary democracy in parliament. but this time democracy won because the major groups found a common line and the result achieved has the support of a genuine majority. it was clear that the cosmetics directive needed to be recast. the provisions needed to be clarified and updated and the guidance directive had to be converted into a binding regulation in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health throughout the eu and the functioning of the internal market. these principles follow logically from the work initiated in the reach process. in the cosmetics sector in particular, outdated legislation is a threat to health and legal certainty. the claims concerning nanoparticles and cosmetic products are a good example. while the benefits of nanomaterials are somewhat known, the risks are largely unknown. similarly, it has not been possible to verify with certainty the specific characteristics of cosmetic products which directly influence the purchasing decision. it was therefore important to achieve a common line between the three largest political groups so that the health, environmental, commercial and social aspects would be covered in such a way that an agreement with the council was possible. i therefore highly appreciate the work of mr grossetête as shadow rapporteur. he, in collaboration with the rapporteur for the house, mr roth-behrendt, and his liberal colleagues, secured the majority line which made this possible. a true democracy listens to everyone, but reflects the majority.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, subcontracting chains are a normal part of business. they allow for efficient and flexible work organisation. they are an essential and necessary economic and logistical network for the functioning of the internal market. however, it is necessary, both for the functioning of the market and for the protection of consumers, that the responsibilities of contractors and subcontractors towards each other be defined by law. the report calls on the commission to draw up a clear legal instrument for a pan-european system of customer responsibility. it also notes that the introduction of the system respects the different legal systems of the member states and the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. eight member states already have such national legislation, but it is necessary to regulate the relationships between supply chains at community level as well. common european problems must be solved by common rules. otherwise, countries which have not regulated this sector of economic activity may distort competition at the expense of other countries. it is not just a question of protecting workers, but of safeguarding the competitiveness of companies that respect the rules. the question of combating the shadow economy is raised. the undermining of wages and the non-payment of taxes and social contributions under the protection of subcontracting chains affects all taxpayers and competing companies, most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises. subcontractors, often small firms, also need clear rules when they are working under very large contractors. it has now been shown that country-specific schemes also act as a preventive force, and the threshold for non-compliance by employers is raised when penalties are to be expected for infringements. it is in the interest of all europeans to have minimum working conditions and clear rules. this will allow labour to move confidently from one country to another, businesses to have confidence in contracts and consumers to be sure that the price of a product or service is correct and transparent. it is no coincidence that the report specifically refers to corporate social responsibility.
in writing. i would like to thank the rapporteur for a job well done. the quality of the report is worthy of highlighting many important aspects and problems in the interaction between the eu and its citizens. the eu is not the number one favourite of the people in any of the member states. the irish referendum last july seemed to show that the irish people, at least, did not want more union. for some reason, the negative messages and fears of losing power to the faceless brussels are better received than the messages about all the good that the union has done. the great unknown is always too safe a threat. it's easy to join that choir. a stronger involvement of citizens and ngos in all the union's activities would increase the union's acceptability. in particular, in legislative matters, citizens and organisations must be given greater opportunities to influence and express their views at all stages of the legislative process. the report also mentions the interesting fact that in the most recent referendums on the eu, women voted more often than men against the eu. it is clear that for some reason, women in particular feel the eu to be somewhat alien to them. one reason is obvious: the union has a very masculine face. the president of the commission is a man, as are almost 70% of the commissioners. the president of parliament is also a man, as are most of the committees of this parliament. it is important that in the coming period gender equality is implemented as far as possible in the eu's decision-making bodies. at least one woman must be appointed to the so-called "top posts". active dialogue with citizens and civil society is the most important way of increasing the legitimacy of the union.
mr president, i would like to thank maria badia i cutchet for her report. after the poetic speech by mr sumberg, i would like to say that it is very important that the flower of culture can flourish in its full extent in europe too. it is very important that education not only emphasizes knowledge and learning but also remembers the growth of the human being into a complete human being. the role of culture, art and sport is very important in building a holistic personality. in this connection, it is appropriate to remind the school systems of the various countries, through open coordination also in europe, that they should include higher education in the arts in their curricula, because europe is known for its diversity, its multiculturalism, its wide range of art and culture. it is appropriate that we should also learn about the culture of other countries, about the great european cultural figures in the palaces of different cultures.
mr president, mr hegyi's report is good and necessary. we need an active dialogue between the peoples and citizens of europe. we need understanding on both sides. we also need tolerance in that we are willing to tolerate different speeches. we need it in this house, in the european parliament. i was very saddened to see that now, during the czech presidency, when president klaus was speaking, some of the representatives left the chamber in protest. are they not prepared to listen to the views of different citizens, different presidents, different institutions and different people on european affairs in general? we must be prepared to listen to different points of view, we need interaction, dialogue, and we need it also at grassroots level, so that citizens can feel that they can have an influence on things, and not in such a way that the european union is seen as a small club for the elite. i support the proposal to increase active dialogue, tolerant dialogue, at all levels throughout europe. that's what we really need.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs graça moura for her excellent work. he is very strongly committed to these language issues, and it is quite true that language is a fundamental right. language is the basis of identity and that is why we must promote multilingualism in the european union. however, the alternative resolution was voted over the original report. i myself participated in the drafting of the alternative resolution and it is perhaps appropriate to say why we have started to draft an alternative resolution on the basis of the very meritorious work of graça moura. the reason was that we wanted to guarantee the status of minority languages in particular. as they say, we in europe are only as strong as our weakest links, as the most vulnerable people in our society. we must therefore ensure that minority groups, such as the sami in finland, retain the right to their mother tongue, so that they also receive basic services in their mother tongue. just like all other indigenous peoples, they need to be taken care of. it is therefore of particular importance that the european union fulfils its cultural role by taking good care of all languages, including minority languages.
in writing. - i would like to express my satisfaction with what we have achieved today in the cosmetics regulation. the cosmetics market is full of imaginary promises and pseudoscientific nonsense, where sometimes only the verbal richness of the advertising designer has been the limit when it comes to proving the effectiveness of a product. now the rules are getting tighter, and that's the right thing to do. the new regulation requires that claims based on the actual characteristics of products be used in advertising. so the power must be proven. the report requested the commission to draw up an action plan on claims and to adopt a list of criteria for the assessment of claims. the proposal was intended to simplify existing legislation. the current over 3500 pages of national legislation are summarised in a single text. this will ensure a high level of protection of human health throughout the eu and the functioning of the internal market. in the cosmetics sector in particular, outdated legislation is a threat to health and legal security. these principles follow logically on from the work initiated by the chemicals regulation in the context of reach.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the european union can help developing countries and other non-eu countries financially through the european investment bank's low-interest credit. the eu guarantees the lending of the investment bank so that it does not incur credit losses as a lender and can continue to finance its own lending with the lowest possible market interest rates. the european parliament, when the eu guarantees to the european investment bank were renewed and extended to more countries, considered that decisions were taken under the codecision procedure and also within the competence of the european parliament, not just the council. the court of justice agreed with parliament's position and, on the basis of its decision, the council's unilateral decision was returned to the codecision procedure. a new decision must be taken by 6 november this year. the commission proposal for a decision is now before us, and it can be regarded as provisional, giving the commission until the end of april next year to prepare a new overall proposal. this is a provisional decision on which parliament has left its fingerprints, which have been accepted by the council. it is a positive thing that after complex negotiations there is agreement between the council and parliament on this matter and that a decision can be taken today at the first and only reading. i would like to thank the czech presidency and the representatives of the czech republic who have worked hard in the council to achieve consensus. without the active involvement of the czech republic, this solution would not have been achieved. i have to criticize the european investment bank's cooks who confused the soup. the european investment bank is accustomed to having the backing of parliament in its own affairs, but the representatives of the european investment bank did not understand that this was a co-decision procedure and a significant addition to the powers of parliament. parliament wanted to use its powers to the full, which has not been possible in previous consultation procedures. i think it was completely inappropriate for the european investment bank, which is part of the eu institutions, to disregard the established procedures of this parliament and to try to influence the decision from the political outside. but the end result is good. the european investment bank got what it wanted, for the most part. it was understood by parliament in a decision-making procedure in which parliament itself formed its own opinion. the decision now has a high degree of political consensus, whereas the eib's approach would not have had that. i thank the presidency of the council for reaching a compromise. i thank the committee on budgets and its shadow rapporteurs for the unanimity they have shown in reaching a solution at the first reading. i'm sure this is a good decision for all parties involved.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i note that there is a great deal of agreement in this chamber on the legal basis for the new mandate of the eib for external lending. since the representatives of the european investment bank were a little late and did not hear my opening speech, i would like to emphasize to them that the matter is now decided by the codecision procedure and that the european parliament is no longer a mere door-to-door affair, as it has been in the case of the european investment bank. the investment bank can no longer rely on the support of a few creditors in the future. in the codecision procedure, it needs the broad support of the european parliament. it requires the eib to change its approach to the european parliament in a more constructive way than we have experienced during the course of this mandate. i believe that this has been made clear to the bank during the course of this mandate and i hope that the bank understands the message that parliament has given it. as the saying goes in my country, all's well that ends well.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we are now considering a report on activity-based budgeting and governance. i would like to thank the whole committee on budgets for its strong and consistent support, as well as the committee's secretariat and all my assistants. the budgeting and management by activity (abb and abm) was implemented during the prod commission, under the chairmanship of commissioner kinnock. the reform was prompted by the report of an external expert group commissioned to investigate the crisis experienced by the previous commission. this report is a kind of mid-term review of the kinnock reform. the objective of functional budgeting and governance is to simplify administration by budgeting available resources and human resources according to policy areas. the administration must, in turn, clearly communicate the results achieved in such a way that their value in relation to the inputs is clearly visible. the emphasis is on the results rather than on how they are achieved. the way it works is like the way business works. the matter can also be stated in a simplified way. it is not enough that the money is spent or, in the extreme, "burned" legally and regularly, the quality of the administration is determined by the results, not by the good intentions. the results also show the efficiency of the administration. take, for example, structural and cohesion policy. if, two years and three months after the start of the programming period, more than three quarters of the management and control systems are not adopted, the administration cannot be considered effective. the commission and the member states may have their reasons, but the fact remains that the administration is bureaucratic and inefficient. action-based budgeting and governance emphasise and promote efficiency. it reduces bureaucracy and strengthens the legal position of the citizen and the sub-administration vis-à-vis the administration. action-based management emphasises personal responsibility but also gives freedom of action. in good governance, there is a clear division of responsibilities. management has a face on both the lower and upper levels. since the goal of management is efficiency, the supervisor should not unnecessarily restrict activity. only the necessary acts are necessary. no need for unnecessary reporting and planning. mr president, this report is based on a number of studies, the main ones being listed in the explanatory memorandum. the general tone of these is that the introduction of fab has been a success and has brought about a significant cultural change in the commission. it has clarified personal responsibility and accountability and improved the efficiency, results orientation and transparency of governance. but bureaucracy and its growth are a real danger. in particular, it is necessary to assess whether the current annual planning and evaluation process involves excessive planning, especially in relation to the presentation and evaluation of the results achieved. the commission's five-year strategic objectives, the commission's 'government programme', should also be assessed in relation to the multiannual financial framework and, subsequently, to the annual strategy for action. the annual strategy for action often includes elements which have little connection with the 'government programme', the five-year strategic objectives or the multiannual financial framework. this is usually a problem in the budgetary process, because the funds are behind the revision of the financial framework, which the council in particular opposes. clear examples of this have emerged in almost every recent year. the commission has particular difficulties in defining what are known as 'negative priorities', i.e. activities which are unnecessary or of less importance and which should be abandoned. in this respect, it would be desirable for the commission to be more courageous. the evaluation of administrative expenditure remains difficult, even though administrative expenditure is budgeted separately, because the operational appropriations still finance administration, including executive agencies and often technical assistance from the member states. the report therefore draws attention to the need for continuous monitoring of human resources. mr president, the report before us is based on our european heritage, article 15 of the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen of the french revolution of 1789: 'society has the right to ask a public official for an accounting of his administration'.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all those who have given their feedback on my report. i would say that at the moment, when the european union is a community of 27 member states and 480 million people, the administration needs to be simplified and made more efficient. the clear possibility of achieving this is provided by functional management and budgeting, whereby power and responsibility can be allocated to appropriate levels, so that both responsible management and effective programme implementation can be achieved. finally, i would like to thank all of you and in particular to wish mrs grybauskaitė good luck and success in the challenges ahead. it has been a great pleasure to work with you and we have all noted the excellent cooperation between parliament and the commission. thank you, and good luck.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many thanks to the rapporteur, mrs liotard, for her excellent work and for the excellent report. i am particularly pleased that the committee has taken the risks of nanomaterials seriously and wants to ban the use of meat from cloned animals for food. i mean, cloning causes animals a lot of pain. i also think that amendment no 60 is important, which means that products from animals fed genetically modified feed, i.e. milk, eggs and meat, must be labelled, and i hope that the whole of parliament will support it. the european consumer is wary of genetically modified food and there is little labelling of genetically modified plant foods in stores. but in the case of feed, we need to open a piggy bank that will bring genetically modified food to our tables. a large proportion of european feed is imported from the rest of the world, with a very large proportion coming from brazil and argentina, where gm feed is a major component. it is time to extend the principle of transparency to feed and the gmo label to animal products. the prime minister of my country supported this view two years ago, and i hope that my country will also support it in the council of ministers.
member of the commission. - the madam president, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr blokland, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work on this proposal for a recast of the regulation on the protection of the ozone layer. i am particularly pleased that we have reached agreement at first reading, largely thanks to the positive and constructive contribution of parliament. the policy of protecting the stratospheric ozone layer has been recognised as a very great success. the european union has played a decisive role in this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the ozone layer is not depleted. the reduction of these substances, in addition to protecting the ozone layer, has a particularly positive effect on the climate. this is because these substances have a global warming potential as much as 14,000 times that of co2! without the montreal protocol and without even more ambitious community regulation, global greenhouse gas emissions would be perhaps as much as 50% higher than they are today. thanks to these international efforts, scientists now estimate that the ozone layer can be fully restored between 2050 and 2075. however, in order to make this possible, certain problems still remain and must be overcome. the commission proposal aims both at simplifying the community regulation and reducing bureaucratic obstacles, and at adapting the regulation to new scientific developments and future challenges, in order to ensure the restoration of the ozone layer. the compromise agreement reached maintains the architecture of the commission proposal while also including the specific measures needed to address the remaining issues for the complete elimination or reduction of the use of ozone depleting substances. in particular, it provides for stricter provisions for substances 'stored' in products such as refrigeration equipment or insulating foams. it reinforces trade measures against the illicit use and trafficking of ozone depleting substances in the european union and will help to avoid environmental dumping in developing countries. finally, it prohibits all uses of methyl bromide, except in specific cases for the treatment of urgent problems, which will make community legislation on methyl bromide a world leader. the benefits, both in restoring the ozone layer and in reducing greenhouse gases, will be significant. the european commission is able to accept the compromise package of amendments in full. i would like to thank the european parliament again for its important contribution to keeping the environmental objective of our proposal intact and to reaching agreement at first reading.
for the ppe-de group mr president, the regulation under discussion is a natural extension and an important part of the montreal protocol, which obliges its 191 signatory states to actively phase out substances that deplete the ozone layer. the montreal protocol has been considered one of the most successful international environmental agreements. the results speak for themselves. the consumption of ozone depleting substances has been reduced by 95% compared to the reference level. in addition, over the past 20 years, the equivalent of more than 100 billion tons of carbon dioxide has been avoided. the regulation under discussion will therefore not only contribute to the restoration of the ozone layer but also play an important role in the fight against climate change. the previous regulation, drawn up nine years ago, had fallen behind the times and needed to be updated. simplifying the structure of the current regulation, removing obsolete provisions and adding the reporting obligation for new substances are reforms that were badly needed. i would like to warmly congratulate mr blokland on his work as rapporteur for this parliament. the compromise of the first reading, although democratically challenging, makes sense in a re-modelling of this kind, and the fact that it is reached is already a matter of the environment. the regulation now adopted brings the existing community provisions in line with the original provisions of the montreal protocol. for example, it is sensible and justified to bring forward the production of hcfcs by five years to 2020, and to reduce the number of exceptions to the export ban. it would be too difficult to justify the existence of too many exceptions to the export ban. the montreal protocol itself has been amended four times: the agreement, which was in force for 20 years, was amended in london, copenhagen, montreal and beijing. the agreement is not only a success story, but also a story of how mistakes must be corrected as understanding grows. we need the same wisdom now in the case of the kyoto protocol. the original protocol focused on the protection of the ozone layer by limiting mainly cfcs and quickly tightened the target to near zero. in this context, cfcs were replaced by, among others, hcfcs, which were much less hazardous to the ozone layer. but as is often the case in solving environmental problems, the problem has moved on to another area. hcfcs, or fluorinated gases, proved to be particularly harmful because of their high heating potential. some of them are over a thousand times more potent heaters than carbon dioxide. thus, it became necessary to correct the weak points in the agreement. a similar capacity to learn is needed in the case of the kyoto protocol. i must admit that as such it is not at all effective. it doesn't reduce global emissions, and it doesn't even reduce carbon intensity. perhaps the problem is that the authors of the kyoto protocol assumed that the co2 problem could be solved in the same way as the freon problem. climate change is a second-rate environmental problem. whereas ozone depletion was a problem caused by by-products of industrial or energy production, the cause of climate change is a factor that sustains the entire world economy and production. the world is still running on coal. therefore, climate change must be seen primarily as a problem of the productive economy. the focus of solutions must shift from limiting emissions to a comprehensive reform of energy and material production methods. let's learn from montreal.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr blokland on the good result. parliament succeeded in tightening the timetable for the removal of methyl bromide by four years, and the timetable for the reduction of hcfcs was also tightened. it is important that the eu continues to be a leader in the phase-out of ozone depleting substances, even though this issue is no longer in the headlines. many of these substances are potent greenhouse gases, but they are still excluded from the kyoto protocol. this is because it is thought that these substances will be regulated by the montreal protocol. it is important that we also remember to take care of this and continue to move towards the phase-out of high-intensity greenhouse gases and set an example for other countries, including developing countries. for substances whose use is prohibited in the eu, my group would have liked to see more explicit restrictions on exports than what has now been agreed. i hope that this principle will be incorporated into legislation when the next steps are taken.
mr president, the best way to improve europe's energy security is to increase energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. these investments must be made in all member states and they must start immediately, otherwise we will not be able to meet the objectives of the climate package we have ourselves adopted. these investments are also particularly appropriate at this time. investing in energy efficiency and renewable energy will create, as has been said here on several occasions, new sustainable jobs, but it will also lay the foundations for a low-carbon economy. now we need real action. unfortunately, the summit was unable to convince on this point. all in all, all the remedies for the economic crisis must be aimed at keeping global warming below the critical threshold. this must also be the result of the g20 meeting. when europe speaks with one voice, the united states will also join in this objective.
in writing. the eu summit decisions included changing the nature of the spring extraordinary summit on social dialogue so that eu leaders are represented by the three presidencies instead of all the member states. i think that this decision shows a lack of concern for the future of social europe which cannot be satisfactory to the social partners who are preparing for the meeting. it would be desirable for as many heads of state as possible to attend the meeting.
mr president, next week the president of the united states, president obama, will travel to europe on his first visit overseas to show his commitment towards a transatlantic alliance and dialogue. with his election as president, he brought hope and change, not only in the united states but for the whole world and also in europe. it is imperative that the eu set up networks of communication to keep a strong dialogue with the united states on many key issues, like the conflict in the middle east, the economic crisis and climate change. these issues are global problems and, therefore, they must be discussed with international cooperation, with the united states, the european union, european states, china, india and all the states in the world.
mr president, first of all i should like to say that i voted against the batzel report. i read it and wondered whether we were in the european union or in the soviet union, and i think we are in the european union. the starting point is that we cannot build this type of food price regulation on a pan-european basis. it is worth remembering that we must take care of quality, safe, good food. the principle of local food is important and can therefore be examined more closely at national level. i am concerned that the prices of inputs have risen. fertilizer and feed prices have gone up. the shop stepping stones are taking their toll, and so when, for example, a loaf of bread comes on the market, it costs three euros, leaving the primary producer, the farmer, with only about six cents. this is not the right direction and that is why we must reflect on these matters at national level and above all build a system in which farmers, food producers, can also live and in which citizens can obtain quality and healthy food at affordable prices. healthy food is what we need to bring to the forefront.
mr president, the transatlantic relationship is of great importance to us europeans. we must always remember that the united states, as the leading world power, shares the same values as the member states of the european union: democracy, human rights, freedom of expression, and i believe that these are the values that unite us and which i hope will strengthen our relations in the future. now that the united states has a new administration under president obama, it has received much attention and much expectation, but we must remember that even obama and his administration cannot change the whole world. they are certainly trying their best, but there are still big challenges ahead, so expectations must be realistic. but we in europe must extend a hand to the united states because we have common threats. the common threats are international terrorism, islamic fundamentalism, which is rising. we also have common challenges in environmental matters, and through transatlantic relations we can face together the challenges and problems which are currently acute throughout the world.
mr president, this report by mr lambrinidis on strengthening security and fundamental freedoms on the internet is a very important and topical subject. i share the view that it is important to preserve freedom of expression. it's one of our basic rights, one of our basic freedoms. but we must always remember that when we talk about freedom of expression, it also implies responsibility. the most important issue in this case is responsibility. when we look at the internet sites today, we have to say, unfortunately, that there is a lot of the type of material that is not good for humanity, for human development. i am particularly concerned about children and young people, who are our most valuable asset, our most valuable asset for the future. they need to be looked after now, and we need to act in such a way that they can have the best possible information and skills and attitudes, and the internet is one of the key sources of information for them. i therefore hope that we can increase the safety of children by adding to the internet material which could encourage, educate and develop, and not as it is today, where there is unfortunately a great deal of material which is detrimental to the healthy development of the whole personality of young people.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the rapporteur is quite right in saying that the eu must be able to speak with one voice on important issues concerning russia. unfortunately, the russian leadership now seems to regard relations with third countries as a zero-sum game. put simply: if i don't kick your ass, you're gonna kick my ass. a deeper cooperation between the eu and russia would in fact be a win-win situation, which we must make the russian leaders realise. the serious economic crisis in russia risks further weakening the leaders' attitude towards close cooperation with the eu. it is therefore particularly important that the eu can speak with one voice. the times the eu has spoken out loud and the russian leaders have stood by. the georgian conflict, the gas crisis between russia and ukraine at the beginning of the year and the provocations surrounding the bronze soldier statue in estonia show that a united eu can change the minds of russian leaders.
in writing. the equality directive, when implemented, will be one of the most important successes of this parliamentary term for a social and human europe. in addition to active discrimination, legislation on passive discrimination will have a huge impact on the lives of many eu citizens, as it affects all groups of people and all grounds of discrimination. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. in finland, as elsewhere in europe, discrimination in one form or another makes life difficult for many people. in today's society of human rights and equality, this should not be possible, but everyone should have an equal opportunity to participate in society. non-discrimination is the mark of a civilized society it is particularly important that the directive covers all grounds of discrimination. although there are wide differences between groups and individuals who experience discrimination, discrimination as a phenomenon must be addressed in a consistent manner, without differentiating between different groups. a fragmented approach would inevitably make different grounds for discrimination unequal and also create gaps into which people who are discriminated against on many grounds, for example, risk falling.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their excellent preparation. the proposed changes to the structural funds regulations will speed up the use of funds and simplify the rules and are indeed to be welcomed. this will ensure that the structural funds can be used for recovery and to counter the negative economic and employment effects of the recession. this is also a good start for the reform of the eu's structural and regional policy, which should aim at simplifying and speeding up procedures and at greatly increasing flexibility and income security. while reducing red tape and increasing the guarantee of results, union provisions must ensure that member states also move in the same direction. the regions and local actors must be given more power and the oppressive control of central government must be reduced.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? the community code on visas aims to unify and clarify the visa procedure throughout the schengen area. the visa applicant shall be treated equally, regardless of the schengen country consulate to which he or she applies. good administrative practices and human dignity shall be ensured and the entry of bona fide travellers shall be facilitated. rules on the introduction of fingerprinting requirements for visa holders and on the possibility of outsourcing the reception and processing of visa applications have already been approved in a separate report submitted by baroness sarah ludford. these rules have been incorporated into the community code as an integral part of it. thank you, sarah, for your close cooperation. this draft law shall be decided by the co-decision procedure between parliament and the council. after almost three years of work and intensive negotiations with the council, i am pleased to be able to present as rapporteur a compromise proposal which the council has accepted and which i hope parliament will accept. i would like to thank in particular the shadow rapporteurs eva klamt, michael cashman, tatjana ždanoka and sylvia-yvonne kaufmann for their very good cooperation and strong support in the negotiations. without the support of a unanimous committee, parliament would not have achieved such a good result in the negotiations. i would also like to thank the commission for presenting a sound initial proposal which it was pleased to develop further. i would also like to thank the french and czech presidencies for their willingness to acknowledge the problems which parliament wanted to address and their ability to meet parliament. the commission's proposals were the basis for all the compromises, and they were improvements over the present situation, and the most difficult questions were resolved before christmas with the french presidency. the whole process of preparation and negotiation would of course never have been successful without the excellent work done by my own and my colleagues' skilled staff, the committee secretariat and the political group officials. i would like to thank them very warmly. the three main results we achieved were, firstly, that multiple-entry visas can and should be issued when certain agreed criteria are met; secondly, that member states have committed themselves to concluding representation agreements so that the visa applicant does not have to make disproportionately difficult journeys to reach a competent schengen consulate; and thirdly, that a common website should be set up to create a uniform image of the schengen area and provide information on the rules applicable to the granting of visas. the failure to reduce the visa fee from eur 60 to eur 35 is a disappointment. however, it is alleviated by the fact that, for example, children under the age of six and persons under the age of 25 who represent organisations in seminars, sports activities or cultural events receive their visas free of charge. i would like to conclude by saying that this reform introduces two instruments which will be of great importance if the uniform application of the schengen rules is to become a reality: firstly, the visa information system, which is a database covering all schengen countries and which provides the consulate with real-time information on who has applied for a visa, who has been granted a visa, who has had their application rejected and which visas have been revoked, and secondly, further institutionalized local cooperation between schengen consulates in different countries.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the european union has an ethical obligation to ensure that everyone, including immigrant children, has the right to a good education. every child shall have the right to education, which shall be free and compulsory at least at primary level. children must have access to education which promotes their general education and gives them equal opportunities to develop their faculties of individual judgment and moral and social responsibility so that they may grow up to be balanced and responsible members of society. those responsible for the education and guidance of children shall have as a guiding principle the best interests of the child. of course, the primary responsibility for this is on the parents and the home, but schools and society must also support the home's educational work and thereby strengthen the integration of the pupils' whole personalities. i have been concerned about the studies that have been published recently on immigrant children. they say that in some places their schooling has been very difficult, and in some societies there have been attempts to build schools for immigrant children only. this has led to families in that area moving their children away from the nearby school so that they do not have to be in the same school as the immigrant children. this is an unfortunate situation and has led to very low levels of education and learning outcomes for immigrant children and a very high turnover of teachers in these schools, which are heavily targeted at immigrant children. this is not a desirable development, but we must create the conditions for the best possible integration of immigrant children into society. we must also ensure that schools have adequate resources - i mean quantitative resources in terms of teachers and also financial resources - and we must ensure that teacher training and also teacher continuing training are developed. in order to provide a good and sustainable care for immigrant children, we need a comprehensive approach, we also need specific investments and additional resources for teacher training and the whole educational process. i know that this is a matter for each member state to decide, but we must also encourage the member states to do so through the european parliament, through the european union, through open coordination, because i believe that we all want immigrant children to be able to receive a good education and to be able to integrate into society, and thus avoid the deplorable trend of exclusion which is currently seen in many immigrant children. it is true that this process of exclusion often leads to unemployment and also to crime and many other undesirable consequences. the free movement of labour within the european union is also a cause for concern when people living in the member states of the european union do not want to move to another country or work abroad because their children cannot get a proper and good education and quality education there. this is why we must also pay attention to this and ensure that every child and young person in every member state of the european union has access to a high-quality education of an adequate standard. children and young people are our future, the most valuable asset we have. they are called 'today' and not 'tomorrow', and that is why i hope that in the european union we can share the common principle that every child has the right to a whole and secure tomorrow and a good education.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank both rapporteurs for their excellent work. i am very pleased that we are now getting a final legislative decision on both of these matters before the elections. as far as the eco-label is concerned, i believe that two principles are most important. firstly, the label is dynamic, i.e. its criteria are tightened up as knowledge, skills and technology develop and we produce ever better products for the environment. the second key point is that the label is only given to the best products for the environment. the chemical industry in particular has taken the line that the eco-label should be given to products which simply comply with current laws. for example, some time ago an effort was made to eco-label textiles containing fire-fighting chemicals that are already banned in electrical equipment. fortunately, this attempt was rejected at the time and now we have legislation that is clear on this matter. we have legislation whereby the consumer can have confidence that the product is free from, for example, carcinogenic or reproductive chemicals. the derogation may be granted only under strict criteria if there is no alternative in the product group concerned or if such a substance with adverse health effects is required for a product with significantly lower overall environmental impact than other products in the same product group. this is important for the credibility of the eco-mark. it is also important that the criteria for the label are dynamic, that is to say, that as more environmentally friendly products are made, the criteria are tightened up. the question of whether the eco-label should be extended to food was also an important topic of discussion. i am glad that a solution has now been found to avoid confusion among consumers between the eco-label and the organic label, organically produced food, i.e. that a feasibility study is carried out before the eco-label is applied to food. if and when the eco-label is extended to food, for example fish, in the future, it is important that the criteria cover not only the way the food is produced but also other environmental impacts, such as transport. the debate on the dynamics of the criteria, which is somewhat similar to that on the eco-label, has also been taking place on energy labelling. i think it is very important that both the eco-label and the energy label follow the same principle, that is to say that the criteria are tightened up as our knowledge and skills and technology improve.
in writing. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the community eco-label creates a common basis for its use, but this should not be an obstacle to other labels. i think it is important that the indigenous character of the product should be indicated and i deplore the commission's position in banning it in community-funded campaigns. for example, in local food, the indication of indigenousness is the best environmental signal.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work on this report. this is the important stage we're at now. we're on the right track, even though, as i said, nothing is enough today. we have a lot of work to do. smart meters, the energy system must be functional, it must be open and there must be real competition. these are the words we consider important, as are the rights of the consumer. energy poverty has become a major issue. the price of energy is rising, it is a costly commodity, and that is why the rights of the people must be protected. that is why energy is being made a public service in this legislative package, which shows from the point of view of my own group - the social democrats - that we are defending the interests of consumers and thus making the market as transparent as possible. we'll continue on this path, thank you. (applause) i would like to thank the
on behalf of the pse group mr president, the report on the prohibition of illegal logging, which was adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment, is balanced. while it is ambitious enough to ban illegal logging and the import and trade of products derived from it, it does not add to the bureaucracy of operators who are already doing their job well. smoking illegal logs is a must. illegal logging is a major cause of global deforestation, which, as noted here, is responsible for 20 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions and is a major cause of biodiversity loss. in addition to environmental problems, illegal logging weakens the competitiveness of legal operators in the forestry sector and causes significant revenue losses for governments. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lucas, for his work, which allows us to vote on a good basic proposal tomorrow.
madam president, i think that this package, which is part of the measures to deal with the financial crisis, is quite good with regard to solvency ii and the credit rating agencies and will result in good compromises and outcomes. however, when we look to the future, i would like to raise three issues. firstly, i would like to see the european union being more ambitious and active at global level. even though the g20 outcomes are steps in the right direction, they are still too modest and far from having a proper, global, convention-based regulation, both on funds and different financial instruments, and on regulation. secondly, when it comes to the de larosière report and our own actions, i think that the outcome of de larosière was rather good, especially when it comes to supervising and analysing the systematic risk at european level. but i would like to point out two pitfalls here. firstly, concerning micro-supervision: i do see that the proposed moral there, which would still be based very much on cooperation instead of a centralised european aspect, has very serious problems. secondly, from what we have already heard about the commission’s preparation concerning venture capital and hedge funds, there is much to be hoped for and expected from there. so, if we really want to be effective at this level globally, we will have to do our homework properly, and i would really like to see a better and more ambitious approach from the commission in this field.
mr president, i would first like to say that i think the záborská report is on the right track. it is very important that equality can be achieved in the various functions of parliament, both in the committees and in the delegations. it is also very important that when the lists of candidates for the european elections are drawn up, they too should be able to have an equal number of men and women as candidates. we need each other, and i hope that things will develop in such a way that we will one day reach a point where gender no longer plays as big a role as skill and expertise. the most important thing when parliament takes decisions is that we have competent and knowledgeable people, men and women, in the committees. this would give everyone a clear vision of a better future and of building a better europe through knowledge.
mr president, first of all i would like to say that the report by mr ivo beleti is a good one. it is very important to pay attention to the fact that we are in all respects, in transport and elsewhere, energy-friendly, energy-saving and efficient. this should also be the case for tyres. however, when we talk about transport and tyres in this particular report, it is important to remember that safety is the most important thing that should never be compromised. the right balance must be found in this matter. in the manufacture of tyres, energy efficiency must not be allowed to override safety, that is to say, in order to ensure and increase energy efficiency, we must ensure that safety is not compromised in any way, because it is precisely on motorways, on small roads, everywhere, that safety must be the first and foremost objective when we develop european transport.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr văleani, for his excellent report. it is very important that in the future we in europe should be able to achieve a common internal market in which prices for mobile telephony throughout europe can be reduced and harmonised. the problem at the moment is that when we move from one country to another, we often have to buy new connections, or if we do not buy a new connection, then we have to pay very large sums. it is important that, in the context of the free movement of people and labour and the creation of a common economic area - which should in fact already be operational at union level - a single system should also be established for mobile prices. it would be in the public interest. the european union must act in such a way that the interests of its citizens are given priority, and in this respect we can, if we wish, act in such a way that the cost of calls is reduced.
in writing. − i stress that this regulation is a much awaited and needed regulation. illegal logging is a problem that needs to be tackled effectively, not only for climate reasons but for environmental and social aspects as well. still, i had to vote against this today. the report from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) has lost its focus and has expanded the scope and duties beyond the original purpose. we need to ensure that, once the timber products are imported and cleared at the single market borders, they are presumably legal and thus there is no need to introduce additional disproportionate bureaucratic and financial burden on all operators within the eu. but the envi report provides for costly labelling, additional sustainability requirements, extends the definition of legality out of reach and places the burden of due diligence on all operators within the internal market. this regulation should combat illegal logging at the borders as was the original aim. but to affect all the operators in the internal market, the ones who are not using or distributing any illegally harvested timber, hence potentially impacting their competitiveness on the global markets, is certainly not the aim of this regulation and therefore cannot be supported.
for the alde group mr president, i would like to thank you for your contribution. first of all, i would like to thank mr søndergaard for his excellent report. the report on the council's discharge is quite long and thorough. it is also based on clear references to documents and the eu treaty. the hardest question is transparency. the council budget is only partly administrative, as a large proportion of the funds also goes to operational activities such as the common foreign and security policy. the council is very reluctant to discuss the implementation of the budget with the committee on budgetary control, and it is also unwilling to provide the requested documents. the european parliament, together with the council, is the authority responsible for the eu budget. it also has the task of monitoring the use of funds and the general implementation of the budget. i believe that it is precisely the lack of cooperation that has led the committee on budgetary control to propose a suspension of discharge rather than the supposed management of funds. the situation is difficult because good cooperation between parliament and the council is the lifeblood of a fruitful european policy. that's why my team is going to make a final decision tonight.
in writing. in a member state like finland, where geography and language are barriers for poor people to obtain health services outside the country's borders, such a directive could increase inequalities in access to services. only the rich can choose alternative services from other countries, and in doing so they are undermining the public health care system that is the safety net of the poor. public funds are being diverted to the foreign services of the wealthy. that is why i cannot support the adoption of the directive. it is also regrettable that the legal basis of the directive is the functioning of the internal market and not the rights of patients.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a big thank you to the rapporteur, mr csibil, for a very good job. the ecodesign directive is not one of those things that the media and the public are going to talk about, but it is really a very important issue, although i also share anders wijkman's view that the perspective should be broadened to include resource efficiency in general. all the studies that have analyzed the cost of climate protection show that by saving energy, we cut emissions faster and cheaper. by setting energy efficiency standards for equipment and products, we save significant amounts of energy without the need for citizens to go to the trouble of doing so. buildings are estimated to account for 36% of eu greenhouse gas emissions. all the studies i've seen show that improving the energy efficiency of buildings is one of the most cost-effective ways to protect the climate. we are now extending the scope of the ecodesign directive to include energy requirements for windows, walls and insulation in buildings, for example. it is right, and i think it is great that we did not let the lobbies of the chemical industry prevent this necessary decision. this directive will help us considerably to achieve the 20% energy saving target. another important means is energy labelling of equipment. it is pathetically stupid for the commission to try to abandon the a to g scale, which consumers have come to know and which has been copied in other parts of the world. i am pleased that this week the committee on industry, research and energy in the house took a strong stand in favour of maintaining the familiar scale from a to g and updating the criteria as technology evolves. i hope that the commission will finally take up the strong and clear view of this parliament.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the compromise reached in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the hamon report on the savings rate directives is a good and balanced one. it is not about preventing tax evasion and increasing transparency. parliament must be firm on this and we must harmonize, for example, the taxation systems for interest income from savings. we must get the last member states into the information exchange system. we need to uncover the bank secrecy that's too tight to fight tax havens. the g20 also made the elimination of tax havens one of its key objectives. parliament must set an example if we are to overcome the financial crisis and regain the confidence of the citizens. transparency in the banking sector must be ensured and this can only be achieved through the exchange of information.
in writing. the reform of the savings rate directive is an important part of the restructuring of the financial architecture and the rules of the game in the financial markets. the existing directive is hopelessly outdated. the directive is relatively easy to circumvent, for example by using as intermediaries investment companies which are not defined as paying agents in the directive and are therefore not obliged to participate in the exchange of information. it has also been possible to arrange portfolios so that income equivalent to interest income is excluded from the definition as a result of 'repackaging'. the reform is intended to remedy these problems. to solve the intermediary problem, the commission is extending the definition of a paying agent to cover, inter alia, foundations and funds. the directive is also intended to cover new innovative products, such as certain types of life insurance. the inclusion of other new products is much more difficult: unfortunately, it is extremely difficult to create definitions that allow the calculation of all income equivalent to interest income as interest payments, especially when the creation of new products is relatively easy. in this context, a broad examination of how best to regulate these products should be undertaken before they are incorporated into a directive. the commission is also expected to present a proposal for an amendment to the official assistance directive, which also includes a reform on the automatic exchange of information. it is also necessary to avoid tax evasion by including the three countries excluded from the current exchange of information by way of derogation belgium, luxembourg and austria in the system used by the others. the deadline proposed by the rapporteur, the year 2014, is strongly supported.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a big thank you to the rapporteur, mr schnellhardt, for his excellent work and good cooperation. it is great that we have had a very good expert on this subject to speak to us. the main objective of this regulation is to ensure hygiene and human health and safety. however, i now turn to another detail which is important for the protection of biodiversity and small-scale nature tourism in my own country. i am glad that political agreement has been reached within parliament and also with the council of ministers to resolve this issue. this is a small-scale activity where the carcasses of animals killed on farms, such as pigs, are taken directly to feeding grounds in the wild for wildlife. in spain, for example, this is important for maintaining the country's wild game bird population. in finland, for example, such activities saved the sea otter from extinction during the decades when its natural diet was too contaminated by chemical toxins and when eating only natural food would have prevented the sea otters from reproducing. in the northern, very sparsely populated parts of finland, nature photographers use this method to attract wildlife to the shoot, and small tourism companies also organize, for example, bear watching safaris. i am very pleased that we have found in this legislation a solution that protects human health and safety, but also small-scale tourism and the use of this means to protect biodiversity.
for the ppe-de group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the working time limit must not be extended to selfemployed workers and drivers, and fortunately both the commission and the council have come to this conclusion. in my own country, finland, a restriction on working hours would have a very negative impact on finnish entrepreneurs. the transport sector in finland is very small-business-oriented, with more than half of drivers owning only the car they drive. so they do everything themselves, take care of their own equipment, do their own bookkeeping. already, self-employed drivers are subject to the same driving time limits and rest periods as other drivers. this is important for security. the actual driving time would not be maintained, but if this green and socialist amendment were to come into force, drivers would not be able to take care of their luggage or their books in their spare time, for example. and how would such a rule be enforced? supporting employment and entrepreneurship is of paramount importance in times of economic crisis. i hope that my colleagues will join the commission and the transport council in keeping selfemployed drivers outside the directive's working time provisions.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank commissioner tajani, who has done an excellent job and in every excellent way in his speech just now, has made it clear that this is not about safety and driving hours, it is about working hours. we must respect the fact that there are small and mediumsized enterprises in europe that do their job and create jobs, and especially in this economic situation we must not hit these small entrepreneurs in the face. a few weeks ago there was a heated debate here about how small and mediumsized enterprises are the lifeblood of the european economy. the question now is whether or not they are supported. what commissioner tajani has said here is what we have to do and how we have to do it so that these transport companies can continue to operate after hours.
in writing. it is understandable that before the elections the eu tries to make gestures of goodwill to its citizens, but this time the commission is on the soft ice. when europe tries to ban or restrict the traditions of other democratic countries, goodwill may later strike its own toe. i look forward to the day when the united states or australia will wake up to the spanish bullfight or the finnish deer hunt. in my own country, finland, fishermen are catching a few hundred seals a year, as the sealing stock has exploded and is soon threatening the fish stocks of the baltic sea. the compromise reached with the council allows fishermen to continue as before, as long as they do not lose out. in principle, i am not in favour of laws that cannot be enforced, but at least a compromise is an improvement on the outcome of the committee's vote.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - mr president, commissioner, the report by the committee on agriculture is a compromise which takes account of the views of the various parties in a balanced way. the commission proposal has been amended in the same way as the itre committee. where alternative methods for the development of all medicinal products and vaccines are not available, animal testing shall be used. we have a responsibility to the citizens of the eu to ensure that our sick fellow citizens have hope that the medicines they need for their illnesses will be developed in europe too. at the same time, animal experimenters are obliged to treat their animals well and to cause as little pain as possible. the directive is a clear improvement in animal welfare and from the point of view of the itre committee many of the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture are the same or similar to those tabled by us. the report by the committee on agriculture should therefore be adopted with as few changes as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank in particular mr trautmann, of course, but also the other rapporteurs. i would like to thank commissioner reding in particular for his long and good cooperation, we have many commissioners, but as i said, you have been the first in our cooperation. we wanted to improve the position of groups for whom new technologies offer opportunities, but who can also be excluded from the information society if their rights are not respected, such as the elderly and the disabled. the rights of customers must be safeguarded so that unfair competition does not prevent the use of new services. the council finally accepted almost all our proposals on consumer protection, and that is a good thing. for more than ten years, ladies and gentlemen, we have been reforming the information society and, subsequently, the legislation governing the civil society. today we're going to conclude that internet access is a civil right. it must be protected and diversified. we've already decided that information is a citizen's right. the concern is that electronic communications reaching large audiences are increasingly superficial and downright mindless garbage. the objective of a civilised society is so demanding that the present contents do not make the transition. we are using the most brilliant technical tools to lead the masses of people into ignorance in an information society, into uncivilization in a civilized society. a bad book is a bad book, no matter how good the printing or how good the paper. crime is a crime on the internet, and trash is trash on the internet. so, what, the smart grids are producing stupidity? ladies and gentlemen, with this kind of content we are not really going to become the world's leading knowledge-based economy or society. we simply don't have the information. i would like to ask the commissioner what could be done now that the instruments are ready and very effective, in order to raise the quality of content to the level of the civilised society.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr podimata, very warmly for the excellent work he has done, which i fully support. the itre committee has supported clear, illustrative energy labelling for consumers, which i want to maintain and which the committee supports. it is important that the consumer can always rely on the fact that the category a appliance corresponds at all times to the best technology, the most energy-efficient technology available on the market. the eu energy label has been a success, having already removed the most energy-intensive appliances from the market and has been followed in brazil, china, argentina, iran, israel and south africa, among others. it is very regrettable that the manufacturers of appliances now want to turn this successful and clear label into a vague category and that the commission is inclined to support this. the new model, driven by the equipment manufacturers, would be that we would continually call a decades-old record in sports a world record, and then when new, better records are made, we would call them a world record minus five percent, a world record minus ten percent, a world record minus twenty percent, and so on. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but we should be able to do it.
in writing. it is astonishing, indeed inexcusable, that the eu social summit and the social dialogue take place at the level of the troika, without heads of state. it shows the lack of interest of eu leaders in developing the social dimension. it shows that we are far from the objective of developing the union as a people's europe. the banks are being bailed out by the nationalising of their debts, but the social welfare of the people is not being taken into account.
in writing. it is great that the commission's 5 billion additional rescue package, promised at the beginning of the economic crisis, has finally been approved. the rescue money is needed urgently and i think the priorities chosen by the commission to support energy and rural areas - in particular the development of broadband networks - are welcome. the 100 million allocated to the estlink 2 submarine cable project is particularly relevant for finland. it is great that the estlink project has remained on the list at the same amount from the very beginning of the commission's proposal. the emphasis on energy auditing is particularly regrettable: the commission's original idea of not supporting only electricity lines, carbon capture and storage (ccs) and offshore wind projects has changed along the way. of course, the power lines and the offshore wind have earned their extra money. the excessive emphasis on carbon capture and storage, on the other hand, is unfathomable, especially when it is promised significant funding from emissions trading revenues. in addition to wind power, other renewable energy projects should have had an equal right to apply for additional recovery funds. instead of investing in the uncertain ccs technology, the emphasis should be on renewable energy sources. in particular, various solar projects would have been eligible for funding. the package included a statement that any unused funds could be directed to projects promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. in the commission's original plans, funds would have been earmarked for energy efficiency rather than for possible cuts. it is also very regrettable that the originally planned 'smart cities' section was ultimately left out of the recovery package.
mr president, the lisbon treaty is fundamentally reforming the eu's budgetary procedure. the multiannual financial framework will become mandatory, the classification of expenditure as compulsory and non-compulsory will be abolished and the budgetary procedure will be shortened. i am in favour of a five-year financial framework to be aligned with the terms of office of the european parliament and the commission. it brings efficiency to the work and allows the institutions to create their own strategy. it's gonna be hard to budget for this. one might even wonder who could have devised such a complex system. until now it has been clear which institution decides the final figures for the budget. now every detail must be agreed, which may require very intensive negotiations in the conciliation committee. for parliament, the new procedure requires a strengthening of the human resources available. otherwise, it will not be able to exercise its full powers in budgetary matters in general and in eu administration in particular. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, and in particular catherine guy-quint, for the excellent reports and, more generally, for the good cooperation over the years.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the history of asbestos is a sad and warning example of what can happen when the precautionary principle is not respected. asbestos was introduced as a material of excellent technical properties and was later found to kill people. for example, in my own country the number of deaths caused by asbestos each year has still not decreased. it can take up to 40 years for the disease to develop. the resolution under discussion is not intended to overturn the comitology resolution to which it refers, but its main points are, in my view, paragraphs 8 and 9, namely that the commission should make a legislative proposal within the year on how to completely eliminate asbestos and asbestos fibres and the equipment and structures containing them. we still have a large number of houses, including public buildings, ships, factories and power stations, with asbestos-containing structures, and people are exposed to asbestos, for example, during the renovation of buildings, if strict protective measures are not taken. these asbestos-containing structures should be mapped and dismantled, and the asbestos should be disposed of safely in a manner that does not re-expose people. the sad story and experience of asbestos must also be taken as a lesson in the face of new health risks that are now emerging. for example, researchers have found that carbon nanotubes have health effects very similar to those of asbestos. we must therefore learn from this experience and act in accordance with the precautionary principle, for example when adopting legislation on nanomaterials.
i would like to say, mr president, that i voted in favour of the ruth hieronymus report. i would also like to thank mr hieronyme for his excellent work in the committee on culture and education on these audiovisual matters. i know that he is leaving parliament and this was his last report to us in the european parliament for the time being. it is very important that the audiovisual part of the media mundus programme be extended to include third countries, i.e. african countries, and that cooperation be extended. this is also an excellent way of talking about development cooperation and encouraging these countries to live better, to develop better. in this way we also bear an ethical responsibility as it belongs to the peoples of africa. but above all, this speech is my thanks to ruth hieronym for her brilliant work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sweden has traditionally respected human rights and democracy. the swedish people once voted against the euro, and you have respected that decision, even though you were the ones who pushed it so hard. it is therefore a little strange that the irish people are now having to vote again in a hurry on the exact same agreement. the nordic and swedish way is to respect the people's voice. i wish you luck and success in this challenge you now face. i hope you will respect the values of the best nordic democracy - not by force, but by cooperation. i am very pleased that you have mentioned the baltic sea and i support you fully in this. the baltic sea is in trouble, it's terminally ill, it needs saving. but the northern dimension was missing, and i hope you'll do a lot to help, even if you didn't mention it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sweden now has a huge responsibility for the future of mankind. prime minister reinfeldt, you were right about the climate crisis. we know that the technology we need for the next few decades is available, and at a reasonable price, but the hard part is that climate protection is an unprecedented challenge to humanity's ability to cooperate. unfortunately, the current negotiations are more like a combination of blind-side play and competition for the top spot. the european union must now have the courage to propose not just its own emissions reductions but a burden-sharing principle whereby all industrialized countries implement the ipcc emission reductions. the most important thing is that we achieve the emission reduction targets for 2020. secondly, it must be understood that developing countries will not be able to adapt to adequate emission limits without our new level of financial support, and the eu must also be able to make proposals on this.
mr president, i would like to join my estonian colleague, mr siiri oviir, in saying that the economic crisis is far from over. there is a strange optimism all over europe, even though unemployment is rising, national economies are getting into debt, the population is aging, some kind of triple guillotine is over europe, and yet the recession has been declared over. we'll work out an exit strategy and how to end the resuscitation. europe started very well and exemplary in its recovery and in its handling of the economic crisis, so much so that the united states learned from europe and took lessons from europe, but since then europe has frozen. and now this false optimism is also leading to the wrong solution. the economic crisis has not been overcome.
mr president, the past year has been one of the saddest on the subject of forest fires. we have lost hundreds of thousands of hectares of forest, particularly in the mediterranean region. speculation about the causes of forest fires is raging, and the consequences of fires are unfortunately well known. it has been argued that climate change is causing an increase in forest fires and that europe too must prepare for longer forest fire seasons instead of the normal summer-september period. summers start earlier, are hotter and drier, especially in the south, and the risk of fires increases. it is true that, exceptionally, as early as march this year, north-western spain and portugal suffered from severe forest fires. the conditions for forest fires are thus favourable, but the problem is not the change in natural conditions that is taking place. environmental scientists have found that the main explanation for forest fires in the eu, australia and california is socioeconomic. a direct link to climate change cannot yet be demonstrated. the key factors in forest fires are construction and settlement pressure, cultivation, certain planted plant and tree species, lack of prevention and education, and the negligence of the authorities. for example, the inadequacy of the fire brigades and their inability to detect and prevent possible crimes as the cause of fires are behind the tragedies of this summer as well. mr president, natural conditions will change with climate change, that is a fact. but that does not explain the origin of environmental disasters, especially if the same phenomena are repeated every few years, for we may require better preparation. it is time for the member states, under the union's leadership, to look in the mirror, because forest fires will be our own business in the future. adapting to a changing environment is one thing, but adapting to bad practices and unpreparedness is another. (applause) i would like to thank the
i would like to add my support to the speeches made here, mr president, in which it was stated that prevention of damage is always more cost-effective than remediation. the bulk of this funding should be directed to preventing fires and floods in southern europe. in addition to satellite monitoring, a similar system for forest fire alarm and control is needed, which has been successfully operating in finland for decades. in addition, it is essential at national level to ensure that, among other things, the level of equipment of fire departments is sufficient to bring fires under control at the earliest possible stage. mr president, the increase in floods is largely due to climate change, and the best way to prevent it is to get a proper agreement at the copenhagen meeting. but national action can also contribute to flood prevention. the right forestry policy must be adopted, mountain forests must be protected, forests with the right tree species must be planted so that their roots are able to bind the water and stop the water from flowing too fast. for each river, flood barriers and reservoirs must also be built and paths dug for more effective flood control. it must be acknowledged that these matters are very much the responsibility of each member state. the eu cannot take responsibility for the cases covered by national decisions and the omissions made in them. the solidarity fund is first and foremost an emergency aid and i expect the various member states to be prepared to invest in a long-term forestry policy, fire prevention and flood protection.
in his previous speech, mr president, mr martin said that it was of the utmost importance, particularly in the present economic crisis, to reach agreements that would boost economic growth and employment and remove barriers to trade in general. however, it should be remembered that we have just had a very serious discussion here today on the crisis in the european automobile industry and this week we are also dealing with the problems of the textile industry and the aid from the globalisation fund to spain and portugal for the large redundancies in that sector. so, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, we must take seriously the concern of the european people about how we respond to this loss of jobs in europe and what the commission's remedies are, although in general terms free trade is certainly good for employment and economic growth, but how we prevent the loss of jobs in these traditional sectors in europe.
mr president, it is of the utmost importance that europe shows moral leadership at this stage and that the member states stick to all their commitments and also to these millennium development goals. we are suffering from relative poverty in this economic recession, but we must remember that in the developing world there is absolute poverty, where people are dying of hunger and disease. however, more than 10 member states in the union have indicated that they are cutting development cooperation funds or slowing down their rate of withdrawal. of course, it must be remembered that as important as it is to increase resources, it is also important to ensure that they are used more efficiently. there are already various tools for coordinating this aid, such as the odamoz computer programme, which has been tested very successfully in mozambique, and i hope that special efforts will be made to coordinate this aid. it is very easy for us to improve efficiency in this way in a situation where aid is being reduced.
mr president, mr president barroso, you visited our eu-critical group and we value it. there was time for discussion, there were tough questions from people like me. but the fact that there's only one candidate doesn't please me. and if we do not accept you now, will we then have the same fate as ireland, where in a few months' time mr barroso will come in a different tie and then we will vote again on the same issue? you like the commission, i have read this paper very carefully. you say that the commission is irreplaceable, that only the commission has the power to make proposals which take account of the interests of all citizens, and that only the commission has the authority and the independence. where are the peoples of europe, ladies and gentlemen? where are the european parliaments, where are the european voters? they're the ones who are supposed to keep this union going. i don't really believe in it, though. mr barroso, defend the worker, defend the workers, because the tired left can no longer do it. stand up for small business owners, we don't have a shortage of labor, we have a shortage of employers. do good work from the bottom up, so that people can get jobs and so we can move forward in europe. and, mr president barroso, no eu tax, we have enough taxes already. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, commission president and mr barroso, i think you have done a very good job as president of the commission. it's easy to criticize, but i have to give you a little credit. to lead 27 different countries in a pluralistic europe is a challenging task and you have done it well. you have been a balancing factor between large and small countries, so in this context it is easy for me to quote the chairman of my party, finnish prime minister matti vanhan, who said that you deserve an extension of your term. i am very much in favour of your extension and i will be voting in favour of it. your actions over the past five years speak for themselves. i do not think that we need to present any more programmes, because the deeds speak for themselves, and i hope that in the future commission, finnish commissioner olli rehn will also have a good and strong position. but above all, tomorrow we will vote in favour of your being allowed to set up a new commission. good luck with that job!
in writing. mr president, the market economy is a good thing, but a bad thing. although lately, the roles have been pretty mixed up. it's customary to speak longer in public meetings, but now we need action, and fast. the world now has a historic opportunity to renegotiate the global economic order at the g20 in pittsburgh. there's been a lot of talk in the papers about bankers' bonuses, but they're just the tip of the iceberg. the global economy needs a complete overhaul, and the key word is resilience. our daughter was looking to move away from the venture economy and into the real economy. only binding national laws can guarantee that the casino industry will not be repeated in recent years. in future, the taxpayer must not be made to pay for the damage. with mechanisms like wealth taxes, there's always the risk that someone is a free rider in the global economy. but i think we should at least examine their validity.
in writing. this monday had the dubious honor of being a kind of anniversary: exactly one year ago, the investment bank lehman brothers collapsed. the crash is seen as the real trigger for the current deep global recession and financial crisis. on the eve of the anniversary and the upcoming g20 summit in pittsburgh, it is worth pausing to reflect on what has been learned from the crisis and what can still be learned from it. i see the opportunity that emerges from the crisis as central: the opportunity to fundamentally reshape the international financial architecture. steps have already been taken toward this. the g20 meeting was the last to provide a good basis for action, and it set the tone for the global consensus on the action needed. the united states has just recently published a comprehensive package of financial legislation. the eu commission is expected to present a constructive proposal on the european financial architecture and supervision next week. the key word is globalization. we must have internationally binding rules on the reform of the imf, on the solvency rules and on the reform of the rules of the game for the payment of options. the regulation of all financial products must be flexible enough to respond to a constantly changing and newly emerging market. in the midst of a crisis that is destroying people's basic security, livelihoods and well-being, it is also constructive to consider new ways of measuring wealth. the recently published final conclusions of the commission set up by president sarkozy recommend a shift from a gdp-based measure of wealth to new types of measurement that take account in particular of the capacity of economic activity in society to safeguard the well-being of citizens and the sustainability of the environment.
for the alde group mr president, my group is very pleased that the commission has drawn up the first eu baltic sea strategy paper. this is also the first such strategy paper in the region and is expected to give a boost to the clean-up of the baltic sea, which is particularly depleted. the problems of the region are best solved by cooperation between the people, states, associations and businesses of the baltic sea region. my group is particularly pleased that sweden has brought the fight against trafficking and crime to the fore. i would like to thank cecilia malmström in particular for this, because i think her pen print is also on this. this is an important issue, and it is rather strange that in 2009 we have to talk about human trafficking in the baltic sea region. the baltic sea action plan to end human trafficking is now needed.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is excellent that the commission has drawn up a proposal for a baltic sea strategy and that sweden has included it on its agenda. i hope that sweden will give greater concrete expression to the protection of the marine environment, above all in the fields of agriculture and shipping. the baltic sea is one of the most polluted seas in the world, and the biggest environmental problem is pollution. the main cause is agriculture, i.e. nitrogen and phosphorus from the eu's fields. they take oxygen from the ocean floor and feed on toxic algae on the surface. whether the baltic sea is cleaned up is largely in the hands of the eu. the commission recognises this in its strategy, but the proposals for action remain vague. the only action that is almost specific is the ban on phosphates in detergents. it is necessary, but we also urgently need new rules for agriculture so that we can produce food without choking the baltic sea.
mr president, the european union woke up rather late to the baltic sea, on whose shores 100 million people live, plus russia, which is important. this strategy has a strong environmental dimension, and rightly so, because the environmental problems of the baltic sea are truly enormous: overfishing, the loss of biodiversity, st petersburg's waste water, the kaliningrad problem and so on. we have been talking here about the fact that this will also change the cohesion policy of the european union, and i think this is a rather important point, and i hope that more will be said about it here. minister malmström explains how this is changing, because the change in cohesion policy entails the danger that when we talk about the danube strategy, the black sea strategy, for example, we are leaving out parts of europe, including the northern regions, and in fact the arctic is currently undergoing a rapid change in the world, and this is important to note.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, the baltic sea is a special region in many ways, and i am therefore very pleased that the swedish presidency has made this strategy one of the priorities of its presidency. it is important that we get the strategy moving forward and thereby also implemented. in addition to the fact that the baltic sea issue has a strong environmental dimension, i also see a strong regional policy impact. sweden has also linked these regional policy issues strongly in this baltic sea strategy during its presidency. the strategy is intended primarily as a paper on coastal states and their coastal areas, but it does have a strong regional dimension. the way in which we link environmental technology expertise, inland water issues and its considerable impact on transport policy to this strategy will also have a strong impact on inland areas. the baltic sea strategy must therefore be integrated into the common european agenda. i hope that parliament will give us strong support so that the strategy does not remain a mere slogan but that we also achieve something concrete.
i would like to thank the commission and the swedish government for their very active role and i see that the baltic sea strategy is good and important, but without proper funding the project will not succeed. in that case, this will all end once the strategy is approved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is the means, the instrument, in which to invest the countless projects which the implementation of the baltic sea strategy now requires. i know that there are now proposals in the committee on budgets to put some money into this item, and i hope that the council and the commission can also support this, because otherwise the project will not really succeed. the second thing we need if we want to save the environment of the baltic sea is that we have to engage russia strongly in this. i have found it incomprehensible that some people have been prepared to accept a gas pipeline to the baltic sea without even obliging russia to commit itself to the conclusions of the espoo agreement. it's the least we can do.
in writing. mr president, i thank the swedish presidency of the eu for having the courage to include its own region, the baltic sea, and related issues as a major theme in the programme of its eu presidency. it is appropriate that we should spend a lot of time preparing the maritime strategy now; there is no time to waste. the central objective of the baltic sea strategy and action programme, namely to improve the region's competitiveness and environmental performance, must be taken seriously, both in terms of the funding allocated to it and the measures to be implemented. the objectives must be implemented in a coherent way, so that the strategy is not just a solemn declaration. the strategy is expected to accelerate the clean-up of the baltic sea, which is particularly polluted, and to contribute to the identification of common solutions to cross-border challenges. it is precisely for these reasons that the attention is now being focused on finland, where the question of whether to allow the construction of the nord stream gas pipeline in its territorial waters will soon be decided. the environmental impact of projects such as this will be assessed by a legally binding procedure in accordance with the baltic sea strategy, which means that the matter cannot be avoided by a simple appeal. it is therefore necessary to require that venj ratifies the espoo convention on the assessment of transboundary environmental impacts, which it signed in 1991, and that the finnish government make the issue of a permit for the construction of the pipeline a condition of its ratification. venj, whose interests are in the maritime strategy, will only act on the agreement when it suits him. i cannot go on, the stakes are too high and we must get the road to projects that are harmful to the baltic before it is too late.
in writing. - mr president, in the debate on monday on the summer 2009 forest fires, i said that natural conditions will change with climate change; that is an undeniable fact. but it does not explain the origin of environmental disasters, especially if the same phenomena occur every few years. we can and must require better preparation. that is why i had to vote against my own group's position today on five amendments, and to be honest, i am very surprised by that position. the time has come for the member states to look in the mirror, with the union at the helm. it is quite right to say that the damage caused by forest fires could have been prevented if some member states had developed and implemented more effective preventive measures and more effectively prevented criminal activity in order to acquire additional land for construction. our political environment must not be one in which we turn a blind eye to the facts. this is of no benefit to anyone, especially when it comes to the scale of human tragedy caused by forest fires. climate change has been cited as one of the reasons for the increase in forest fires, and it is true that europe too must prepare for longer forest fire seasons instead of the normal summer-september period. summers start earlier, are hotter and drier, especially in the south, and the risk of fires increases. but the problem of fires is not the result of the changing nature of the environment. adapting to a changing environment is one thing, but adapting to bad practices and unpreparedness is another.
for the verts/ale group mr president, there are certainly better conditions for entering into a partnership and cooperation agreement with tajikistan than, for example, with uzbekistan and turkmenistan, which are indeed full-fledged dictatorships. but tajikistan is on a much better path, and the european union has a say in the matter with this agreement. it was pleasing to hear, both on behalf of the council and the commission, that cooperation will focus on human rights and democracy and will seek to promote the development of the rule of law. it was also very good to hear that the institution of the ombudsman has been established in tajikistan, which is a very important instrument in many countries, and that the european union should give full support to this new institution. mr president, i would like to come back to the question of water resources. the european union could help tajikistan to exploit its rich water resources in a rational and democratic way, taking into account the interests of the countries downstream, which could potentially suffer from large hydropower plants. the greens also want to stress the importance of regional cooperation in order to revive the regional economy of central asia.
mr commissioner, you mentioned that the restoration of the quota system is no longer an option. we have seen what has happened in the milk sector since the commission decided in the spring to phase out these quotas. it was a very bad decision, and it was short-sighted. the complete abolition of quotas will be a death knell for many small farms. is this the policy that the commission wants to pursue? the fact is that we need a restrictive system for the dairy sector. if the quotas are not in question, i would urge you, commissioner, to propose other solutions to the crisis. this is a european crisis and we must have an agricultural policy which guarantees at least a decent standard of living for farmers, regardless of country or region.
in writing. mr president! the situation in the dairy sector has deteriorated dramatically in the last year. the producer price of milk has fallen and at the moment many milk producers are already selling their milk products at a price which does not correspond to the cost of production. the sustainability of dairy farmers is now seriously threatened. mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission's actions so far have not been able to resolve the milk crisis. it's time to get out of the sleeve and make some new decisions. the commission must quickly stabilise the situation on the european milk market. at the same time, it will have to draw up, in conjunction with the dairy operators and the member states, a thorough assessment of the future of the dairy sector. thank you!
mr president, on 8 august taiwan was faced with a major humanitarian emergency. the casualties were enormous, the economic damage was immense. it is time for us to help, it is time for us to show solidarity with the people of taiwan. we must show compassion, but in addition to compassion we must give financial support and, as the commission representative has said here, we must now put in place crisis management instruments. the taiwanese must now be given all the help humanly possible. i also want to support the idea put forward by mr tannock of extending the support to taiwan in order to achieve the best possible result and to show that they are also human beings and above all our friends.
the author. - mr president, we should actually be here to celebrate a moment of remembrance and light a candle in memory of the human rights activists recently murdered in the north caucasus. we must remember that natalia estemirova, zarema zadulaeva and ali zabrailov and many others who have suffered and lost their lives defending human rights deserve our full support. unfortunately, we were not able to provide them with the support they needed during their lifetime. it is alarming that russia has failed to carry out adequate criminal investigations to the standard required to identify these murders and bring the perpetrators to justice. i have noted that the european union has written to russia on this matter. but it is clear that our efforts are not enough and we must seriously consider how we can make the rule of law work in russia, how we can bring this issue much more seriously to the fore when negotiating a new cooperation and partnership agreement with russia. we must also consider how we can better support russian human rights defenders. we should consider whether we can offer protection to people in danger, whether the eu institutions can quickly arrange visas for them so that they can flee russia, where they are and where their lives are in danger. the greens believe that it would be important to have such a centre in the european parliament, which would provide information on the situation of human rights defenders in danger and seek to help them in conjunction with the other institutions. there's so much we can do. anna politkovskaya said when she was alive, "the west can do so much, but the west does so little". (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, your mother tongue is so beautiful that i decided to try to say thank you in hungarian: kösönöm. mr tavares, i would like to respond to your comments. the work on human rights is not just a concern of the left, it is also a concern of us on the centre-right, and this should encourage us to cooperate. mr ernst drew attention to the right point. we are discussing this here when most of the members in the house are already on their way home, and we must work together to get this really into the heart of the political action. i have previously been a member of the committee on foreign affairs and, when the committee on human rights was set up, i was a member of that committee too. when i made amendments, i sometimes left them with the committee on foreign affairs and my colleagues said that why do you make these human rights amendments here, since we have a subcommittee on human rights for that. i thought then that something was amiss if our committee on human rights became a ghetto or a backwater for dealing with these matters. let's work together to make sure that doesn't happen to human rights.
the author. - mr president, i would like to comment on this recent debate by saying that, as chairman of the subcommittee on human rights, i have recently sent a letter to the conference of presidents asking them to consider postponing these debates so that parliament can be in full session and so that the council can also be here to debate better. i hope that the various groups will discuss this matter with their group chairmen, because the credibility of this parliament is constantly undermined by the fact that we are so few here. now, the case of zhovtis. kazakhstan is an important country in central asia and will be chairing the osce next year. it is therefore now of no consequence whatsoever how crimes are punished in a state which will be the leader of the democratic efforts of all states in the vast area of europe. this is why the case of human rights defender yevgeny zhovtis deserves attention. he has been found guilty of manslaughter in very unclear circumstances and sentenced to four years in open prison after he drove his car into a pedestrian in july this year. it must be borne in mind that the question has also been raised in the context of the osce as to whether the procedure to which mr zhovtis has been subject may have infringed the principle of a fair trial guaranteed by the constitution of kazakhstan. the european parliament should also bring this debate to the attention of the council and the commission, so that they will take up this case and demand that a fair trial be held. mr president, the european parliament can make a significant contribution to the strengthening of the rule of law in the central asian countries by maintaining these individual cases, and the case of yevgeny zhovtis is undoubtedly one of them.
mr president, kazakhstan plays an important security and economic role in central asia and its cooperation with the eu has increased. we were pleased to hear that the kazakh foreign minister, mr maradtazin, promised the osce presidency last year and again in may this year, with the promise of improvements in the human rights situation in the country. despite the international attention, however, the control of the media has been tightened and the level of religious freedom is low, and we have heard of numerous arbitrary arrests of human rights activists. the conviction of human rights activist yevgeny zhovtis also raises questions and it is in the interest of the government of kazakhstan that these doubts be clarified and it is also in the undisputed interest of the future osce period. we're just hoping for the best and for things to work out.
the author. - mr president, i am pleased that we have the courage to bring the human rights situation in syria to the forefront at this time. the eu-syria association agreement on mediterranean cooperation is being finalised and, as one of the pillars of cooperation is the promotion of human rights and democracy, i believe that the eu should be more vocal in calling for improvements in this area. it is not enough to concentrate cooperation on improving the economic situation alone. as we have heard, the leading syrian human rights lawyer muhannad al-hassani has been detained at the end of july without a proper trial. he was convicted of undermining national sentiment and spreading false news. this isn't the first case of its kind. we last raised this in parliament in 2007. the kamal abwani we defended at the time is still in prison, even though a un investigation team concluded in march that this was an arbitrary arrest. syria has a lot of room for improvement in terms of freedom of expression and assembly. the ngo activity in the country is difficult and thus almost non-existent. it is very sad that we in the eu do not have the courage to set clear criteria as a basis for cooperation with syria. i believe that it is our duty to demand the release of political prisoners and the respect of international human rights conventions before we can proceed with the eu-syria association agreement. human rights in the world are not a bunch of isolated islands, but rather a patchwork of things where everything affects everything and the tolerance and the overlooking of negligence elsewhere will eventually erode our own rights here. our important task is to preserve and supervise their implementation at all times and in all places. it's the only way we're gonna make a human life worth living.
mr president, i spent my childhood and youth in a communist dictatorship next to the soviet union, and fear was present. that was little finland. we were on our own. now i am shocked that the european union only allows one outcome. we can have different opinions, we can even disagree, we can even be eurosceptic, but the result must be the same. if you win by the wrong means, you've already lost. let's remember the hand painting by diego maradona at the soccer stadium. who remembers the match between argentina and england, what was the result? let's remember that we won the fight the wrong way. look where maradona is now, after winning the wrong way. finally, i would like to say to the swedish presidency that you have still respected the decision of the swedish people when they voted no to the euro. you didn't bring it up for reconsideration a year, two years, not even five years later. this was delivered a year later. this is european democracy, and it will be paid what it deserves.
mr president, i too have lived and still live in a small country. i would like to ask mr soin whether, in this particular case, ireland has not shown the great power of a small country, because it has brought almost all of europe to its knees. now, after a long debate, little ireland, like little finland, has asked for protection from the european union and wants to contribute to strengthening the european union. is it not true that the european union and the lisbon treaty are the security of a small country?
mr president, this is a bad agreement for small countries. the votes of ireland are falling, the votes of denmark are falling and the votes of finland are falling in the council of ministers. the power of the great powers is rising. i love ireland. i've been there 20 times. i converted to catholicism in ireland. that's not the point. i'm just sorry that there was such a huge avalanche. at first, 53% against, 47% for. this time, the vote was 67 percent in favor and 33 percent against. what happened and why? i'm saying that fear was present. i wish ireland and the irish all the best and abundant blessings. (alice jaakonsaari commented without a microphone)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the result of the irish referendum was clear and this result was a great signal for europe and for ireland. the irish must be congratulated on this outcome for a number of reasons. but i am particularly pleased that the irish referendum has brought the european union and its future back into the headlines. there is a need for a genuine debate, because real visions of the future of the european union have been rather scarce in recent years. it must also be remembered that the lisbon treaty is a compromise on the previous draft eu constitution. if the irish had now rejected the agreement, we would have had to reflect seriously and debate the direction in which we are really going as a union. and also to consider whether perhaps in recent years we have progressed too quickly and out of control to some extent. i think that these problems with ratification are indicative of the fact that the european union is seen as something remote and difficult to manage. in order to solve this problem, i hope that the debate on the future of the eu will not stop here, but that the debate will continue to be open with the reform of the treaty. we must create a united europe, and we cannot ignore the reasons which led to the rejection of this treaty in the first place. i believe that in this sense the lisbon treaty and its implementation are certainly the right and great step towards a more united and democratic union. but to achieve this we still need an open debate. i am also pleased that the lisbon treaty is helping to increase cooperation between national parliaments and brussels. it is time to turn our eyes from ireland to the czech republic. i hope europe will not have to hold its breath for long. it is important that the lisbon treaty be put into practice quickly and that we have... (the president interrupted the speaker)
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the motion for a resolution prepared by the committee on development and cooperation rightly points out, the ongoing global financial and economic crisis has hit the poorest of the poor the hardest. the achievements of many developing countries in the area of development goals are in jeopardy, and the achievement of the millennium development goals is proving increasingly difficult. despite the many promises made by developed countries - including declarations at g20 and g8 meetings - the amount of aid delivered to developing countries is nowhere near the level of commitments made. in fact, even before the crisis, development aid in several eu member states was well below what was promised. but a crisis can also be a new opportunity. the substantial increase in the resources of the international monetary fund (imf) and the reform of its decision-making system are among these positive developments. the imf's reform and additional resources are a much-needed response, but on their own they are not enough to ease the plight of the world's poorest. developed countries must keep their commitments to both the millennium development goals and the required increase in development aid to 0.7% of gdp. the funding needed to combat and adapt to climate change is an additional responsibility that the developed world cannot afford to ignore. the idea of a more equal opportunity to participate in both the shaping of the rules and the playing of the game must be a cornerstone of the new international rules of the game.
mr president, i am concerned about the situation of religious freedom in turkey. the eu's position on turkey's accession to the eu is based on the fulfilment of all the copenhagen criteria. recently, the desire to improve the human rights and religious freedom situation in the country seems to have diminished due to internal tensions. the investigation of crimes against the churches has also revealed a lethargy. furthermore, for example, the orthodox church is still not free to choose its patriarch regardless of nationality, and efforts are still being made to restrict the public use of clerical insignia by clergymen. in the context of the accession negotiations, turkey should be expected to take concrete measures to demonstrate that it understands and recognises the value of european cultural heritage also on turkish soil. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a finnish poet has compared humanity to train passengers who are on their way to hell but who are focused on arguing for a seat in first class. this is another moment when eu leadership is needed. the best way for us to help break the deadlock in the climate negotiations is for the eu summit next week to make an offer on climate finance for developing countries. the committee on the environment yesterday voted in favour of a €30 billion eu contribution. it is clear that the eur 2 to 15 billion proposed by the commission cannot be enough. if we are honest, we have to acknowledge our historical responsibility for climate change and that our per capita emissions are still many times higher than, say, china and india.
mr president, the climate mafia, with the help of bona fide green policies, is transferring several hundred million euros of tax money from developed countries to highly profitable transnational corporations and developing country state enterprises in the form of the type of climate tax that is being driven now. china, for example, could very well meet these obligations itself, it is the richest country in the world in terms of foreign exchange reserves. finland and the eu must rescue their steel, timber and forestry industries by requiring a specific emissions system instead of the current percentage targets and emissions trading for the copenhagen decision to meet the climate targets for climate products. this is the fair way. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, there are some facts that should be admitted. first, the fact that our climate efforts have so far been of no use. the strategy has proved ineffective, as emissions have increased both in absolute and relative terms. contrary to expectations, global carbon intensity has only increased at the same time that there has been a real international effort. in countries that have ratified the agreement, emissions per tonne of production have not been reduced any more than in countries that have not ratified the kyoto protocol. we have a bad agreement and it must be replaced by a better one, more comprehensive, more efficient and more ambitious. secondly, we know less than we thought we did a while ago. even though emissions have increased more than predicted, temperature now does not logically follow the increase in emissions. now its rise has stopped, and cooling is predicted to continue in the coming years. but the time series is too short to draw conclusions and to safely forget past warming. so this information that is confusing the public at large does not dismiss the concern about climate change, but it does say that we need more research. so decisions have to be sensible under all conditions, whether there is rapid warming or not. the united nations millennium development goals should be the starting point. it's not just looking at coal, it's looking at a comprehensive climate policy. thirdly, we are living in a time of economic crisis, and this implies a responsibility towards the citizens. what we do must be wise and effective. the world can no longer afford a bad climate agreement. the kyoto mistakes must not be repeated and no agreement must be made which merely transfers them from one place to another and does not really reduce them. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat climate change, including the introduction of a new energy tax. the resulting carbon leakage may even lead to an increase in global emissions as local emissions decrease. in order to do that, we need a strong commitment to decarbonisation and to technologies that reduce emissions. dirty production must not be possible anywhere. we cannot create loopholes; the eu emissions trading system is the model from the very beginning.
mr president, a just transition to a low-carbon world is very important and the functioning of the political system is very important, because the market never cares about justice. this is why the copenhagen meeting is important. i wish secretary carlgren had prioritized things more. you prioritized everything, and so basically nothing got prioritized. i think that climate policy must also emphasise income sharing effects. how can the adjustment opportunities of low-income households be increased in europe too? i wonder if any european country has taken this into account yet. for example, a more flexible use of the structural funds could be used to promote green structural change. so it's not enough to save the world. we have to save people, too.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, new research on the progress of climate change is emerging every day and shows that it is progressing faster than previous estimates. to preserve the earth as it is adapted to life, we should have a carbon-neutral economy by 2050. in the light of these studies, the eu's climate targets cannot be called too ambitious. we know the gravity of the problem. yet time is still being spent debating whether or not we have a 100 percent certainty about human-induced climate change. the reluctance to take the right action is incomprehensible - especially when the means and techniques are already well known, which can bring about change and at the same time improve the quality of life with the help of new technology. the explanation for inaction is psychological. some of our behaviors are stubbornly resistant to change, and others are slow to change. the only problem is, we're running out of time. one of the biggest issues for the rest of the year is the eu's willingness to work with determination to ensure that the copenhagen agreement is climate-sensitive. the union should make a clear commitment to a 30% reduction by 2020 and an 80% reduction by 2050. the agreement includes a credible eu pledge to help developing countries with information and technology transfer and adequate aid.
in writing. − mr president i voted in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund's (egf) investment of nearly €5.6 million to germany's north rhine-westphalia region, which has suffered from mass redundancies since the 1990's. as a result of the finnish telecommunications company nokia closing its production plant in bochum in 2008 and relocating to more cost effective market areas, 2,300 more people in the region were made redundant. being a finn i take a special interest in plight of the workers, who have lost their jobs due to the cessation of nokia production in bochum. the closure of the nokia plant in bochum was indeed the latest in a string of events compounding the unemployment in the region. for this reason i wholeheartedly welcome the investment from egf in the region as a way of improving employment opportunities for the people of north rhine-westphalia.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for a good report. the financial crisis recovery package and the milk crisis have made the budgetary procedure for the coming year very challenging. the challenges are still ahead and we look forward with great interest to the commission's proposal next week on the financing of the recovery package. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i would like to raise just one specific question. the economic situation has led to very tight budgetary budgets in the member states. the budgetary discipline of the member states is perhaps to some extent understandable in the case of economic corruption, but it is inexcusable that in the past years, in the case of the structural funds, the member states have had to return funds from the budget as unused appropriations. the reason for this failure is the administrative and control system, which requires rapid simplification. in view of the economic situation, it is of the utmost importance that the structural funds are used effectively to support the recovery of the outermost regions.
the author. mr president, i am very pleased that sweden has, during its presidency, raised the issue of democracy as an important issue in external relations. from the point of view of the subcommittee on human rights, i would like to stress that democracy and human rights are inseparable. this is very clear from the different definitions of democracy and i would like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, in 2005, the un tried to define democracy. it has a long list of things, from a pluralistic political system to the rule of law, transparency of government, freedom of the media, and so on. we can see from this that human rights and democracy cannot be separated. the european union has a very wide range of instruments at its disposal to promote democracy in the world. the whole of development policy and the common foreign and security policy cover this range. we have the means of dialogue with other countries, various financial instruments, election observation, of course, is very important to us, and also action in international forums. there are also times when we need to consider various negative actions. i would like to draw minister malmström's attention to the fact that the general affairs council is preparing to discuss the lifting of the arms embargo against uzbekistan next week. i think that all the indications are that this is a completely wrong signal, because uzbekistan has really not paid any attention to the demands of the international community. the international community, including the european union, has called for an independent international inquiry into the sad and shocking events in andizan in the spring of 2005, which were a real crackdown on democracy. i would like to hear what minister malmström thinks about this situation. how can democracy be promoted when some member states now want to abandon this arms embargo? i would also like to say that democracy cannot be taken away; it is not an export product. it is certainly not something that is imposed from the outside, and that is why i would like to stress the importance of involving civil society, because that is how democracy grows organically, as it were, from the grassroots of society. i would like to mention that russia is a partner which systematically refuses to accept ngos in human rights dialogues between the union and itself. i think that in future we cannot accept this. finally, i would like to say that democracy support should be given a higher level in the union's foreign and security policy and development policy. it also requires more resources. for example, the european instrument for democracy and human rights is rather modest in terms of resources and we need to increase the resources available to it.
mr president, i would also like to say to minister malmström that i think we as a union have two weaknesses in these efforts to achieve democracy and human rights throughout the world. member states often have very contradictory, divergent aspirations among themselves. the uzbekistan arms embargo seems to be the case where not all member states agree. how can a common policy be made in this way? secondly, i would like to say that uzbekistan is also a good example of a country which tells us that the european union has nothing to teach us in the field of democracy and human rights, because the union has its own shortcomings and problems. how can we get rid of these double standards? we have a habit of teaching others, not necessarily living by our own teachings. i also think that the idea of the democracy of the organization of the report you mentioned drew attention to these double standards.
i agree with mr marinescu, the president of the european parliament, that the next council must resolve two issues. the first is the completion of the lisbon treaty and the second is the new remedies for the economic and financial crisis. we are now living through the deepest crisis in european economic history. this crisis is redistributing people's opportunities, their incomes, their pensions and their jobs, and we must be aware of this. the european union has made a very good start to its recovery. i thank the commission for that. the commission and the european central bank acted so quickly that the united states followed europe's example. then there was this weird clot, and we started talking about the crisis being over. but the crisis is actually coming, and the crisis is coming because the european union is being held up by a four-wheeled guillotine: rising unemployment, indebted national economies, ageing and the major structural changes taking place in the forestry industry, the car industry and so on. in fact, the only good thing about this economic crisis is that politics is now required to solve the problems. the commission is not very ambitious when it comes to the new financial architecture. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the aim should be to regulate the financial markets. however, over-regulation must not be a barrier to growth and employment.
mr president, freedom of the press is a very important issue and i voted for freedom of the press. we must remember, however, that freedom also entails responsibility and we need a europe of critical and open communication. we must ensure that this is the case in the future. the history of europe tells us what horrors have been caused when the media have been closed down and information has not been able to circulate freely. i think that we in the european parliament must look at the whole of europe, not just at individual member states. that is why we must broaden the subject and establish principles that we will uphold, whether we are socialists, liberals or right-wingers. the same rules must apply to all and in all circumstances we must work to ensure that freedom of the press is preserved. it is one of the fundamental freedoms which i hope will be preserved in the european union in the years to come. i also hope that everyone is treated with the same standards.
in writing. - mr president, freedom of expression and an independent media are the cornerstones of democracy and must be highly valued and protected. like many other colleagues, i am concerned about the developments in a number of member states, including italy and hungary. if this resolution had dealt with the issue of information and its problems in general throughout the eu, i would have also warmly supported it. i couldn't do it now. i support the principle of the epp in our group that the eu should not interfere in national affairs where it has no legal mandate to do so. i am therefore pleased with the outcome of the vote on freedom of the media in italy, that all nine motions for resolutions were rejected today in plenary. i share the concern of our group that by demanding a pan-european legislation on media pluralism and ownership, parliament would be destroying press freedom rather than creating it. the eu member states have the appropriate institutions to deal with the basic problems, and this problem in italy must also be dealt with at national level. but that does not mean that we should deny the existence of the whole problem. i myself voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution by the socialists, liberals and greens, in line with our group, with one exception. amendment no 10 by our group downplays, or even denies, the problems of freedom of the media in italy, which is why i could not support it. in the interests of logic, i could not support our group's own motion for a resolution either, because it was equally concerned with the situation of one member state and, in seeking a counterbalance, it was trying to downplay the problems.
i would like to draw your attention, mr president, commissioner ferrero-waldner, to the fact that the european union is committed to respecting human rights in all its activities, and that includes, of course, the rights of women already mentioned here. i believe that the common foreign and security policy will improve our ability to take human rights into account in all our activities, but this will not happen by itself. i would like to hear from you how you intend to ensure that human rights and equality are mainstreamed in this future external relations administration. i will give you an example: not all eu delegations are currently fully complying with the seven human rights guidelines we have agreed together. we now have the opportunity to give more weight to such matters, for example, through education, and the brok report also mentions education. so i would be interested to hear your opinion on these matters.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent report. however, i would like to stress that if we are to make the external relations administration work, we must also really take account of the small member states and the specificities of each country in the field of foreign and security policy. only through this and this debate can we make the external relations department a functioning entity. it is important that the report also makes a strong reference to transparency and democracy. i also believe that we must put particular emphasis on the soft security issues on the part of the foreign affairs ministry. the european union was founded on peace and stability, and we can promote them globally, particularly through humanitarian aid, development cooperation, crisis management and international trade.
in writing. mr president, honourable members of the commission and the council, ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament adopted the dehaene report on the impact of the lisbon treaty on the eu's institutional balance last spring. the report also calls for the eu to take a gender perspective into account in the appointment of future eu leaders. now, just a few months later, the european parliament is taking an even stronger stand in favour of the achievement of equality. so parliament's position on equality is clear! the commission vice-president margot wallström has been active in gender issues. the newly elected commission president, josé manuel barroso, has also pledged to promote equality in the new commission. however, the member states are in a decisive position. i am convinced that there are qualified commissioners-designate, both men and women, in the member states of the european union. thank you!
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i shall not repeat all the wise and good things that my colleagues have already said. i can only begin by saying that i am very pleased that this issue is being discussed here today. i should like to say a few words about the treatment of the fisheries agreement in the committee on 30 september. in fact, when we were discussing this issue, one might have thought that the eu was about to conclude a trade agreement with any western democracy. it was not clear from the discussion or from the documents that we had an agreement with a nation in which the situation is what it is today, and which has also been described quite well here in the house. many people may have felt that fisheries issues are one thing and human rights are another, and that they should not be mixed up. i myself cannot understand how a politician can reason like that. the fact that the votes in the committee fell 11 to 9 in favour of dropping the agreement is also quite worrying. so there was a fairly large group in parliament who at least at that stage thought it was quite okay to conclude a trade agreement with a country like guinea and with a regime like that country. it is gratifying to say that there is now a much greater consensus on, firstly, having a clear line on guinea and, secondly, that there is broad support for the fact that this agreement has now actually been withdrawn by the council. i'm very pleased. it may also seem that those who are in favour of withdrawing the agreement are not thinking of the fishermen concerned, but that is not the case at all. of course, we must find a lasting solution for them. but we cannot sweep human rights under the carpet just because we have a situation where we have a number of fishing boats that need to be supported.
mr president, since the commission has been commended here for the decision it has taken on the guinea fisheries protocol specifically because of human rights violations, i would like to ask the commissioner whether it is now intended to systematically examine other similar situations or at least to prepare for a consistent and equally strict action when such serious human rights violations may occur elsewhere.
mr president, a finnish voter recently asked me how i would define human rights. i told him that i should not and should not define them on my own, otherwise they would not carry me beyond my own door. the idea is that human rights have already been defined and that states have committed themselves to respecting them. they are binding on the international community. that's why we appeal to them. guinea is a signatory to the cotonou agreement, which requires respect for human rights and democracy. this is the starting point. we must really make sure that the democratic process in the country gets off to a good start by concluding further cooperation agreements on the basis of the cotonou agreement. as we have heard, the current situation in guinea is intolerable and requires a rapid response and possibly sanctions. guinea has substantial mineral resources and therefore great potential for development. it's also one of the most corrupt countries in the world. it is truly regrettable that chinese state-owned companies and companies that invest in guinea do not demand any commitment to human rights.
mr president, iran should have an important role to play in the middle east peace negotiations, but unfortunately it seems to be moving further and further away from the democratic rule of law. firstly, there are serious doubts about the outcome of the elections last june, which extended the term of office of president ahmadinejad. the general human rights situation has deteriorated further since the elections. moreover, since ahmadinejad came to power in 2005, the number of executions has quadrupled, and iran is the second largest executioner in the world after china. second, freedom of religion and expression is in a weak position. among them are seven baha'i leaders who remain imprisoned solely on the basis of their religious beliefs. in our resolution we appeal to the iranian authorities and i hope that we can also convey our support and appreciation for the courage with which many iranians are defending fundamental freedoms and democratic principles. the courageous iranian women who played a decisive role in the post-election protests in tehran are particularly admirable.
the author. - mr president, all that my colleagues have witnessed here about the current situation in sri lanka was confirmed by the recent hearing of the subcommittee on human rights on this nightmarish situation. we can indeed say that the movement of these 260 000 tamils continues to be restricted in violation of all international law, months after the end of the war itself. we can say that freedom of the press is severely restricted. yesterday, reporters without borders ranked sri lanka's media freedom as 162 out of 175 countries. we must now demand that representatives of all the un bodies have access to these camps. the resolution calls for local elections and we in the green group use a slightly more humane term, which i hope our colleagues will support. we just want to let you know that this election is going to be held. on the trade policy issue, i am very pleased that the commission is currently looking into how sri lanka is implementing the requirements of various human rights conventions. i expect the commission to do a genuine objective and impartial job and to come to a conclusion in due course as to whether sri lanka has indeed earned this most favourable treatment under the gsp+ system.
mr president, we have followed and commented on the situation in sri lanka on several occasions and at times we have almost given up hope of finding a solution. but the 25 years of conflict have ended in the defeat of the tamil tigers this year. the long conflict has typically caused a high number of casualties and internally displaced persons, as well as problems in the economy and in the development of the rule of law. the country is now in a hopeful but critical phase. here is a mention of concern for the plight of those living in the camps. as we say in the resolution, we hope that the authorities will soon accept international aid and open the camp to humanitarian aid and trained conflict personnel. at the same time, the international community must commit itself to taking action to build lasting peace on that beautiful island. the aid should also include additional aid for mine clearance financed by the commission.
mr president, allow me to extend an exceptional thanks to the media. without vigilance and free media, citizens would be completely excluded from the choice of eu leaders. but fortunately, there are media outlets that report on the discussions and have presented impossible and possible candidates for both the post of president of the eu and this post of high representative for foreign affairs. in this debate too, there has been very little discussion of names, only a few names have come up. however, we are trying to educate others outside the eu about the importance of democratic elections. i was able to visit turkey some time ago and a turkish member of parliament asked, when we were talking about the elections after the lisbon treaty, that because these elections will then take place, and the european union delegation replied that we have no idea who the candidates are, when the elections will take place, everything will be behind closed doors. the eu still has a lot to improve in this area, so that we can act more openly.
mr president, we have a very interesting situation in this chamber at the moment, namely that all three institutions are represented by a woman: mrs malmström on behalf of the swedish presidency, mrs wallström on behalf of the commission and you, mr president, on behalf of parliament. i would like to see us continue to have women leaders in top offices on a regular basis and in much larger numbers than we have today. i know that mrs wallström and mrs wallis, the vice-president of this parliament, took an interesting initiative and brought us in with the other women leaders in this parliament and in the commission. we wrote to president barroso and said we wanted to see change, we wanted to see a fair balance between women and men in the commission and in other top offices. i hope that this opportunity will be taken up now, because, although the president of the commission is fully in favour of our idea, unfortunately the heads of state are not doing anything to take responsibility for this regrettable situation. it cannot be that the union is constantly represented only through the faces of men.
mr president, three points in a nutshell. i think that russia should understand, for its own sake, that it must become a state governed by the rule of law. it is very difficult to see how russia could develop as an economy or a society without an independent judiciary. it is impossible to imagine that foreign companies could feel safe in the country for their investments if an independent judicial body has not been established. secondly, i would like to stress that russia must be made to play by the international rules. in the council of europe we have the problem that russia has not yet ratified protocol no 14, which would make the work of the court of human rights more effective, and we also want russia to join the espoo convention on the assessment of the environmental impact of international projects in the baltic sea region. thirdly, mr president, human rights are important in themselves. i was very encouraged by mrs malmström's speech on how human rights issues are now being brought up at the summit. take the results of the human rights dialogue there and do it very publicly.
in writing. mr president, alzheimer's disease is a perplexing disease that transforms a sick world into an unknown and dangerous place. life is being in a life-threatening now where past memories and learning don't provide a safe bridge to the present. adding to the human hardship is the fact that no cure for the disease is known today. it's also a disease of loved ones. it is sometimes called a family disease, as family members often suffer from chronic stress. the social impact is far-reaching and heavy. as europe's population ages, neurodegenerative diseases such as alzheimer's and parkinson's are increasingly becoming a public health issue: there are already more than 7 million sufferers and this number is expected to double in the next decade. yet, the causes of disease are not yet fully understood by medicine. there are promising research results, but coordination is needed to promote breakthroughs. in order to link private and public research and innovation in the various member states, community programming is needed. it is therefore hoped that more effective prevention, diagnosis and treatment of these diseases will be implemented as soon as possible in the field of health care. i am convinced that people living with degenerative diseases of the nervous system, patients, relatives and carers, will strongly support the efforts to find new ways of overcoming these diseases by working together. it is projects like these that tell the citizens why we are here today in the first place; they justify the existence of the union as a whole. i agree with mr reul that procedural and jurisdictional issues are secondary when the matter is moving in the right direction.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last summer the commission adopted a council recommendation calling on the eu member states to jointly plan research activities in the field of degenerative neurological diseases. this is important in order to make ever better use of the limited research resources. however, it should be borne in mind that, in addition to research, europe needs a broader action programme on memory disorders. the european parliament adopted a letter earlier this year calling on the commission to draw up an action programme on alzheimer's disease. the parliament's letter highlighted four issues: the development of research, early diagnosis, improving the quality of life of patients and their carers, and the role of memory associations. i would like to remind you that the programme is urgent and that the commission should take the action which parliament has asked it to take.
for the alde group mr president, mr european ombudsman and colleagues, i would like to thank the ombudsman and his entire office for the valuable work they have done to promote good governance and transparency. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. the role of the european ombudsman has been necessary from the outset, and now that the treaty of lisbon has entered into force and the fundamental rights instrument has become binding, the role of the ombudsman is becoming even more important. in future, therefore, more attention must be paid to ensuring that the ombudsman has the necessary resources for action and that his mandate is modern. this means that he gets the information he needs and that eu officials have to tell him what they know, not what they want. otherwise we cannot speak of the principles of the rule of law which we so gladly speak of and teach to others. we must also follow the rule of law ourselves, and then we can tell others about it. the ombudsman's annual report is a good example of how our work should be presented to the public. the narrative is clear, concise, and penetrating. transparency is the key to european democracy and its most important building block, and it is interesting that 36% of complaints relate to this lack of transparency. it says a lot, and it needs to be addressed. the charter of fundamental rights states that every citizen has the right to have his or her case dealt with by these institutions in an impartial, fair and timely manner. it has been said a lot, and it is binding on all of us, including, of course, the office of the ombudsman. i would therefore like to stress that resources must be safeguarded so that citizens do not have to wait for decisions for years. it depends on resources first and foremost. i would like to thank and i would like to thank the ombudsman for his valuable work and wish him every success in this very, very challenging and sometimes too undervalued job. that is one of the most important tasks and tasks of the european union: to ensure the rights of citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank in particular the ombudsman, mr diamandouros, for his unwavering support for parliament's efforts to defend and increase the transparency of decision-making, and as we know, ladies and gentlemen, this work must continue, it has its challenges. commissioner wallström raised the issue of the code of conduct on good governance in the institutions and i would like to ask commissioner wallström, but also the ombudsman, mr diamandouros, whether it is not time for the new commission to start its work, to put forward a proposal for legislation covering all the institutions and obliging all the institutions to act in accordance with good governance? i understand that every member state has such legislation.
i support the reasoned proposals made by the rapporteur, mr president, and by my colleague, mrs marta andreassen. in this report you welcome the lisbon treaty. it is your right, and i say again, for my part, that i am saddened by the crumbling of our sovereignty. you won, but we are here and we are in your conscience, because the way the lisbon treaty was passed is not honourable. the thing about independence never gets old. the report states that several legal amendments are needed to bring this economic constitution into force. so you admitted the fact. so it is a constitutional law, economically, politically and legally. we were right, and our fight for independence continues here. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in recent weeks we have again heard reports of the poor state of the baltic sea. that is why i cannot refrain from saying a few words here today. i would also like to do so because we had a compromise between the council and parliament last week on the 2010 budget. the budget includes the €20 million for the baltic sea strategy that parliament has wanted to add, which is welcome. i would therefore like to take this opportunity, in the presence of the commission, to remind you that the baltic sea strategy needs a legal basis in order for us to be able to apply it effectively and for the funds now set aside to be used effectively. as already mentioned, the reports of recent weeks indicate that we are in a hurry. things have to happen quickly. so i hope that we all roll up our sleeves and start doing something really soon. it requires action not only on our own part but also on the part of the commission and the council and those concerned.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, the copenhagen summit is the most important negotiation in the history of mankind. it's about the future of all mankind. the importance of the meeting is further underscored by the fact that the publicity game has escalated to the point of vilifying climate scientists as the meeting approaches. but there is no time to lose, global emissions must be reversed in less than ten years. the ministers and prime ministers meeting in copenhagen must take responsibility and make decisions to ensure that the world is not allowed to warm by more than two degrees. the decision shall cover all the main issues, be binding and set a binding timetable for the preparation of a final international agreement. i am glad that minister carlgren also spoke of a binding decision and a binding international agreement. the agreement must include long-term emission targets, but even more importantly, it must agree on emission limits for 2020. the reductions in emissions from industrialized countries must be closer to the 40% threshold than the 25% threshold. the eu's leadership is as crucial now as it has been in the past. the best way to show leadership is to commit now to a 30 percent reduction by 2020 and to make a clear financial offer to developing countries. as the committee on the environment has stated, the eu's financial contribution should be around eur 30 billion per year by 2020. as minister carlgren has also stated, the recession has made emissions reductions cheaper. we must seize this opportunity and raise our ambition. for those who would like to question the whole climate protection thing, i want to remind you that the planet is not waiting. you can't say to the planet, "please give us a few more years, we're in recession", or "climate change sceptics made us hesitate". climate change proceeds according to the laws of physics and chemistry, and we are responsible for our decisions and also for our omissions. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, we must safeguard the welfare of workers, small businesses and industry. only in a healthy economy can environmental actions be possible. only if the economy is healthy can we invest in the environment. we cannot do that with the present percentage targets. the present interest rate, as a catholic i say, is the present day interest rate, and it is not a good thing. we need to introduce a system of specific emissions, like in cars, so that we can measure what has happened and draw conclusions from that. why does the left not defend the worker, either in finland or in europe? the left's support is melting faster than icebergs. alternatively, products that exceed specific emission limits may be subject to customs duties. if we create a system where environmental dumping from developing and less developed countries is not possible, then we will be able to secure jobs and better products in the future.
mr president, last week it was leaked that the commission has been quietly preparing an initiative with a few member states to move immediately to a 30% cut in emissions. it has been argued that a 30% cut could keep the carbon price at a reasonable level, i.e. at a level conducive to emission reduction measures. the big power companies, who lobby hard, are in favor of a plan that would boost the profits of listed power companies and at the same time remove carbon leakage protection from european industry. however, i would remind the commission that under the emissions trading directive the eu's 20% emission reduction target will only change to 30% once other industrialized countries have comparable reduction efforts, comparable reduction measures, and developed developing countries also have some obligations. it is not enough to reach a political agreement in copenhagen. on the other hand, a legally binding agreement is not enough until all countries have ratified it. only after ratification can the eu say whether the condition of proportional reduction has been met. turning a political agreement into a binding agreement is not a technical trifle. the global climate legal agreement contains precise texts on hundreds of issues, the main themes of which include quantitative emission reduction commitments for developed countries up to 2020 and beyond, specific emissions targets for developing countries up to 2020 and beyond, financial assistance from developed countries to developing countries, technology development and transfer, sinks and their calculation rules. all these points involve dozens of individual issues on which countries must agree. but above all, it is only through a balanced reduction of emissions that the overall reduction of emissions is guaranteed, and not simply by moving from one place to another, increasing the overall emissions. the commission has therefore decided to make the eu's reductions conditional on other measures. otherwise, verheugen's evil prediction would come true, that we would only bring pollution and unemployment here. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, the debate here has been very interesting and it seems that the european parliament is very strongly committed to supporting the copenhagen climate conference. the importance of agriculture as a solution to the problem has also been emphasised. i would also like to stress the importance of forestry policy and forests, since forests are carbon sinks that store carbon dioxide. it seems that the united states is bringing the good news to copenhagen, which is a very significant thing. it is now time to start a concrete discussion on how the cost of climate change mitigation will be paid. in this case, the question of income distribution is of the utmost importance, because the bill cannot be paid by poor people in europe either.
i believe, mr president, that this legislation is necessary as we move towards the electronic single market. the lisbon strategy has already decided to move in this direction. however, i am particularly concerned about the importance of safeguarding the fundamental right of internet users to have free access to the internet. the concern is its illegal, misuse, and as we know, one of the biggest issues and problems of this moment is piracy. piracy is growing very strongly all the time, and one of its key areas is the internet. i hope that in future efforts will be made to ensure that creators are compensated for their work and that piracy does not eat their bread and butter, as is currently very common on the internet, where files are illegally downloaded. this is the right step and the right direction, but in future we must pay particular attention to the rights of authors of creative work and to combat piracy.
i would ask you, mr president, mr commissioner, in reference to last week's meeting, whether you are satisfied with the selection process for two important posts, or do you also think that some of the union's decisionmaking still requires a great deal more transparency and democracy? i ask you, did the way in which the candidates now appeared out of nowhere strengthen the eu's authority and increase confidence in eu decision-making? should the major political groups seriously consider the kind of candidates they will be putting forward for high office in the future, whether the selection process can be revised and improved in any way and who should do it? i think it's the european parliament and the members of parliament. finland had excellent candidates this time and we have reason to be happy about that.
mr president, the geneva convention defines the term 'refugee' as meaning that the conditions for granting asylum must be examined individually for each person. as we heard in the previous debate, the asylum applications were dealt with properly and it was possible to make a joint return, provided that these conditions were examined in each case separately. what concerns this house and me is that the security situation in afghanistan is such that we do not know whether any person can be returned. in finland, for example, this situation has been resolved in such a way that even if the personal definitions of refugee were not met, that is, the right to asylum is not granted, a temporary residence permit has been granted because the country at war does not want to return people. the security situation in afghanistan is too dangerous to allow anyone to be returned at this time, but once the situation has calmed down, these persons will be returned.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has done a very good job. when we talk about the discharge for 2007 on the use of common funds, we are not talking about council money, commission money or parliament money, but taxpayers' money. the money of the people, and the people must have the right to know what their money is being spent on. above all, parliament represents the people and it must have the right to receive all the information it requires. it cannot be that parliament is directly asked for information. that is why openness, transparency, is the only way for the eu institutions to win the trust of their citizens. i would like to join those who have thanked us for the enormous progress that has been made on this matter and for the excellent work that has been done by the swedish presidency, which has now allowed us to grant a discharge. i would also like to thank commissioner kallas, who has done a very good job over the last five years. we've made some progress on these issues. this is a step in the right direction. (applause) i would like to thank you.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am glad that the commission has taken this matter seriously. the reality for many minority groups in europe is difficult, and a strong message from the eu in particular can help to counter the wave of intolerance that has swept our continent in recent years. i think the eu should make it absolutely clear to every european that it is an added value to have and speak languages other than the majority language. why would you do that? yes, partly because each language carries with it an enormous cultural heritage that enriches europe's diversity. areas where minority languages are spoken are also more economically successful and competitive than other areas. so it pays to employ people who speak the local languages if you want to do business in such areas. there were two good reasons. i would like to thank the commission for the initiative and i will not linger any longer because time is limited.
in writing. mr president, honourable members of the council and the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the swedish presidency for its work in drawing up the new work programme on home affairs and justice. the european union has the opportunity to improve the daily lives of all eu citizens through the stockholm programme. security, prosperity and equality are the result of a consistent application of the principles of the rule of law, solidarity and non-discrimination in the different policy areas and in the legislation to be drawn up. much more attention should be paid to improving the lives of immigrants, minorities and citizens who face discrimination for one reason or another. this is not just a marginal phenomenon: according to a recent eurobarometer survey, one in six europeans reported experiencing discrimination in the last year. i would like to stress the importance of the directive on the prohibition of discrimination in the supply of goods and services which is now before the council. unfortunately, the progress of the directive in the council has been very slow and the directive has faced considerable opposition from some member states. the european union's foundation of values is built on respect for the principles of human rights and equality. these principles must also be fully implemented at the level of pan-european legislation.
mr president, on the voting order between amendments 43 and 54, my group sees that this voting order in this list is the wrong way round. adopting amendment 43 should not make amendment 54 fall, because in 54 there are also other issues which are not covered by 43. if some of this makes another amendment fall, then 54 should be voted on first and then 43 after that. this is not on the first vote but a vote on the second page. i just wanted to announce this so that you know when we come to that place in the vote.
mr president, it is very important to talk about the safety of air passengers and, above all, about compensation in the event of company bankruptcy, as mr oviir has already said. in the past nine years, there have been 77 bankruptcies, and it is claimed that air traffic is now in the worst turbulence ever. the new phenomenon is the low-cost airlines, which at the moment seem to be doing well and making big profits. it has driven many other airlines into unhealthy competition. as has been said, it would be very important to ensure that the bad examples of the past do not recur and that companies have some responsibility for passengers and a liability to compensate in the event of cancellation of a trip due to bankruptcy. it will not happen... (the president interrupted)
it is very good, mr president, that on the same day as we are discussing the copenhagen climate conference resolution, food security and hunger are also brought up, because these two issues are very closely linked. some speakers have already raised the problem of how we have also partly caused more problems through climate policy. we have set unrealistic targets for biofuels, for example, which has led to the purchase of land from developing countries for the cultivation of biofuel crops. the poorest of the poor are thus deprived of the land they could use for agriculture and for developing their own agricultural production. similarly, there have been distortions in agricultural policy which have led to the export of surplus production to developing countries and thus to the impeding of the development of the developing countries' own agriculture. it is vital to remember the truth that today we have enough food in the world, but the desire to distribute it fairly is lacking.
mr president, mr president of the european court of auditors, mr commissioner, i would like to thank the court of auditors for the valuable work it has done in the interest of the european taxpayer. the eu accounts allow a margin of error of 2%. i would see that particularly salaries and other administrative costs need to be able to be made more precise. they must not be allowed to be ambiguous. on the other hand, there are other cost groups where achieving a margin of error of 2% seems difficult, if not impossible. the court of auditors estimates that up to 11% of the total amounts reimbursed under cohesion policy should not have been used at all. the situation has been the same for the last two years. in the absence of the 2% ceiling, i would like to ask whether the commission or the court of auditors have considered whether the 2% ceiling should be revised so that year after year it is not concluded that we will in no way reach the 2% ceiling this year or next year. the commission will continue to work with the member states to ensure that the necessary measures are taken to ensure that the most efficient and cost-effective way of working is possible and that the application procedure is simplified.
mr president, we are dealing with an important matter and i should like to say first of all that the management of the budget has improved considerably. but there are problems, and i want to highlight a few of them. the first is the institutional building and property policy. when i was drawing up the 2008 budget for parliament and the other institutions, i found that things were not right in this respect. i would like to see a thorough study of why the buildings of the institutions cost more than the market average. once the investigation is complete, we'll know if there's anything suspicious or if everything is fine. the second point i would like to draw attention to is the situation in romania and bulgaria, which has already been raised in previous speeches. we know what the problems are and we must find ways of helping romania and bulgaria to put things right. it is also a political issue, and we are talking about the justification for enlargement if we take in countries which are not able to manage their budgets properly. the third point is external action, particularly in relation to the un, but we must also be able to carry out checks in such a way that we can inform the public that things are in order. above all, however, it should be noted that the number of areas with no errors has increased, and this is due to commissioner siim kallas and the court of auditors, both of whom have done an excellent job. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i voted in favour of this report, mr president, but i would like to raise one more important point. i think we in the european parliament and the european union must ensure that all countries seeking to join the european union comply with the copenhagen criteria. it is essential to ensure that human rights, democracy, freedom of expression and the rule of law can be realised. today we also voted for women's rights and for the right of women to live free from violence. i think it is very important in this context to ensure that the rights of women and children are also respected in all the countries that wish to join the european union. i would like to emphasize turkey above all. turkey must undergo rapid reforms and changes to be ready to join the european union, although i cannot believe that this will happen in our lifetime. the most important thing is that we in the european union stick to the rules of the game that we have agreed on, the copenhagen criteria.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution, even though i would have liked to see it more rigorous. tobacco is the single most important cause of premature death in europe. tobacco smoke is an environmental pollutant that contains several hundred compounds that are harmful to health. yet, in some parts of europe, exposure to tobacco is permitted to bystanders as well as users. secondhand smoke is a moral problem because sufferers lack the freedom of choice. especially the children. studies show that a child of a smoking parent "burns" practically one out of every four cigarettes of his parent. secondhand smoke causes the premature death of nearly 100,000 europeans each year. many member states have already done a good job: when smoking was finally banned in restaurants and bars in finland, there was vocal opposition. now, two years later, all you hear is "thank you". it tells us the nature of public health policy: while prevention and education can produce lasting results, it also requires the determination of the legislator. i disagree with some colleagues that there is no need for binding community legislation on occupational safety and health. i have to admit that the recommendations have not been sufficient in all cases. i support paragraph 13 of the resolution, which calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal to ban smoking in indoor workplaces and also in public transport. smoking is costly to society, and the 70% non-smoking majority in europe also pay the price. i therefore agree with the position expressed by parliament in 2007 that the tobacco products directive should be tightened up and the manufacturers' liability applied to the financing of healthcare costs related to tobacco consumption. but first the union must remove the spear from its own eye. it is high time to end the gradual decline in tobacco subsidies.
the author. - mr president, it is welcome news that the asean countries have set up a regional human rights commission. against this background, it is shocking to meet vietnamese monks who have been the victims of a violent attack. we had the honour of meeting them at the subcommittee on human rights recently. the situation of religious communities in vietnam seems to be getting more difficult. it is indeed reprehensible that more than 300 monks and nuns from the two monasteries were forced to leave as a result of the violence and that religious communities are continually harassed. it is important that vietnam takes into account the recommendations of the un commission on human rights, which include inviting the un special rapporteur to monitor the implementation of freedom of expression, freedom of religion and other fundamental human rights.
mr president, laos took another important step forward in the improvement of human rights in september by ratifying the convention on the political rights of citizens. the agreement covers, among other things, freedom of religion, association and expression, and gives individuals the right to express their political opinions. however, the theory and practice are sometimes very far apart, and the journey from the former to the latter can be a long one. once again, a tremendous amount of political will is needed. the leaders of the student movement and other prisoners of conscience arrested during the demonstrations of october 1999 must be released without delay, as must those arrested on the second day of november this year during a peaceful demonstration. it is particularly important that the lao authorities demonstrate their democratic will by preparing and implementing legislative reforms as soon as possible. the national legislation must be brought into line with the international agreements to which laos is a party. only through legislative reforms and multiparty elections can democracy be established in the lao people's democratic republic, while respecting human rights.
for the verts/ale group mr president, the question was asked here as to why this pre-dialogue statement was made. the eu is also preparing for a summit with china, which will be preceded by a dialogue on human rights. in the european parliament and in the subcommittee on human rights, we have a duty to remind the council and the commission that the results of these human rights dialogues are also very strongly emphasized at the summits themselves. i am sorry that commissioner karel de gucht does not even listen to what i say, but is talking to his colleague. it is important that there should be a dialogue between the eu and china, and i believe that china will also realise that the only way forward is to increase transparency in decision-making and to guarantee the right of citizens to express their opinions. in fact, it is impossible to imagine that china would be different in this respect from any other country which has had to realize that in order to develop its society it needs all these creative forces which it now oppresses and tramples. if we believe that human rights are universal, we cannot really regard china as an exception, as mrs gomes has pointed out, and i agree with her. so we should treat china with the same standard that we use to measure other countries.
in writing. china has recently said goodbye to u.s. president barack obama and will soon say hello to european council president fredrik reinfeldt. however, we must see more action than just diplomatic gestures. china has stated to its own people and the world its commitment to human rights, including those of the minorities residing within its borders. however, their record speaks otherwise. there have lately been a number of disturbing incidences involving executions that were conducted with questionable trials and with uncommon haste. these activities were all conducted in secrecy. there is also the serious case of the uyghur minorities which the chinese government is implementing birth control policies that are phasing the group out. as the european union speaks out for minority rights and abhors the death penalty, we urge the chinese government to open up the process by which citizens are tried and sentenced to death and commute the sentences of those who were not given fair and open trials. we urge chinese authorities to respect the rights of minorities living within their borders with respect to both u.n. resolutions and their own constitution. we also urge china to improve its human rights with the support of the international community.
in writing. mr president, i understand the displeasure of some colleagues that our resolution on china coincides with the time after the visit of the chinese delegation and may thus give the impression of a failed trip, even though the atmosphere was excellent. it is the wish of all that cooperation should continue in a positive spirit, but without forgetting the facts. diplomacy must not override human rights but to drive them we need diplomacy and situational awareness. i was recently in pakistan, meeting with the president, the prime minister and the key ministers on the front lines of human rights and the fight against terrorism. i would say that there is occasionally a good reason for the human rights resolutions to include some good news. now there's a reason. a year ago, pakistan's new democratically elected government appointed the first minority minister in the country's history, who himself represents the christian minority. the government's achievements in this area have been significant: the country has approved a 5% quota for minorities in public office, religious holidays of minorities have been made official, they have their own minority day on 11 august, the senate is planning the same 5% quota. the main project is related to reducing violence: minorities, together with muslims, form local "inter-faith harmony" committees, which aim to reduce tensions and improve dialogue between different groups. they're coming to 112 different local areas. at best, they can also effectively prevent recruitment by the taliban. pakistan is the most important country in the world for global security. if the government can successfully use peaceful means like this to curb terrorism, the model is worth copying. it's worth keeping an eye on the situation.
mr president, i think that in the recent debate too many colleagues were allowed to exceed their speaking time by as much as twice. i would like to remind you that if necessary, the microphone can be turned off. it would be necessary so that we do not lose time talking together.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it seems strange that in this chamber, in this worsening employment situation, there is opposition to this good and important programme. it is predicted that ten million new unemployed will be found in europe next year, and the situation of those who are less well placed in the labour market will become even more difficult. these data highlight the need to invest in entrepreneurship. the biggest problems facing start-ups in obtaining bank loans are always those of the youngest companies. for example, in finland, more than 93% of enterprises are micro-enterprises with fewer than 10 employees, and yet these small enterprises employ 46% of all those in employment. it is therefore right that the eu should set up a microfinance system to respond to the employment crisis and thus also support the member states' own programmes in the same direction. however, i would like to stress in particular that this problem requires a holistic approach. the social, holiday and pension schemes for small entrepreneurs must also be developed on an equal footing with other sectors. europe, in particular, is lacking in venture capital and in the people, the business angels, who are willing to invest in the company at its early stages. entrepreneurship education and work-life connections must also be supported at all levels of schooling, and youth workshops and business cemeteries must be increased and funded. microfinance can only function as part of such a whole, where the situation of new small entrepreneurs and their whole environment is such that they have a real chance of continuing their activities successfully and profitably.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the report on microfinance schemes. there is still much we could do to encourage young europeans to become entrepreneurs. the economic and financial crisis has brought about a crisis of employment and social conditions, and it is predicted that ten million people will be unemployed in europe next year. so if there's ever a time to act, it's now. in view of the current situation, which is complicated by the weakening of credit and the reduction in loans granted, i very much welcome the initiative in this report to target micro-credit to those unemployed and those threatened with unemployment who are having difficulty finding commercial credit for their business ideas. however, it is also necessary to invest in, for example, youth workplaces and enterprises, and in entrepreneurship education. the overall improvement of employment and the promotion of entrepreneurship is a prerequisite for a prosperous europe.
mr president, the president of the commission began by referring to what was wrong with the previous models. the commission has had good programmes, but the member states do exactly as they please, that is to say, there is not enough stick and carrot to guide the member states. i also noticed that the 2020 paper lacks innovative ideas on how to guide member states. i would like to ask whether the commission intends to use the warnings in article 121 of the lisbon treaty if a member state does not comply with or even wishes to comply with the ideas of this 2020 programme?
mr president, i would like to thank you. one of the main failures of the lisbon strategy, which is a good paper, is that it has failed in some respects to make the member states actually live up to the objectives set out in the strategy. my finnish colleague asked earlier how the president thought the member states could be made to follow up the strategy better. one of the objectives included was how much member states should spend on research and development, i.e. as a percentage of gdp. i wonder if the commission has any ambition to set similar targets for the member states, i.e. how much of each member state's gross national product should be spent on research and development.
i am sure that the new high representative will have wondered, mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the council, how the european parliament does its homework, what kind of history books it reads, if it does not know how the state of israel was born in 1947. that is why this interpretation, which has been made in the council under the swedish presidency, also seems a little strange. it must be remembered that the european union must stand up for its values. we have democracy, human rights and freedom of expression, which is the most important thing. and israel is the only democracy in the middle east. we must not create antidemocracies, non-democracies, because they do not respect our values. it is also very important to remember that this idea that jerusalem would be divided, that it would be a city divided between two states, is an unthinkable idea. the european union is not offering this to any other democratic state. we must ensure that israel can retain its democracy and its right to its own capital, and that the european union can and must be involved in the peace process, but as a diplomat, as a doctor and not as a judge. it is regrettable that gilad shaliti, a french citizen, a citizen of the european union, an israeli soldier, has not been released. this is a sign of the attitude of the palestinian authority and hamas towards the european union. they have no respect for our principles or our values. we must move on from this and we must put aside the kind of useless speculation that this council resolution largely contains. israel is a democracy, israel's values are the same as ours, we must defend democracy and the right of the people there to live in safety and security, in peace, and that peace can be achieved when the terrorist organizations hamas and its partners stop attacking israel and israeli civilians. here we have a working field to fight terrorism together and create a possibility for the israeli people to exist.
mr president, the right of access to documents means the right of citizens to participate in decision-making and to have information as a basis for that decision-making, and the treaty of lisbon confirms this fundamental right of the citizens of the european union. if the european parliament does not defend this fundamental right, who will? that is why it is very important that we take a strong, clear position in this house in favour of transparency. we must not accept any backsliding, not the kind proposed by the commission. i can assure you that there are many misconceptions about what we are here to decide. we do not want to jeopardize international negotiations, but we believe that citizens have a right to know what is being discussed with foreign powers that affects their rights. nor will we end up with the conclusion that every member of the european parliament should publish his e-mail. if anyone fears such things, it is a frightening fear.
i would also like to add, mr president, that next may in kampala, uganda, there will be a conference on the revision of the statute of the international criminal court. it is ten years since the establishment of this important criminal court and i would hope that the ugandan government would review its legislation in all respects so that it is in line with international conventions and respects the principle of non-discrimination.
