for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in gaza is well known. it is natural that we should discuss this here in parliament. but we are asking the security council to take a stand, we are asking the authorities to take a stand, we are asking the european union to take a stand. and we in parliament are discussing it and we do not want to take a position. i think it is extremely important that this parliament should speak out and say exactly what it wants to say in order to stop the massacres that are taking place in the middle east at the moment. i find it unacceptable that this parliament does not have the courage and the lucidity to vote on a resolution after our debate. that is why our group is calling for the decision of the conference of presidents to be revised and for the debate we must have on the situation in gaza to be concluded by a resolution which will demonstrate the clear and firm position of this parliament, by a majority, that the massacres in gaza must stop. we want a resolution, we must be aware that we have a political responsibility for what is happening and this political responsibility cannot be just a discussion, it must be a resolution, which clearly says what we want and what we denounce!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have one more comment on the debate that will follow, on the gas dispute between ukraine and the soviet union and on the crisis in russia. excuse-moi, francis, for having done remonter the past, which i did not want to happen. as regards this debate, we would just like to point out, and i hope that all the groups can agree, that this debate will also discuss the fact that slovakia is unlawfully trying to restart a nuclear power station. i just wanted to ... (interruption of the debate) you're already the front-runner. you can be quiet now, bub. take it easy. it's you. i just wanted to make sure. this is parliament, bub.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that we have arrived on the eve of the adoption of this pesticide package. the two compromise texts which will be put to the vote in this parliament seem to me to be balanced and worthy of support, and in several respects. the advances for producers and users are notable: simplification of authorisation procedures through, in particular, the division into three zones and the accompanying mutual recognition. i would have liked to have had just one area, to ensure even more coherence throughout the union, but the member states have been a little too cool. increased training requirements for both vendors and users - better knowledge and handling of pesticides - are a guarantee of better health protection, but also of economic gains. the advances for animal welfare advocates are also notable, particularly through the sharing of animal test data. the progress made in protecting health and the environment is very significant; in the long term, the most dangerous substances will be replaced by less harmful ones. i can't help but touch on the highly controversial issue of endocrine disruptors. until now, there was no definition. there was no legislation on this issue. the compromise gives the european commission four years to make scientifically based proposals for measures to define endocrine disrupting properties. this scientific definition will make it possible to classify products according to whether or not they are disruptive and will, in fact, provide the scientific legal framework for industry. the compromise text also takes account of the issue of bees and their indispensable role in the ecosystem. i think that the wording of the compromise attached to the european commission's statement is a major step forward. the effects of the active substances on the overall development of the bee, but also on nectar and pollen, shall be considered. i would like to reassure some stakeholders who have expressed doubts about the availability of active substances and products. this compromise takes into account their fears. the three-zone system ensures that member states can authorise a greater number of products. there is also a possibility of derogations. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment. there is also the review clause, which asks the european commission to analyse the impact of this legislation on the diversification and competitiveness of agriculture. finally, and most importantly, as my colleagues have pointed out, we are encouraging the manufacturers of pesticides to develop new products which are effective and respectful of human health and the environment. in conclusion, i would like to remind you that plant protection products are medicines for plants and should therefore only be used in a controlled and prudent manner. these texts recognise and will further emphasise the role of integrated production in a sound and sustainable agriculture. the two texts we have adopted manage to strike a balance between protecting health and the environment and ensuring that farmers have access to products. in conclusion, i would like to say how much i have enjoyed working with you, colleagues, on this very sensitive subject. our work has been, i believe, an example of listening, of mutual understanding and cooperation. i thank the honourable members and congratulate in particular our two rapporteurs, mrs klaß and mrs breyer, who have been excellent negotiators in seeking a compromise with the council.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs. we now know that while plant protection products have greatly increased agricultural production, they also have, for some of them, a very negative impact on health and the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the pesticides are used in the community, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. in some areas, there is a particularly rapid increase in various types of cancer. the children of users, especially farmers, are also affected. beyond this essential health issue, it is also the impact on the environment that must be measured. we already know the harmful effects of certain chemicals on groundwater and rivers. i do not think that the proposal to refer the question of buffer zones to the various national arbitration bodies is a satisfactory answer. i think, on the contrary, that the commission will have to be very vigilant on this matter. there is also an increase in soil erosion which could threaten the agricultural use of much of the european union in the coming decades. the fertility of these lands is decreasing sharply. the european union is reacting to these risks: it is good; but it must also help farmers to reduce or even eliminate harmful pesticides. the future common agricultural policy must incorporate this objective and better take account of the link between quality production and agriculture in financial terms. research in agronomy, ecotoxicology and training for farmers must be put at the service of new production methods and spread over the territories according to their specific characteristics. i shall simply end by quoting the title of a film which has just been released, which relates to the subject of this evening and is entitled 'tomorrow our children will accuse us'.
madam president, i would of course like to congratulate our rapporteurs and then welcome the agreement that has been reached thanks to the remarkable work they have done with the help of the european commission and the council. this is an agreement which i consider particularly important because it is a balanced agreement which takes into account the interests of everyone, that is to say, the protection of the health of the consumer - the consumer who is concerned whenever pesticides are mentioned, who is concerned when he hears that pesticide residues contaminate fruit, vegetables and cereals. the reduction objective contained in the agreement, with the elimination of carcinogenic and genotoxic substances, is therefore very important. protection of the environment and biodiversity, including the problem of bees, protection of water, protection of our soils, of course. the farmer too must be protected, the farmer who is the first to be affected by the use of these pesticides, who will be pleased to see the harmonization of regulations, the simplification of procedures, who will be able to continue to use certain substances which he needs for agriculture, but an agriculture which we want to be sustainable today. the chemical industry, which agriculture needs, must also evolve, find alternative solutions. with this text, the notions of danger and risk can no longer be confused. pesticides are obviously dangerous, but it is the way they are used that determines whether they pose a risk to the professional, the consumer and the environment. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of information centres. i would like to conclude by saying that it is absolutely essential to harmonize import controls. because we cannot demand a number of things from our farmers and then continue to bring products into the european union that do not comply with our regulations. there would be a risk of unfair competition.
madam president, the proposals in the report are in the right direction and i congratulate the rapporteurs on this. it is true, as the commission says, that pesticides are largely a matter for the common agricultural policy, but it is also true that such a directive must aim to have the environment and public health as its broad legal basis. its scope cannot be reduced to a simple problem of market harmonisation or competitiveness. i would like to see the case of the french outermost regions of martinique and guadeloupe where, in the case of martinique, 20% of the soil, 20% of the island's surface, i.e. an area of 1 000 km2, is polluted for an indefinite period by the chlordecone molecule, the persistence of which is not known. a molecule that has polluted not only the soil but also surface waters, some groundwater and the coastal area in marine waters, to the great detriment of our economy. and who thinks about the current public health problems? if it is not too late, i would advise parliament to study the case of martinique, which france knows very well. it is essential that this directive aims at a strong reduction in the use of chemical pesticides, in particular by promoting sustainable alternatives such as organic farming and biopesticides. it will be to the honour of parliament! finally, let us not forget - and this has been mentioned many times - the damage caused by pesticides to wildlife, especially bees. parliament must also be vigilant with regard to free trade products, in particular agricultural products from countries which are not strict about the use of pesticides.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, following the trilogue between the council, parliament and the commission, the text adopted on 18 december on the pesticide package seems to be well balanced. it takes account of the interests of farmers and the need to protect the environment, including protected areas. i have followed this matter closely and i am pleased with the result, which will allow farmers to continue their economic activity without being penalized by the complete elimination of pesticides and plant protection products, which will be strictly controlled. i would remind you that the producers of acidic fruit and vegetables in my region of normandy have been at the forefront of agro-environmental issues for several years. the council and the european parliament have fortunately found a very useful common ground in this period of uncertainty, aggravated by the cap's output balance and the threats to the agricultural budget. finally, we will always stand with farmers in defending their means of work and their irreplaceable role in society, which is first to feed their fellow men and then to preserve the landscape and develop the territory to the satisfaction of all. in the face of irresponsible pressure from environmentalists, it is comforting that common sense has prevailed.
mrs. mcguinness, you have a point of order.
the joint discussion is closed. we are not going to reopen the debate. i call mrs breyer.
we are not going to have another debate, but i would urge you to continue it in the corridors. the joint debate is closed and the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the oral question to the commission on the action plan on urban mobility, by paolo costa, on behalf of the tran committee, and gerardo galeote, on behalf of the deve committee (o-0143/2008 - b6-0002/2009).
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, you have just confirmed the initiative that the european parliament intends to take on this matter. you have just told us that, for obvious reasons, namely the importance of urban transport in transport and the objectives of the european climate plan, the european union cannot disregard urban transport. mr barrault, before you, had taken the initiative of a green paper, promising us a plan of action. today you cannot refuse us this action plan and explain to us that you are implementing it behind the scenes, without parliament's deliberations, without parliament's control, without any visibility. that is why i have succeeded in getting my colleagues - and i must thank them, especially reinhard rack, who has made a great deal of progress - to produce the action plan in an own-initiative report before the elections, which is something that is totally unusual for the european parliament. this totally heterodox initiative will have considerable political weight since it will question the new european commissioner responsible for transport, who will be heard by the committee on transport, and will therefore have a very strong influence on its approval by the european parliament. i think it is regrettable that the european commission is now giving in to the slightest objection from any member state. and it is precisely because we are concerned about this development, which is an institutional drift, in which the european commission has decided to no longer play the community card, but strictly intergovernmental, that we are encouraged today in our desire to negotiate among ourselves an action plan, to propose it to you and to ensure that the next commissioner for transport clearly commits himself to follow it up.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, with all due respect to your office and to you, i will allow myself two comments following your speech. you tried to drown the fish or you missed the big break. you reminded us of the various chapters that should be included in this action plan and i think my colleagues and i can only be pleased that the bulk of our proposals are indeed included in this list. you are therefore giving us proof that you have all the information within the commission to publish this action plan in all its components. i think there are four possible explanations for your first sentence in part two, which, if i understand the translation correctly, is that the conditions are not favourable. the first possible hypothesis is whether there is a lack of technical information in the transport dg. the information provided by mr barrot in the green paper seems to suggest that the commission is, on the contrary, very well equipped with technical information. assumption two: you say the conditions are not favorable. would some member states be opposed to this plan? but, commissioner, as far as i know, the commission is independent of the member states. i cannot believe for a moment that you would have given in to the pressure of some member states. thirdly, are there any differences within the commission itself which would prevent you from presenting this action plan to us? god, i hope not! finally, would you refuse to debate the current european parliament and postpone it until next year? given the excellent relations which have been nurtured between us and vice-president barrot during the green paper, i dare not believe that. we are, madam commissioner, a few weeks away from the elections. i think this action plan is a good example of how europe, while respecting subsidiarity, is close to our citizens in their health problems, etc., which you have mentioned. i deeply regret this delay and i hope, like my colleagues, that you will be able to remedy it as soon as possible.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the oral question to the commission on the revision of the communication on broadcasting - state aid to public broadcasters, by cornelis visser, ivo belet and ruth hieronymi, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (o-0102/2008 - b6-0495/2008).
in writing. parliament's mobilisation following the hunger riots has made it possible to raise €1 billion to fight the food crisis. beyond this emergency measure, i would like to stress the need for a long-term global strategy based on local agriculture and food and adapted to the needs of the people and the potential of the territories. indeed, the increase in the world's population, global warming, uncontrolled production of agrofuels, and aggressive speculation are all factors that increase tensions in agricultural markets. these factors indicate that the crisis will not be a passing one and that a comprehensive rethink of public policies will be required to improve production methods and the regulation of international markets. i believe that the cap, corrected for its excesses and imperfections, could become an example of an effective, equitable and responsible policy, responding to the food challenge, combining both economic, social and environmental aspects. it must also help developing countries by sharing european techniques, knowledge and experience. but above all, europe must work to reform the rules of global trade so that they do not interfere with the right of countries to support their agriculture to ensure their food security.
in writing. this report on the cap and global food security provided a great opportunity to reflect on how european agriculture can play a full part in achieving the world's food balance. while food requirements are continuing to increase worldwide, the share of development aid devoted to agriculture has been steadily declining since the 1980s. that is why i tabled a number of amendments in the committee on agriculture and rural development to make this report more ambitious and in particular to propose that the european commission adopt a comprehensive strategy on food safety issues, allowing for greater coherence between all the union's community policies. while i welcome the fact that this text stresses the crucial role of the cap in achieving the objective of food security, i regret that the rapporteur advocates a greater market orientation of agricultural policy and blames environmental protection initiatives for a reduction in agricultural production in europe. i think that this is a completely wrong statement and i think that it is necessary to address the problem of climate change in order to develop new models for producing more and better.
in writing. the eu now urgently needs to strengthen agricultural health security and address major challenges. first, agriculture will have to double its production in 30 years because the world's population will reach 9 billion by 2050. yet, 860 million people still suffer from hunger. this development must be sustainable and based on local agriculture as a priority. the massive fluctuation in world food prices and the proper management of global stocks pose another challenge. in order to guarantee fair incomes for european farmers, i support the idea that insurance policies should provide farmers with greater protection against price fluctuations, as well as the initiative to establish a global food inventory system. finally, given the increase in trade in animals and plants, the eu must implement an effective strategy to prevent any health crisis in europe based on prevention, traceability and responsiveness. in this sense, the recent decision of the council of ministers to strengthen and harmonize import controls will make it possible to better guarantee the quality of food products to our fellow citizens. agriculture plays a more central role in growth and development than ever before. so we must protect her at all costs!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to congratulate our rapporteur, wolf klinz, on the remarkable work he has done in securing broad agreement in the economic committee and negotiating a very satisfactory compromise with the presidency. the legal affairs committee, which was called upon to deliver its opinion, made its observations, which were taken into account. the original ucits directive was the key to the development of european investment funds. in june 2007, ucits assets under management amounted to eur 6 trillion, and ucits accounted for around 75% of the eu investment fund market. the internal guarantees of ucits explain their recognition by investors well beyond the european area. but the regulations had to change to encourage the development of these funds. the amendments introduced in 2001 opened up new areas of investment for ucits but left some bottlenecks. the green paper has launched a public debate; in 2005, it was followed by a white paper. the proposal which is now before us is a welcome step forward in terms of efficiency. the most significant advance is the recognition of a european passport for management companies. the proposed provisions will make it possible to implement this passport for management companies while ensuring adequate protection for investors. it is a complete passport and we are looking forward to it. the planned monitoring measures will certainly be effective enough to remove any doubts that may have been expressed. the proposal also provides for important technical improvements, for example in the area of notifications, crossborder mergers and the pooling of funds through master-feeder structures. the harmonization thus achieved will also guarantee fair conditions of competition throughout the european union, subject to the reservations already made by our rapporteur about the measures to be taken in the tax field to avoid distortions.
mr president, mr rapporteur, thank you for your work, your commitment and your ability to negotiate. ucits are a kind of trademark of the european financial markets, they are a good export product. but within the european union, we have imbalances because this is an area where there are producer countries and consumer countries, so there are different strategies. one of the objectives of the revision of this directive is to organise, under these conditions, the effective functioning of an internal market for ucits. the first, which has already been discussed a great deal in this debate, is obviously the question of the management passport and i heard the commissioner tell us that he was afraid that this passport would be poorly prepared. but, mr commissioner, it was still necessary to prepare it: i sometimes had the impression that this was not the commissioner's intention. i therefore welcome the negotiations which have been initiated at the initiative of the european parliament and the council to ensure that when this ucits directive is revised, we adopt a genuine management passport which allows the internal market of the european union to function under normal conditions. the second observation concerns the issues in terms of retention. if, when the crd is revised, we require banks to hold 5% of the securitisations they put on the market, then the retention requirements in the field of ucits will have to be harmonised immediately and under similar conditions - because the same risks must lead to the same rules. my third observation concerns the issues in terms of supervision. i believe that no one here can doubt our determination to improve the conditions of supervision. we are all awaiting the results of the working group headed by jacques de larosière, which was set up by president barroso. i believe that the challenges are such that we cannot wait long for the implementation of the findings of this working group and that this will have an impact on the conditions for the organisation of supervision between the operators, producers and consumers of ucits. the challenges in terms of supervision in this area will therefore have to be addressed. finally, my final comment concerns the taxation issues. the rapporteur has said a word about it, the commissioner has committed himself to it. there are, behind the tax issues, protectionist tendencies that do not speak their name and that we must denounce, that we want to overcome. to this end, the commission must take initiatives to ensure that there is taxation on ucits which allows genuine free movement of these products without protectionism.
president of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. - mr president, the euro is the success of a vision, of political will, it is not the fruit of the market, it is the proof of what europe can do best when everyone is mobilized. i want to greet and thank, for us, for our children, for each of us, the founding fathers and the architects of this success. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i also want to commend the action of your predecessors, mr president, the action of my predecessors, karl von wogau, who is still with us, and christa randzio-plath, who is also with us today. the action of this parliament was decisive in ensuring that, at the time of the changeover to the euro, people were not only concerned with the transfer of accounts to the banks, but also with the citizens, with how they could get used to, get used to, adopt this new currency which was to be theirs. and i think that this action of our institution should be welcomed and remembered. i am also pleased that this ceremony can take place here in the european parliament, the home of democracy, the home of the european citizens, because the euro is first and foremost a matter for everyone, before it is a matter for the banks. it is the europeans' and they tell us so. some governments do not want to give europe symbols. but europeans themselves have adopted the euro as a symbol of membership of the european union. so, of course, we are not all endowed with the euro. we were eleven, we are sixteen. we're waiting for others to join us. and yet i have the impression that this crisis is inviting some to reconsider whether or not they should be part of the euro. i think that's the best proof of success. europe, as is often the case, is moving forward by demonstrating its efficiency and on the occasion of its tenth anniversary we can see that the euro's record is largely positive, that some who were hesitant might now knock on the door of the euro zone. we can only encourage them to do so under the terms of the treaty, which have never been revised and which are necessary conditions for europe to make progress in the economic and monetary fields on these two pillars: deepening and enlargement. but an anniversary is also a time to look to the future and the euro, rich with its ten years, must now open up new fields. not that we haven't dealt with them at all, but because they are still progressing ahead of us. on economic cooperation, jean-claude juncker described the imbalance we are experiencing. he's not normal; and in the current crisis, we all know that if we had progressed in economic union as fast as we have progressed in monetary union, we would be even better off today. let us learn from them! it is not right that we should look only at the balance of budget deficits and not at the quality of public spending. governments must learn to talk together about economic policy. it is not normal for member states to borrow at such different rates when they have the same currency, the same interest rate set by the central bank. the same applies to the supervision of financial markets. president valéry giscard d'estaing mentioned article 105 (6), which is our common basis on which we can make progress. i think one of the lessons of this crisis is to show that the central bank will have to play a supervisory role. we do not want to disconnect financial market supervision and macroprudential supervision. but this will also require us as politicians to think about balance. if the central bank sees its responsibilities strengthened, then it will be necessary to say how the overall institutional balance should live in the future. one final point on the international role of the euro. i agree that we should not claim the exorbitant privilege of being the reserve currency, but it is not right that we have taken ten years to build the euro and that ten years after the changeover to the euro we are still passive on the international stage and that the strong voice of the euro in rebalancing the international monetary system is not better heard. finally, the euro, i believe, is much more than a currency, which is why it is a major issue for this parliament, it is a tool at the service of the citizens, our citizens who are going through the most serious crisis in years, and we must use this wonderful achievement, this symbol of europe, to help our citizens get through this crisis in the best possible conditions.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president of the republic, mr prime minister, mr president of the european central bank, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleagues, a great deal has been said and well said so far. the euro has become the strong symbol of europe in ten years, and yet the idea that europe could create a common currency, the premises of which had been laid down in particular by the monetary agreement of bremen in 1978, and the creation of the ecu was met at the time with scepticism on the markets and by the high monetary authorities outside europe. all those who have had a part in this decision and whose names have been mentioned deserve our warmest congratulations and thanks. the creation of the euro is the best proof that europe is capable, if there is a strong political will, of taking long-term decisions for a common and prosperous future. so this anniversary gives us a message of hope that is particularly timely in our time. it must be said, however, that until recently, the perception of the euro among our fellow citizens was mixed. for those who travel, the advantage of a single currency was obvious, for those who are sedentary, the euro was associated with a rise in prices. in fact, studies have shown that in most countries there was inflation, whereas official figures showed that monetary stability was ensured, thanks in particular to the action of the european central bank. the reality is that some people have certainly taken advantage of the euro to round off certain prices and perhaps consumers have not been vigilant enough. we also heard from some industrialists who produce a large proportion of their products in the euro zone and sell outside the euro zone, when the euro appreciated against the dollar. the central bank has not been immune to criticism, which has not so much called into question its independence as its policy of interest rates which seemed too high. today, the crisis has changed most of these assessments. everyone understands that the euro is a decisive factor in limiting the european repercussions of a crisis imported from the united states. the european central bank has certainly been the most reactive central bank. its particularly relevant decisions were unanimously welcomed. what would have happened if the individual states had had to defend their own currencies individually? devaluations would have been inevitable, we would not have avoided a currency crisis. the positive results of the euro should encourage us to continue and strengthen the coordination of economic policies and to respect the principles of the stability and growth pact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the long term, good public finances and economic policies are more necessary than ever. they are the key to efficiency, competitiveness and growth. they are the condition for the strength of our currency, the euro.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to recall how in 1992, when the french vote for the maastricht treaty was in full debate, jacques delors spoke to the general assembly of the greens, who could move the missing 1 or 2%. he told us: "vote for the euro, then there will be political europe, because if political europe is not made to control europe, the peoples will not accept it, they will never accept it". he hadn't convinced us. the maastricht treaty had been signed, but political europe had not been achieved. and that's the problem we face today. why were we against the euro at that time? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the name of central bank independence, monetary policy would be separated from the rest of policy. i must say quite frankly today that while i am still not convinced by the maastricht treaty, i am, like all the greens, rather fascinated by the developments in the legislation and practice of economic and monetary union. there were three major changes. first, the fixing of price stability at a level somewhat lower but close to 2%. that goal may seem a little far-fetched. today, when deflation is threatening the world, and the situation is aggravated by the tendency of some countries to hastily reduce their vat as part of a keynesian policy, it is obvious that setting this 2% target is no longer a stylistic clause. if we cannot hold that 2%, we run the risk of unintended and highly positive real interest rates. the second major reform is, of course, the reform of the stability pact in 2005, which now allows us to have a countercyclical and anti-crisis policy. the third big transformation is the transformation of practice. the constant dialogue between mr trichet, mr almunia, mr juncker and mr barroso, which is illustrated in this forum, is in direct contradiction with the maastricht treaty itself. i consider that this form of cooperation between mr trichet and mr almunia, for example, equivalent to that between mr bernanke and mr paulson, represents a positive and desirable development. so what's left to do? i would simply say that we really need to apply the good aspects of the maastricht treaty. we have a real problem with the definition of the exchange rate, as my predecessors have said many times. this exchange rate is allocated to the council, we must find ways of ensuring that the council sets a european exchange rate which is not the result of the european central bank's random choice of interest rates but is really the expression of an industrial policy. we must find the instruments. secondly, the central bank's objective is not only to have a rate close to 2%, but also to apply europe's policy, that is to say the lisbon-göteborg policy. we must have a policy of refinancing and re-calculating private debts by the central bank in accordance with the göteborg-lisbon principle. thirdly, as has already been said, there must be european supervision, and the central bank is best placed to carry it out.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
we'll take it to the proper authorities.
we're adjourning the court. we shall resume the explanations of vote after the formal sitting.
mr president of the republic of latvia, my dear mr valdis zatlers! it is a great pleasure for all of us to welcome you to the european parliament for the first time today. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for accepting the invitation of the european parliament to address us today - on the same day as we celebrate the 10th anniversary of our common currency, the euro - as president of your country, a new member of the european union. it is also a first in every way, because it was the first time that the european anthem was played to welcome a state guest here in the european parliament. (applause from the centre) on the occasion of your visit today, allow me to recall the historic importance of the enlargement of the european union in 2004. it has taken more than 60 years to bring your country back into the fold of a free and democratic europe and to unite our continent. we live in peace, freedom and democracy. our citizens enjoy prospects that our ancestors could only have dreamed of. and we should and must be very happy about that. but today the european union is facing new and major challenges. the people of latvia have also felt this very clearly, for example through the financial crisis which has hit your country hard, mr president. the gas crisis between russia and ukraine is also a cause for concern, and rightly so, not only for the citizens of latvia. it is precisely in times of crisis that the value of membership of a european union based on the principle of solidarity between its peoples is shown. it is precisely in this time of crisis that we all feel the importance of the community and of cooperation between our countries and the european institutions. we are stronger together, and together we can better defend our interests and values worldwide. the european parliament therefore calls for the early entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which will give the european union greater capacity to deal with these major challenges. in this context, the european parliament elections to be held in june of this year are also of great importance. together, in a democratic european union with a european parliament that is involved in almost all decision-making, we want to continue the success story of the european project of peace and unity. i very much hope that the citizens of latvia and of all the other member states of the european union will become aware of the importance of their vote as a means of european participation and will take part in the forthcoming european parliament elections in large numbers. mr president, it is a great pleasure to ask you to address the european parliament. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. (applause from the centre)
in writing. i am well aware that the belder report is concerned solely with economic and trade relations with the western balkans and the obvious need for the european union to help with their reconstruction, both economically and legally, politically and socially. i am surprised, however, that despite the assertion that this aid, like the accession processes, must be differentiated and adapted to each country, it is not really taken into account in the report on the specific situations of each country. serbia, for example, is not even mentioned. and above all, this parliament, always so quick to denounce violations of human rights all over the world, or to call for 'human rights' clauses in its international cooperation agreements, succeeds in the feat of voting a report on the balkans without mentioning once the dramatic and unacceptable situation of the serb populations of kosovo, who have become pariahs on the historic land of their ancestors. but by welcoming the hundreds of millions of euros donated to the authorities who cause, organize or tolerate this situation.
in writing. ms grabrowska's report calls for a permanent dialogue between all the european institutions and civil society 'representatives' for policy-making and legislation at the european level, i.e. the mandatory and formalised organisation of participatory 'democracy' at eu level. the problem is that participatory 'democracy' is the fake nose of those who reject genuine democracy: it allows dialogue to be limited to the most activist organisations, which are rarely the most representative; it pretends to take the opinion of the citizens upstream, only to refuse to really consult them later. if the europe of brussels claims to want to listen to the citizens, let it take note of the french and dutch 'no's' to the european constitution and abandon the treaty of lisbon, which is only a copy of it. if, as the rapporteur suggests, opinion polls are to be taken into account, then the accession negotiations with turkey should be stopped, since the vast majority of european citizens are hostile to them. if the principle of decision-making as close as possible to the citizen is to be respected, europe must stop governing our daily lives. then she'll be credible when she talks about democracy.
in writing. we abstained on the weiler report on the protection of consumers and businesses against unfair practices and misleading advertising, because we are critical of its importance. the first is that european legislation on these subjects is in the form of directives, i.e. member states are relatively free in the means they use to achieve the objectives assigned to them. the rapporteur's wishes for the harmonisation of national legislation in both form and substance must remain wishes, unless they lead to unacceptable interference by the european union in the legal and administrative systems of the member states, without any real benefit for consumers. the second is that the main added value of the european union in these areas would be to help resolve crossborder disputes. the problem is not really solved in the texts in force or required. the main objective of such legislation should not be to exist for its own sake, but to protect consumers and businesses.
in writing. impact studies carried out by french institutes and technical centres show that the proposed revision of the european pesticide directive could lead to the disappearance of a large number of products currently available on the market. it is important that this project empowers farmers in the union to protect their crops. otherwise, production cuts for crop sectors would be very significant and could also have a significant impact on animal sectors. whole plant life could be condemned in france and europe and the very role of agriculture, which is to feed our fellow citizens with healthy and varied products, would be threatened. without compromising consumer and user protection, the new regulation must not jeopardise the diversity of chemical families and innovation. it must therefore immediately provide for alternative solutions. this is the only way to avoid the relocation of many agricultural products which provide jobs and wealth. in the face of all these crucial challenges for farmers, vegetable, fruit and cereal producers, it is important to continue to be vigilant about the reforms under way and the national implementing measures that will be taken.
in writing. with this text, which limits the production and marketing of pesticides, and the accompanying text, which regulates their use, europe is finally setting itself exemplary standards for pesticides. the report by mrs hiltrud breyer is indeed moving in the right direction. on the one hand, it allows the placing on the market of products which are not dangerous; it also bans 22 substances considered to be very harmful. if we are to have a world-wide, rational agriculture in the long run, we must welcome this advance by the european union. european agriculture, which uses plant protection products in abundance, will not be weakened. on the other hand, eu legislation is becoming more stringent in the fight against toxic pesticides with these texts.
in writing. what i take away from mrs gottardi's report on public finances is that it does not draw any lessons from the global crisis. mrs gottardi calls 'market failure' and 'a lack of supervision' what is in reality the failure of a system that has been imposed on us for decades: that of forced deregulation, of global ultra-trading, of the absurd financialization of the economy, of the market king supposed to self-regulate. it is not the partial replans decided upon vaguely at the g20 or in brussels that will fundamentally change the situation. it would require a re-examination of the economic dogmas to which we are still subject. the crisis has shown that the free movement of goods, services, capital and people leads not to prosperity but to catastrophe. it also proved that the nation state is the relevant and effective level of decision, action and reaction, even if nicolas sarkozy felt obliged to be accompanied everywhere by mr barroso to make believe that the european union was useful in this situation. in this context, the rapporteur's sound advice on public financial management and his call for respect for the stability pact are unfortunately of little use.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, when the regulation establishing standards for security features and the inclusion of biometric features in european passports was adopted in 2004, member states did not provide for any derogation from the obligation to give fingerprints. however, current experience shows that existing technology does not yet ensure that the fingerprints of children under 12 years of age are sufficiently reliable to be used as a security element in passports. i therefore welcome the compromise reached with the member states to set an age limit of 12 years for the collection of biometric data, with a review clause in three years. and we have accepted the derogation for member states which have already adopted legislation for children over six years of age. the use of such data would only be acceptable if it actually protected our children. it's not yet. but we are also open to the possibility of positive developments in technology in this field. our priority is to ensure the safety of children traveling alone to prevent any kidnapping or trafficking of children. the inclusion of data in passports gives a false impression of security because it does not prevent a child from crossing a border without parental authorisation. the compromise reached with the member states will enable the commission to present a report on the requirements for minors travelling alone when crossing external borders. the report will thus make it possible to propose initiatives to ensure a european approach to the rules on the protection of minors when crossing the external borders of the member states. finally, biometric elements in passports should only be used to verify the authenticity of the document and the use of sensitive personal data such as biometric elements is only acceptable with strict rules on the protection of personal data.
mr president, i would like to take a moment to thank you, mr coelho, and to say that it is a great pleasure to work with you because you always show a very high level of competence, you have a real capacity for listening and analysis and it is thanks to you that we have reached this result.
mr president, i would like to follow exactly the line taken by mr schwab a few moments ago. i would like to say that the adoption of this directive today is an important decision and we owe it to the very remarkable efforts of our rapporteur, mr lambsdorff, of our fictitious rapporteur, charlotte cederschiöld, whom i thank, and of course of the french presidency which, at the end of last year, made a very great effort to reach a compromise. what we are doing today is actually completing a cycle that has been remarkably rapid, that is to say, a few months, which includes both the directive on the internal market for defence products, adopted in december, the export code of conduct, which became positive law at the same time, and finally this directive which consists of reconciling article 296 of the treaty with the common rules on public procurement. in fact, all of this - i would venture to say - is leading to what i would call the 'communitarisation' of the defence economy, which of course may seem heretical in relation to the concern for sovereignty or the very characteristics of defence policies. in fact, this reflects a desire for integration with respect to state sovereignty. the same is true of justice. throughout the french presidency and since the portuguese and slovenian presidencies, enormous progress has been made in an area where, once again, national sovereignty has tried to prevent any agreement or cooperation. in fact, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting such a text, i believe we are contributing to the exhaustion of the ideological debate on the nature and form of the european construction. it is a space, it is a power, it is a power and we will know this more and more in terms of defence and foreign policy.
this discussion is over. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for question time (b6-0001/2009) and the debate is closed. we are going to deal with a series of questions to the commission.
question no 30 by colm burke (h-0992/08) subject: ten years of the euroin view of the recent celebrations of the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the euro, could the commission set out the main lessons learned in terms of fiscal policy coordination in the euro area, particularly in the light of the recent financial and economic crisis?
question no 31 by paulo casaca (h-1016/08) subject: fall in the prices of dairy products on the european marketaccording to a european commission working document on monitoring price developments from october 2007 to october 2008, annexed to the communication on food prices in europe, of 21 november, page 9, the price of butter on the european market has fallen by 30% and that of milk powder by 40%, bringing us inexorably closer to intervention prices. does the commission consider that the proposal to increase milk production ceilings which it put forward a year ago and which was approved by the european parliament and the council should be maintained in the light of market developments? does the commission consider that the regulatory limits on intervention for milk powder and butter will be sufficient to avoid disastrous consequences for the incomes of farmers like those in the azores, whose activity is totally dependent on the markets for dairy products such as milk powder and butter?
question no 32 by johan van hecke (h-1018/08) subject: microcreditin may 2008, commissioner mariann fischer boel proposed to use eu funds previously earmarked for export subsidies, price support and surplus storage for microcredit to enable farmers in developing countries to buy seeds and fertilisers. microcredit is certainly an important tool in the fight against poverty and an instrument in the service of the millennium development goals. in a written declaration, parliament itself had already expressed its support for an increase in funds for micro-credit projects in april 2008. what practical action has the commission taken so far on this proposal?
mr. allister, i had no knowledge of your request at all. if i had known, i would have given you the floor, of course.
i'm sorry, i'm being told that no one saw you.
question no 33 by marian harkin (h-0970/08) subject: budget reformthe results of the public consultation on 'reforming the budget - changing europe' revealed a request to the commission to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of budget implementation by increasing transparency and public access to the budget. in addition, the recent publication of the court of auditors' 2007 report made several recommendations in terms of cost/risk balance, monitoring and reporting, as well as simplification of instruments and improvement of information and control provided by the member states. can the commission explain what measures it intends to take to respond to the main findings of the public consultation and the court of auditors' report in order to increase performance and reduce administrative burdens?
question no 34 by mairead mcguinness (h-0996/08) subject: reform of the etuc budget does the commission consider that the recent public consultation 'reform the budget, change europe' reflects the opinion of the majority of european citizens? is the 'single message' conveyed by 'hundreds of voices' really representative of the whole of eu opinion? can the commission set out the main conclusions to be drawn in this respect and what it considers will be the major changes in eu spending in the future? in particular, what are the main reforms that the commission expects to see in agricultural expenditure?
question no 35 by seán ó neachtain (h-0972/08) subject: online crime with the constant advancement of technology and more people using the internet, it is becoming increasingly difficult to police the network of networks. what is the commission doing to combat online crime at eu level?
question no 36 by liam aylward (h-0978/08) subject: terrorist threats the terrorist attacks in bombay last november put the lives of many european citizens at risk. in the light of the attacks in madrid and london in 2004 and 2005 respectively, it is clear that similar attacks targeting the european union are to be feared. could the commission state what measures are being taken to improve the exchange of information between the police forces of the member states in order to deal with such events?
question no 37 by armando francia (h-0979/08) subject: eu immigration policysince eu immigration policy should have a strong humanist component and ensure respect for human rights, it should promote measures of integration and not repression, measures to equate the rights and obligations of immigrants with those of nationals, measures to promote cooperation between member states and between them and the countries of origin, solutions that strengthen intercultural dialogue and respect for differences, minorities and freedom and, given that the french republic has already signed protocols with several african states, in particular congo-brazzaville, tunisia, benin, mauritius, senegal and gabon, in order to promote the possibility of immigration and legal development assistance, what legal assistance does the european commission intend to provide for the same process and how do the member states intend to engage in it?
questions which have not been answered due to lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
question no 51 by emmanouil angelakas (h-0983/08) subject: opening up of the 'closed' professions in view of the objective of the single market in terms of the free movement of persons, goods and services, the commission is working to promote the 'opening up' of so-called closed professions in all member states where closed professions are a reality, and this approach should generally be welcomed. are there cases where "closed" professions can remain as they are provided that they successfully serve the whole body of society in the provision of services without creating problems? what are the possible negative effects of opening up certain closed occupational activities? has the commission carried out impact studies (impact of results) on local communities, in particular in regions with specific characteristics (mountain regions, island regions, etc.)?
question no 52 by georgios papastamkos (h-0984/08) subject: bodies responsible for assessing the degree of solvency the commissioner for internal market and services, mr charlie mccreevy, said of the regulatory framework for credit rating agencies: 'i want europe to play a leading role in this area. our proposal goes beyond the rules applicable in other legal systems. these very strict rules are essential to restore market confidence in creditworthiness assessments in the european union.' can the commission state why it did not submit a proposal for a stricter regulatory framework before the financial crisis?
question no 53 by gay mitchell (h-0990/08) subject: financial crisisin the light of the current financial crisis, has the commission amended the internal market rules to make it easier for member states to adopt protective measures for their economies and industries?
questions which have not been answered due to lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am always surprised when health matters are dealt with by the directorate for enterprise and industry. but when you read the proposals on patient information, you quickly realise that the medicine is treated in some ways as a consumer product. on this subject, i would argue that information provided by the industry itself, outside of labelling and regulatory notices, is called advertising and it is its repetition that makes it a competitive commercial asset. the commission may well put forward certain provisions which should form part of its proposals, but it can always tell us that it is the patient associations which are looking forward to such provisions. we are not the only ones who are not fooled by the impact of this directive on patient information and the disadvantage it represents in relation to the real objective of improving the health of europeans. we can already be sure that if this text were adopted, the marketing budget of the pharmaceutical industry would be greatly increased, certainly to the detriment of the research budget. already today, 23 percent of revenues are spent on promotional activities and only 17 percent on research activities, and if we look at the united states and new zealand, which already allow this kind of advertising, we know that it has increased the volume of prescriptions and healthcare spending without any improvement in the quality of care and health status of the american or new zealander population. may this experience be useful to us. finally, i will conclude by saying that a modern solution would be to trust more or better train health professionals to provide information about prescription treatments and medications.
madam president, sustainable fisheries management does indeed involve monitoring fishing effort, but it also requires taking account of the effort of fishermen. the fisheries sector, everyone agrees, especially deep sea fishing or deep sea fishing, is the most difficult in the world, even if we are no longer in the fishing conditions of the basques, the icelanders of the 19th century, who set out on long campaigns. the profession remains very tough and deserves respect with its 24,000 deaths annually. fisheries is the perfect example of global activity because of the globalisation of resources, that is, fish, which know no borders, so the standards can only be international. as it is a matter of international regulation of fishermen's work, the legislator is obviously the ilo and we are celebrating the 50th anniversary of the first ilo conventions on fishermen, on minimum age, on workplace control, on medical examination and on housing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. all this must of course be ratified as soon as possible, before 2012. it is a good example of the joint management of the common parts of the planetary co-ownership and it is an emergency because the professions of the sea, of dockers, of fishermen, of sailors, in today's global economic competition, are exposed to all the abuses, all the exploitations, all the trafficking, even all the situations of slavery, in the name of obviously reducing costs. legal protection is therefore imperative for health, housing, safety, working time, living conditions, wages, medical care and therefore employment contracts and social security. so we are creating a minimum legal status for the fisherman and in this respect we are leveling the playing field for global competition. this is not necessarily of interest to european fishermen who already have this, but for fishermen from the world, from peru, from asia or from africa, it is a great step forward.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, the czech presidency, which has just taken office, is faced with considerable difficulties and is entrusted with the heavy task of managing three major crises. the continuing economic and social crisis, the gas conflict between russia and ukraine, which is seriously affecting the union and its neighbours, and the outbreak of a new war in the middle east. in the face of these challenges, the only way forward for our countries is to stand together, to show solidarity and to act in a coordinated and determined manner. i am pleased to note that the czech presidency, in close liaison with the european commission, has acted swiftly and unitedly in the energy conflict between kiev and moscow. even if the solution is not there yet, we cannot accept being held hostage, we must react forcefully. you are right, mr president of the council and mr president of the commission. by including energy among its three major priorities, the czech presidency had identified one of europe's major challenges for the coming years, namely our energy independence and the necessary diversification of our energy resources. the epp-ed group, like all european citizens, is extremely concerned about this conflict and the threat it poses to european countries as a whole. we cannot tolerate the member states of the union being held hostage in this conflict, and it demonstrates once again the urgent need to agree on a european energy policy. we must therefore seriously consider ways of reducing our dependence and take action to achieve an energy mix. the situation in the middle east, ladies and gentlemen, reminds us again of the need to assume our responsibilities on a global scale. the european union is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, and we can be proud of that, and we must continue to do so, but humanitarian aid alone will not solve the conflict between israelis and palestinians. what europe needs is a strong, articulated political will and sufficient human, military and financial resources to be a credible player in the world. why is the world staring at barack obama? because europe is not yet able to assert its vision, its ideals and its know-how. europe has rightly criticised the unilateralism of the present us administration and if, as i hope, things change with the new occupant of the bank house, are we prepared to ensure our share of multilateralism? are we prepared to unleash the military means, not to make war, but to ensure peace? are we prepared to allocate the budgetary resources needed to give us the means for our policy? mr president-in-office of the council, you have rightly made the union's external relations one of your priorities. the news provides many examples of the urgency of finally addressing this issue, whether in relations with russia, the united states, the middle east, not to mention the mediterranean, the balkans, africa or the emerging countries. european citizens expect europe to have a global impact, as all opinion polls have shown for years. why wait? the european council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial and technical assistance is fully integrated into the eu's external policies. we call on the czech presidency to work hand in hand with the european commission to define and implement, with our international partners, rules that will be binding on economic operators. the european union must defend its model of society, the social market economy, and promote the establishment on the world financial markets of a system of market supervision similar to that which prevails in our countries. in dealing with the financial and economic crisis too, europe must be united and determined. we are counting on you, mr topolánek, and on your presidency, to show your willingness and to guide us through this difficult period. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, on behalf of the independence and democracy group, i would like to respectfully greet the czech presidency, to express our appreciation to it, because the czech people have gone through great trials and are better able than many of us to understand the value and meaning of the word freedom. we also greet her with our hopes. you represent, mr topolánek, mr vaclav klaus, two hopes for us: to listen to the voice of the people, that is to say, to ensure that the referendum on the lisbon treaty is respected throughout europe and to give the people their freedom to free the people from the brussels bureaucracy that overwhelms us. we are now more and more of the people of europe who are the brussels dissidents.
madam president, mr president, i have found out from your czech historians why you have not ratified the treaty of lisbon: they speak of the magic of the number 8, like 2008. that number punctuates your story, they say: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. so 2008, i understand, you left it out, since you thought that ratifying it that year was suspicious, especially since we heard from some mouths the comparison between the limited sovereignty of brezhnev and the treaty. comrade barroso, who is here, despite all his faults and despite his past, is not brezhnev! (laughter) we're in a shared sovereign and freely consensual construction. the lisbon treaty is only a moment in this story, it is only a stage in this story. please, 2008 is over, ratify in 2009! (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i wish the czech government well, as it is holding the presidency of the union in difficult circumstances, given the complexity of its national political situation and a particularly worrying international context. the czech presidency must be determined and dynamic, like that of nicolas sarkozy last semester, to work actively for an immediate ceasefire in gaza and to maintain a strong political momentum, on the basis of the preparatory work programme drawn up jointly with france and sweden, which will succeed him as head of the council. in the face of the economic crisis, the coordinated recovery plan adopted by the twenty-seven must be implemented without delay to protect european industry, competitiveness and jobs. europe has a vital part to play in solving the crisis, and the czech presidency must help to prove this. i welcome the commitment of the czech prime minister to have his country ratify the treaty of lisbon by the end of this presidency. of the economic, diplomatic and institutional crises which are weakening europe, the last is the only one whose outcome depends solely on europeans. the czech presidency must ensure that the union is successful, so that our citizens have a future.
in writing. the pretext for this directive on the opening up of public procurement to competition in the arms industry was the strengthening of the competitiveness of the european arms industry, which was supposed to be hampered by european markets that were too narrow and too closed in on themselves. it is true that the text proposed today has taken account of a number of problems raised by the commission's original text, such as its scope, the non-application of the wto agreement on public procurement, financial thresholds and confidentiality. but it is in line with the logic of brussels, which believes that no sector, even if it is strategic and vital, should escape its supervision, liberalization and privatization. it does not guarantee respect for the sovereignty of the member states, which are legally solely responsible for their national security. it does not promote the existence of large-scale markets in europe, where national defence budgets are being drastically reduced. it does not establish any community preference which alone would allow the natural emergence of a genuine european market. it reinforces the civil/military dichotomy, so specific to europe, and which has already cost us so much. and above all, it puts economic and market considerations above all else. these serious flaws in essential points have motivated our opposition.
in writing. mr catania's report is simply appalling. it is a catalogue of all the rights, pass-rights, and exorbitant rights of the common law which, in his opinion, should be granted compulsorily to minorities, especially if they are extra-european. it is a method of destroying national and regional identities, of destroying the values, traditions and cultures of our countries, of systematically and institutionally discriminating against europeans in their own countries. it is a challenge to our inalienable right, recognized by all peoples except ours, to self-determination. it is also a monument to hypocrisy for an institution which practices discrimination on the basis of political views on a daily basis, and the indiscriminate and thoughtless application of the 'presumption of guilt' to some of its members, such as mr vanhecke and myself, who are victims of witchcraft trials in our respective countries. we are not here to defend mainly those visible and vocal minorities who are demanding ever more privileges and stigmatizing the countries and peoples who have the kindness or the stupidity to welcome them. we are here to defend our own people, the citizens of our nations, the vast majority of europeans who are invisible, inaudible and contemptible to you.
in writing. to entrust such a report to a communist mp is a provocation to the hundreds of millions of victims of communism. in this report mr catania is inspired, it is true, by an ideology less brutal than communism, but just as totalitarian: euro-globalism. the text denies the most fundamental human rights: the right to life with the promotion of abortion and euthanasia; the right of every child to have a father and a mother by asking states to apply 'the principle of mutual recognition for homosexual couples, whether married or in a civil partnership'. - the right of the peoples of europe to dispose of themselves and to remain themselves, which is being flouted by proposals to open europe even more to a global immigration to which the citizens of our nations should adapt. - democracy, since the report calls for the treaty of lisbon, which was rejected by the irish vote; more than ever, the safeguarding of our freedoms and the identity of our peoples requires the building of a new europe, the europe of free and sovereign nations.
in writing. there can be no european area of freedom, security and justice without the protection of fundamental rights. europe must be exemplary and irreproachable in this respect. violations have been identified, revealed, for example in closed institutions for minors, for pensioners, or the perennial problem posed by the disastrous situation in some prisons, as the report we voted on today underlines. we must also combat the denial of social rights. poverty and precariousness are violations of human rights. how can we accept the situation of all those who work and cannot afford to live in europe in the 21st century? we must proclaim the basic rights of everyone. the european union has a charter of fundamental rights. let us stick to it !
in writing. it is clear to anyone familiar with the arcana of the european commission, parliament or council that access to information on the institutions of the european union remains a thorny issue for the ordinary citizen. there are many reasons for this. this is because of the sheer number of documents issued and the multiplicity of their forms of publication (reports, opinions, resolutions, directives, regulations, etc.), the lack of simplification and legibility of institutional registers and internet pages, and the lack of transparency and communication. this report proposes to solve precisely these problems by ensuring greater transparency in the european institutions. this contributes more broadly to a better participation of the citizens of the union in its functioning and in its understanding. the people of europe do not want to be systematically excluded from decisions which directly affect them in their daily lives and in which they have no right to participate or to oppose. the few times they have made their voices heard in referendums, they have disowned their leaders and the brussels bureaucracy, blind, deaf and autistic to their demands and needs. greater transparency of the european institutions is a first step towards a new europe, a europe of the peoples and a europe of sovereign nations.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is certainly deplorable. the hope of peace and security, for one and for the other, evaporates in the smoke of gaza and under the bodies of the dead, and children, and women, and men, and wounded. we are further from any hope of security than we have ever been. all those who think that this war is, in the logic of the israeli argument, a war justified by the fact that there was a rocket attack on israel, that it is a matter of teaching the palestinians a lesson, have understood nothing. they didn't get it, because teaching a lesson is black pedagogy that never worked. since clausewitz we know that whoever starts a war, must know how to end it, must know what the goal is. the purpose of this war is to make israel safer. and we can say, as of today, that the purpose of this war will never be achieved by this war and the way it is conducted. the more civilians we kill, the more palestinians we kill, the less security there will be in the region! that's the drama, that's the tragedy that's happening right now in this region. and that's why we need to be clear here. martin schulz is right: we must protect israel from israel! we must protect israel from the temptation to seek a solution through war and military force. we must protect the palestinians from hamas. we must protect the palestinian civilians from hamas. that's our job! it's not easy, but we have to be clear. i ask the council to stop thinking in terms of upgrading, increasing, improving relations with israel as long as the situation is as it is. this is the wrong solution, this is not the right solution! (applause) i would like to thank i ask all those who, with reason, advocate dialogue, discussion with hamas, not to be naive, to bear in mind that we must talk with hamas to improve the situation in gaza, since they have the power, but at the same time to know that hamas, in its strategy, needs deaths. israel has fallen into hamas's trap: the more people die in gaza, the better it is for hamas. that is one of the truths that must also be told to hamas. we reject this suicidal strategy of hamas which wants to make victims, martyrs to launch aggression against israel. this too must be said to hamas. in conclusion, i will tell you one thing: the only people who can solve the hamas problem are the palestinians. as long as israel does not give up the occupation of the west bank, as long as israel does not give a positive solution to the palestinians in the west bank, more and more palestinians will turn to hamas. if we give the palestinians a hope of life in the west bank, they will revolt against hamas and they will liberate us from hamas. let's liberate the palestinians from the israeli occupation in the west bank and the palestinians will liberate themselves from hamas. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we all share responsibility for what is happening in the middle east today. we, europe, and we, the international community, have allowed the situation to deteriorate, we have allowed it to deteriorate when israel's security was threatened, and we have allowed it to deteriorate when the blockade made life in gaza absolutely impossible. today marks the 19th day of the war, 995 dead, including 292 children, thousands of wounded, some of whom are still waiting to be evacuated. tens of thousands of refugees who have no home and nowhere to go. a humanitarian situation that is getting worse: 700,000 gazans are without electricity, a third of the population is without water or gas, and it will be almost three weeks that this is going on, three weeks that they are living or rather trying to survive. there's too much suffering, too much misery, it has to stop, it has to stop now! it is our responsibility as europeans not to be complacent about anyone. it is our responsibility as europeans to put pressure on both sides so that they finally agree to negotiate. it is a matter of days, perhaps even hours, before the irreparable ground offensive is carried out, particularly in gaza city. we must guarantee israel's security, we must guarantee the people of gaza that they can live in peace tomorrow. we need border controls, we need the blockade lifted. we all know that to get this agreement, perhaps all that is needed is for europe, the united states and the arab countries, which are meeting the day after tomorrow, to speak with one voice. i want to tell you my innermost conviction before i conclude. it is not war that we want to win today, but peace. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, in gaza we have seen war, we have seen death, but we have seen people, living people, people who have the right to live and whom we have a duty to protect. the protection of the civilian population is the absolute emergency. and there is no excuse for not doing everything possible to protect this population, and i ask you, mr president-in-office of the council, do you feel that you have done everything possible today to get the israeli authorities to put an immediate end to this indiscriminate and disproportionate military operation? i certainly don't. when the rumours of the operation were circulating in the embassies, the council, against parliament, reaffirmed its determination to raise the level of its relations. what a tragic mistake! when ngos ask the security council to refer the matter to the international criminal court for investigation into alleged war crimes, the council is unable to invoke the human rights clause of its agreement with israel. i'm tired of hearing that we can't do better, that we're doing the best we can. it is the deadlock in your essentially humanitarian policy to repair the damage of military occupation and war, which is the ultimate failure. how far will we have to go in violation of international law to enforce the human rights clause? if we are not able today to ask ourselves what the scope of effective pressure and implementation mechanisms is, i do not really know what situation will justify action. and i say to you quite clearly: if business as usual continues and persists in our relations with israel, with the thousand dead in gaza, you will bury article 11 of the treaty, you will bury the union's 'human rights' policy and you will bury the european project! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, thousands of years ago, david faced goliath to find out whether the land was promised to the moabites, the philistines or the hebrews. today, the same tragedy continues on this earth, the source of one of the three pillars of our civilization. today, it is urgent, just, legitimate and necessary to ensure the security and recognition of the state of israel. there is only one solution. the aim is to ensure the birth of a truly sovereign palestinian state. here, as elsewhere, multiculturalism has its limits. where there are two peoples, there must be two states. if there is to be any effectiveness in the european union's aid, then it must be focused on an objective. the aim is to grow this palestinian state of law where the rule protects the weak and obliges the powerful. there is such urgency that it is true that on this earth the extremists of all stripes are strong and in error, while the little ones are moderate and victims. the solution to transcend the law of retaliation is neither moral nor military, it is political. so let's get to work.
mr president, once again, the weapons are speaking in the middle east. again, the main victims are women and children, injured by the thousands and killed by the hundreds. once again, history is repeating itself, in its horror, at the gates of europe. but we see that despite its initiatives, europe is not effective in this major conflict, which is within its immediate sphere of influence. this is becoming incomprehensible to a very large majority of our public opinion, which is increasingly rejecting this impotence. we must, madam commissioner, take the lead for peace with strength and authority. the union for the mediterranean must play a major role, as must the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. as such, the european parliament must support the franco-egyptian peace plan calling for an immediate ceasefire, the securing of the borders between israel and the gaza strip, the reopening of the crossing points and, above all, the lifting of the blockade of gaza. we must also call for the immediate implementation of the un resolution. after this first step, we must go further and propose the establishment of a military force, not multinational but euro-mediterranean. this would be the founding act of a political will affirmed in favour of a pax europa so long awaited by all the peoples of the mediterranean. i would also like to draw your attention to a new situation. with the conflict in the middle east, we are gradually entering a high-risk zone, that of the confrontation between civilizations. indeed, since the beginning of the israeli-palestinian conflict, there has always been a mobilization of arab public opinion. today, it's a muslim public opinion, which extends far beyond the geography of arab countries. this indicates a radical change in the nature of the conflict. europe has a historic responsibility to urgently strengthen the dialogue of civilizations.
mr president, lasting peace in gaza can only be achieved by the deployment of a multinational intervention force under un mandate. for the first time, israel seems resigned to this solution, which has been repeatedly demanded by the palestinians. i do not know when this force will be able to intervene, but it cannot be until an agreement has been reached between the parties to the conflict and we all hope that it will be as soon as possible. but i know that this mission will require the utmost impartiality on the part of those who carry it out. i believe that the european union will then be in the best position to act and - why not, mr president pöttering - in the context of the union for the mediterranean? it will be the best placed to act, since the americans are rightly or wrongly considered to have taken the side of israel and the arabs that of the palestinians. do you not think, mr president-in-office of the council, that we should prepare for this?
thank you so much for that final clarification.
mr president, to overcome the tensions of the past and to make every effort to stabilise the western balkans, this can only be based on overcoming its own history. by proposing this european day of remembrance on 11 july, this symbolic act par excellence is part of this approach and pursues several objectives. firstly, to pay tribute to all the victims of the atrocities committed in srebrenica and their families, and secondly, to remind all citizens and peoples of the need to be vigilant and of the fact that the inability of states to act inevitably leads to such atrocities. it is also important to remember that the european union must have a genuine common defence and security policy in order to be able to act in the name of the principles and values that unite us and guide us. finally, we should remind the countries of the western balkans that they are naturally called upon to join us quickly, but that this requires full and unreserved cooperation with the international criminal court in bringing war criminals to justice. this is our message, the message of parliament to present and future generations, that time should not rust and erode memory, but rather revive it.
mr president, although the regulation on the transport of animals has been in force since january 2007, it seems that the member states have not systematically complied with the requirements by submitting annual reports as requested. an overall analysis is therefore still uncertain, since many elements are missing as regards the means of carrying out inspections. as a member of animal welfare associations and the intergroup for the protection of animals, i am particularly concerned about this subject. the associations have been fighting desperately for decades, and it is only in 2007 that directives in this area were finally introduced, where we can see that the member states are showing a certain laxity. i would even say a certain ill will, because, as we all know, the implementation of controls and inspections is by no means insurmountable. we know the slaughterhouses, we know the cattle-raising areas, we know the cattle-transit routes, so what is the problem? i believe that it is important, in our time, when public opinion is rightly becoming more and more aware of the animal condition, whether in terms of farming and slaughter or transport conditions, that the states respect these sentiments. i would like to add, since i have the floor, that it would be essential to take account of local climatic conditions, regardless of the transport times. a transport operation of several hours in the netherlands in spring is nothing compared to the same transport operation in the middle of summer in a country like greece. shouldn't night transport be imposed in the latter case? i thank you for considering this proposal in the future.
mr president, i am glad that it was a briton, our colleague mr parish, who tabled this text, saying that the roman soldiers, two thousand years ago, did well to go to britain and bring amphorae of olive oil and wine. but then, there are two consequences to be drawn. it is not very sensible, symbolically, to put the food agency in helsinki and it is not reasonable that the european commission does not back down on the following points: first, to restore aid for almond trees, and secondly to stop the attacks on olive trees, particularly in andalusia and throughout europe; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. i suggest to our commissioner and president, mr barroso, that we organise a big banquet in portugal with sheep cheese and wine from samos. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i regret to inform you that we have just learned that the headquarters of the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in gaza has just been bombed by israeli tank shells. three people were injured and the un decided to suspend all activities. i think that, in view of the vote that will take place later, it was important that each and every one of you be informed. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the report on budgetary control of eu funds in afghanistan, by the findings made there, demonstrates once again that western interventionism in these regions has not changed anything. our presence only prolongs the war and the resulting suffering rather than remedying it. the debate on democracy and gender equality in a country where customs sometimes amount to barbarism sums up the happy illusion of the europeanists who always prefer to deal with the international rather than to solve europe's problems. the ethnic groups that make up afghanistan, a land of warfare for centuries, will never accept any foreign occupation, even "humanitarian". it only strengthens the positions of the taliban or other extremist factions rather than allowing the emergence of a strong legitimate authority capable of stabilising the country. the europeans must withdraw from the afghan war zone as soon as possible.
in writing. the text tabled by all the groups in this assembly, which is supposed to represent the interests of the peoples of europe, makes certainly excellent recommendations, such as the call for a cessation of hostilities, but makes no mention of the importation of this conflict into europe. yet in the protests against israeli intervention, in addition to the violence that accompanies them, two images are particularly shocking. on one side, the protesters, mostly of immigrant origin, waving palestinian, algerian, hamas, hezbollah flags... and banners with arabic inscriptions. on the other hand, the leaders of the far left, in france besancenot for the lcr and buffet for the communist party, marching with the imams. these images illustrate two worrying developments: the gradual takeover of the immigrant masses from the muslim world by islamist associations; the collusion between islamist movements and the communist far left, two revolutionary movements that want to destroy our civilization. more than ever, safeguarding the identity and freedom of the peoples of europe requires the banning of such demonstrations and the implementation of a policy of reversing migration flows.
in writing. faced with the gravity of the situation in gaza, the european parliament could not remain silent. i therefore supported this resolution calling for an immediate and permanent ceasefire, including an end to israel's military action in the gaza strip and an end to hamas rocket fire on the jewish state. i regret, however, that there is no firm and unreserved condemnation of the israeli army's attacks, which have already killed more than a thousand people, mostly civilians. and if i agree with the remarks made before the vote by martin schulz, president of the socialist group, who said that these attacks were unacceptable, i would have preferred that this indignation be expressed on paper. similarly, while the resolution calls on the israeli authorities to guarantee the continuous flow of humanitarian aid and free access to gaza for the international press, it does not go so far as to make the strengthening of israel-eu relations conditional on the jewish state's respect for humanitarian law, as i would have wished. europe has a major role to play in resolving this conflict, but a lasting peace agreement between israelis and palestinians, in my view, can only be achieved through the creation of a viable palestinian state, which is grateful and recognized by israel.
in writing. the conflict between israel and gaza has gone on for too long. at a time when the death toll is now in the thousands, it is our urgent duty to put an end to the fighting without delay. the policy of isolation in gaza has failed, radicalizing the population, which is its first victim. there is no military solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. the only possible settlement is a lasting and comprehensive peace agreement between the parties. we therefore call for an international conference, promoted by the quartet and involving all the regional actors, to be organized as soon as possible on the basis of the previous agreement between israelis and palestinians and on the initiative of the arab league. in the meantime, we believe that any strengthening of political relations between the eu and israel must be strictly conditional on respect for international humanitarian law. we therefore maintain our negative position on the vote in favour of increased israeli participation in community programmes.
in writing. the horn of africa is today a place of all evils: :- war, whether civil or regional,- absence of democracy and freedom,- famine and food crisis. the acts of piracy, worthy of another age, are only the latest avatar of this chaos. in the face of these tragedies that are tearing and bleeding the region, we are not condemned to silence or to helplessness. at a time when the international community is showing signs of weariness over an unending crisis, the eu must, more than ever, play a leading role. by launching operation atalante to protect vulnerable vessels and deliver food aid to somali refugees, the union has shown that it can find concrete and effective solutions to the emergency. but it also has to find answers to the overall political crisis in the region. it must build on the 'eu regional political partnership for peace, security and development in the horn of africa' which the development committee launched with the adoption of its report in april 2007. we must not allow the horn of africa to become a zone of lawlessness and non-development.
the agenda calls for the debate on five motions for resolutions on iran. see minutes
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission is closely following the developments in the situation of mrs shirin ebadi and considers that the threats to which mrs ebadi and her colleagues are exposed following the search of their offices in tehran on 29 december are unacceptable. the office search is the latest in a series of intimidation acts directed against ms. ebadi, including the december shutdown of the human rights defenders association, which she led. the european commission therefore fully supported the french presidency of the council of the union in presenting two statements on the case of mrs ebadi, on 31 and 22 december last year. the commission stresses in particular that the iranian authorities must respect their international human rights obligations, and in particular the right to peaceful assembly as set out in the international covenant on civil and political rights, which iran has signed and ratified, and must therefore allow the reopening of the premises of the human rights defenders association and grant it the legal status it has requested for many years. as in the past, and as in 2009, the commission will not pass up any opportunity to urge the iranian authorities to provide protection to ms ebadi and other human rights defenders (individuals or organisations) and to allow them to continue to operate in the country and not to interfere with their legitimate activities. as you all know, nuclear energy and human rights issues severely limit the scope of our activities in iran. the commission will nevertheless continue to cooperate in 2009 in areas of common interest, in particular the fight against drug trafficking. we also managed to maintain some programmes to promote human rights and good governance, such as the project to promote children's rights carried out in cooperation with unicef and projects to promote judicial reform. we are also implementing initiatives to strengthen cooperation and exchanges in the fields of education and culture, such as the erasmus mundus exchanges, the recent visit of several iranian journalists to brussels, and the persian television programmes that the commission hopes to launch before the end of this year. however, it is clear that unless there is a significant improvement in human rights in iran, our relations will not be able to develop normally.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in guinea. see minutes
author. - mr president, commissioner, and mr špidla, colleagues. on 22 december 2008, the president of the republic of guinea, lanzana conté, died at the age of 74. on the night of 22-23 december, his relatives were busy organizing the interim government, surrounded by rumors of a coup d'état. at this very moment, are these men sincere who are running a country that transparency international considers to be one of the most corrupt in the world and who are relying on a rule of law and a democracy that never really existed? at this precise moment, do they remember how, 24 years ago, general lanzana conté seized power when the father of independence in 1958, the marxist president sékou touré, died in 1984? at this very moment, do they think that a mere officer in charge of the army's fuel supply can seize power? at this very moment, do they not regret that they did not work sufficiently to establish a genuine rule of law and a genuine democracy that would have allowed these precious elections to be held within the 60-day deadline set by the constitution? if they had that regret, captain moussa dadis camara and his friends will turn it into remorse in a few hours. on wednesday, december 24, the unknown captain proclaimed himself president of the republic, he was cheered by thousands of guineans, he staged, on december 25, the allegiance of the civilian government, which submitted to his ultimatum. he has promised to fight corruption and to organise elections by 2010. he appoints a serious man as prime minister, an international official based in egypt. he noted with satisfaction that no one in guinea condemned him; the opposition political parties, civil society, are taking note of this situation. in these circumstances, should the coup be condemned? yes, my dear colleagues, we must condemn him! the european people's party, on whose behalf i have the honour of speaking, condemns this coup d'état, even though we are not naive, because we know that the political solutions to overcoming a dictatorship are never simple. we call for a vote in favour of the joint resolution of the six political groups.
member of the commission. - mr president, madam deputy, ladies and gentlemen, the news of the death of the guinean president, mr lassan conté, which arrived on the morning of 23 november 2008, was followed a few hours later by a military coup led by a junta which created the national council for democracy and development and declared the suspension of the constitution and the dissolution of state institutions. the european commission strongly supports the statement made by the presidency of the european union condemning this violent seizure of power and urging the guinean authorities to return to a civil, constitutional and democratic government as soon as possible. the positive reception of the military regime by the guinean public, especially by political parties and trade unions, clearly indicates that the living conditions of the guinean population have deteriorated to the point that the military coup is also perceived as a positive change and a matter of optimism about the future. it also shows that the regime that has been in power in this country has lost the confidence of the guinean people to the extent that it prefers the military to take over the government rather than constitutional successors. in this uncertain situation, it is important to welcome the swift and effective initiatives taken by the economic community of west african states (ecowas) and its president, mr chambas, as well as the determination and resolve of the community and the african union, which suspended guinea's membership of their organisations and condemned the violent seizure of power. the commission intends to join and support the efforts of the ecowas community and the african union to expedite as far as possible the return to civil, constitutional and democratic governance through free and transparent elections. the challenge facing the international community in the coming months is to support guinea's transition to democracy and to hold free and democratic elections for the legislature and the president. madam member, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in march 2004, after elections which did not respect the principles of democracy and which violated the essential elements of the cotonou agreement, we decided to open consultations between guinea and the european union under article 96 of the cotonou agreement. progress was made in the following areas: the 2006 general elections, media liberalisation, the revision of the electoral framework carried out jointly with the government and the opposition, and the improvement of the macroeconomic framework. we're not losing hope. we are confident that the electoral process, which was launched last october, will be able to be successfully renewed. in this situation, a joint mission of the presidency and the commission will leave for guinea this wednesday. this mission, involving ecowas and african union services, will aim to assess the situation in the country and propose appropriate measures to support guinea's transition to democracy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on freedom of the press in kenya. see minutes
mr matsakis, thank you for that statement, but i should not have accepted it in principle, because the rules say that when you ask to speak in the catch the eye, it must be on the subject of, let me remind you, press freedom in kenya, even though the events you have referred to are absolutely dramatic, everyone agrees.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by emphasising that freedom of expression, including television and radio, is one of the pillars on which the eu is based. this freedom is a core european value and cannot be called into question. the communications act of 2008, which became law in kenya on 2 january 2009, contains provisions that in our view may violate media freedom. we therefore welcome president kibaki's recent decision on 7 january to revise some of the controversial parts of the act. we are pleased that mr. kibaki has instructed the minister of information and communications and the attorney general to meet with media representatives and to present amendments to this law that would address the concerns raised. freedom of expression and freedom of the press are part of a public administration in the broadest sense, which is itself at the heart of the european union's development strategy. i sincerely believe that a free and accountable press is a necessary precondition for democracy and the rule of law, which are integral to sustainable development. only through dialogue will the media and the kenyan government be able to deepen mutual understanding and build mutual respect. the european commission therefore looks forward to the outcome of the various stakeholder meetings to be held in kenya and hopes that the parties concerned will reach consensus on appropriate recommendations regarding the proposed amendments to the media act. as regards the post-election violence, the commission welcomes the report of the commission of inquiry into this violence (waki report). welcomes the commitment of the government of kenya to implement the recommendations of this report, including the establishment of a special tribunal to ensure that those responsible for the violence are held accountable for their actions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.10 p.m.)
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to the deterioration - if it were still possible - of the human rights situation in tunisia. since 11 december, the well-known human rights defender sihem bensedrine, editor of kalima, has been the subject of harassment in the press and slander that is absolutely unbearable and incompatible with the rule of law. on 23 january, mr amin, who is the coordinator of the maghreb coordination of human rights organisations, was refused entry into tunisian territory. on 28 january, kalima radio, which has been broadcasting since then via satellite, was completely surrounded. its journalists have been jailed and its supporters have been beaten in the streets. this radio station is still surrounded by the tunisian police, with violations, therefore, of freedom of information and expression. finally, tomorrow we will have the appeal trial of the gafsa workers who are fighting against corruption and against their exploitation in this mining basin of tunisia, with a denial of justice that we saw in the first trial. the heads of mission in tunis are concerned about the situation, have discussed it, perhaps are discussing it at this very moment. they were meeting today. i ask you, mr president, to take a major political initiative to bring an end to these systematic violations of human rights in tunisia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic partnership agreement between cariforum and the european union is the beginning of something bad for the outermost regions of the west indies and french guiana. worse still, the agreement on which i will be voting does not respect the mandate set by the european council, the european union's caribbean strategy or the european union's strategy for the outermost regions, all of which explicitly mention the need for regional integration of the outermost regions within cariforum and the creation of an interregional market between these two parties, aimed at the overall development of the region. i'm worried about you. for the last ten days, guadeloupe has been experiencing a terrible strike that blocks everything, even gasoline. the strike is ongoing because the west indies-guyanese population is suffering from the cost of living, which is one and a half times more expensive than in metropolitan europe. if this has been a franco-french problem, it has now become a european one, and the commission's refusal to negotiate a specific urp-cariforum agreement for us is a disgrace in my view.
madam president, the regions of aquitaine, midi-pyrénées and languedoc-roussillon were hit hard by the storm klaus nine days ago. the damage is considerable and i ask that these regions receive urgent help at european level. i am thinking in particular of the european union solidarity fund, but also of the structural funds, the rural development fund and the authorization of state aid. i would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that in may 2005 the european parliament adopted mr berend's report on the reform of the solidarity fund, in order to extend its scope. the matter is currently blocked in the council of ministers. it is imperative that he has a positive outcome quickly. european citizens expect the european union to protect and help them in practical ways. allowing these french regions to benefit from urgent aid, but also completing the reform of the solidarity fund, would be a sure guarantee to european citizens that the european union is called upon to be present at their side in difficult situations.
madam president, allow me to express my full solidarity with the citizens and families who were victims of the storm klaus, which struck southern europe, and particularly south-west france, more than a week ago. the consequences are tragic. eleven people died, more than 1.5 million homes were without electricity and 300,000 hectares of forest were affected, or 40% of the forest in the netherlands. about 30 to 40 million m3 of timber were cut down. since 2002, the european union has had a solidarity fund to provide emergency financial assistance to european regions affected by these natural disasters. it is still necessary - and i will repeat the conclusions of my colleague mr laperrouze - for the council of ministers to release this solidarity fund and i hope that parliament will ensure that this happens very quickly.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, during the negotiations in july, needless to say, the bush administration and the european union were caught in their own trap by india and china. and contrary to the hypocritical claims of liberal economists, who say that the failure of doha would be a disaster for the poor countries, it is not. on the contrary, it is a historic opportunity for these countries in difficulty, in a context marked by significant fluctuations in commodity prices. even experts admit that the gains that the poorest countries could expect were far less than the tax losses caused by the elimination of customs duties in these same countries, which would have amounted to 60 billion dollars. during these negotiations, the commission, locked into its liberal dogmas, showed a total lack of responsibility towards the peoples of europe, going so far as to propose to put an end to, or even to sacrifice, car production in the territory of the union in order to conclude an agreement. for the wto and the commission, there are only consumers and never producers of wealth. it is this conception of things which is at the origin of the present crisis, because, by making competition the alpha and omega of everything, it leads to ever greater wage deflation, and thus to the absolute impoverishment of the wage-earning population and the methodical destruction of all social protection. if the doha round were to be concluded, it would be a disaster for all peoples. and the sad thing about the present situation is that, despite the enormous damage that has been done, people want to continue in the wrong direction at all costs. there is an urgent need to revolutionize the wto so that democracy can take root.
madam president, the european textile and clothing sector is one which has suffered the full brunt of globalisation in recent years. today, despite the lingering wounds in some european regions, the sector has been able to initiate a new turnaround through, in particular, the development of technical and innovative textiles. but let us not undermine the industry's ability to bounce back by our laxity and neglect. the european union must maintain the political will to create a coherent competitive environment for its businesses, by remaining vigilant and taking concrete and effective action when necessary. to that end, commissioner, you must continue to monitor customs statistics on imports from china and keep the sector informed of the latest developments. let's keep an eye open and be reactive. the european union has the means. trade defence instruments are a perfect example of this. i will therefore continue to insist that a europe which protects is not a protectionist europe. but my concern today, madam commissioner, is based on the unprecedented increase in the seizures of counterfeit textiles and leather goods, articles impregnated with azo dyes or nickel, which are increasingly endangering the safety and health of european consumers. it is a phenomenon which, as you might expect, is not likely to abate with the economic crisis we are experiencing. that is why i ask you to implement as soon as possible, together with the member states, the four-year action plan to combat counterfeiting and piracy, with the creation of a european counterfeiting observatory and the strengthening of the european customs system. making it compulsory to mark the origin of products from third countries, harmonizing customs control procedures, imposing criminal sanctions for infringements of intellectual property rights: this is the fight we must wage for our companies, our jobs and for the citizens of europe.
commissioner, let me first say that i am delighted to see you back in this chamber.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on: the commission statement on the consequences of the recent gas crisis, the report by anne laperrouze, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the second strategic analysis of energy policy (2008/2239 (ini)) (a6-0013/2009), and the oral question to the commission on the challenge of energy efficiency and information and communication technologies, by vladimir remek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0115/2008 b6-0003/2009).
i'm the reporter. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our discussions on this second strategic energy analysis were of course marked by the new gas supply crisis between russia and ukraine. this crisis has exposed the weaknesses, the fragility of interconnections and the difficulty of the european union to react and speak with one voice. the crisis has revealed for the third time the need for a common energy policy. however, i must say - and our commissioner has just said this - that we are seeing progress and more cooperation and solidarity between member states, and therefore hope for a solution to manage these crises. i would like to thank the members who have contributed greatly to enriching this report, which we have been conducting with a bang, since we were informed of the communication in november. i shall not go into detail about everything we have said in this resolution, but perhaps i should like to give you an idea of the message that the committee on industry wanted to convey with this resolution. the context is as follows. the climate constraint will become more severe, the security of supply of the european union is threatened by increasingly serious and frequent crises and the competitiveness of the european union may be undermined. this implies the need to think differently about energy consumption and use in the european union, to think differently about our energy resources and to enable us to exploit the huge pool of jobs in the energy sector, jobs which are so crucial in the context of the economic crisis we are going through. what do we propose? the short term is to affirm the vision of three times 20 by 2020 of the energy-climate package and to transform it into a european energy policy. it is a combined action at several levels: global, european, national and local, which means that the first priority we have indicated is of course energy saving, energy efficiency and the development of renewable energies, because in this area the potential of the european union is considerable. in particular, the 20% energy efficiency target should be made binding. secondly, the security of supply of the european union should be improved through investment in networks and, in particular, interconnections. solidarity between states means that the networks must supply isolated regions which are heavily dependent on a single supplier. this also means that the gas security directive needs to be revised to become a european crisis management tool. improving security of supply also means strengthening and structuring the dialogue with transit and producer countries. we must develop these energy interdependence relations, particularly with russia and the mediterranean area. thirdly, having an internal market is a crucial element for security of supply. but how can one member state be supplied via another if interconnections are weak or non-existent? four of them are to identify best practice at international level. in this respect, let us increase trade with japan and the united states - particularly california - but let us not be fooled, our relations with these energy-consuming countries are based both on cooperation and also on competition, particularly in energy technologies. and then there's the long-term, which is very important. the aim is to plan the future of energy in the european union. we should be able to write the roadmaps for the supply of the european union in 2050 on the basis of scenarios for the period from, say, 2010 to 2020. this requires setting ambitious targets for the fight against climate change. our committee proposes to reduce co2 emissions by 60 to 80%, but perhaps by at least 80% tomorrow, to improve energy efficiency by 35% and to achieve a 60% share of renewable energy by 2050. our parliament is asking that this road map should include the evolution of the various sources of energy in order to plan investments in means of production, interconnections and research and development. in the energy mix for 2050, the industry committee confirmed the role of nuclear power alongside other energy sources, such as renewable energies, and the desire to develop energy storage facilities and to use the potential of the sun, whose resource is infinite.
member of the commission. − madam president, this has been a really fascinating debate and has reflected all the diversity of views on energy and the importance that this issue deserves. but i believe that the debate definitely shows that the rapporteur has struck the right balance. it is true that each of us sees the detail differently. there are no simple solutions, no silver bullets to solve this. again i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for really going through the process of ensuring that all opinions are reflected in the report, while at the same time clearly supporting the commission’s second strategic energy review. a lot of you spoke about the supergrid. supergrid is the tool that was seen as a magical solution. well, it is true that it has a lot of potential, but with a grid we have a challenge. somebody needs to pay for the grid, and, as you know, we are looking for a balance between affordability, security of supply and sustainability. so, if we really want to move towards this supergrid, the recovery plan is the first small step in the right direction. the recovery plan can lead to a vicious circle where we say: ‘well, we need this, we need that, but it should be done by industry’. yes, we do also encourage industry with different types of incentives, but if the public funds and european funds will not follow in accordance with our political priorities, then the plan will not be successful. then there are other issues that i would also emphasise, echoing what mr paparizov said. on the third internal market package, i would just say what it does for europe. first of all there is the agency for cooperation of european regulators. that will solve a lot of issues. second, a european body for transmission system operators. these two issues are crucially related to security of supply, while at the same time not taking away national sovereignty over energy. so if this package is adopted now, we will achieve a lot of momentum. if it is postponed, we will lose a lot of momentum for security of supply. so, in my opinion, the recovery plan and the third energy package is something that needs to be done. the last questions are usually the ones i remember the best, so i will briefly respond to them, because they relate very clearly to the issues that we discussed. what is the council discussing? i think there are basically two issues. one is whether we should give public funds to energy at all. well, a minority of countries still believes that it is good that the funding should come from industry, but this brings the problem that it is hard for industry to move on very costly projects where returns are uncertain. the second issue is ‘a fair return for my country’. well, i could point out that my country is not specifically covered by this recovery plan, so it is good that there were a lot of questions on this. i explained that any interconnection with the baltic as a whole helps my country as well. so this issue is still looked at very much from a national perspective: ‘my fair return’. i believe we are here taking the first step towards european public funds supporting this type of development. this could be the biggest difficulty, but i believe the council will work hard really to approve of our proposal because i believe it is balanced, if not ideal for every member state. on nabucco, our preferred option is definitely transit via turkey. we are working now, we have started the intergovernmental conference with a view to concluding it in march with an intergovernmental agreement and a project support agreement. that should give enough legal and regulatory clarity for investing in the nabucco pipeline. if it fails, we will look for alternatives. so there are alternatives, but turkey is our priority route and i think it is beneficial for turkey as well. as for gas storage, we are considering this, but 90 days should not be necessary for everyone, because it very much depends on imports. if a country produces gas it does not need the same level of storage, so there should be a more fine-tuned proportion that gives enough security of supply and is realistic enough in case of crisis. so we are still looking at what the fine-tuning of the gas storage proposal could look like. again i would like to thank you for this debate. it was a very tough debate, but i believe that all elements are there and we just need to continue to work very vigorously to implement the ones that we have agreed on and the proposals that have been agreed in this house. again i would like to thank parliament for its strong support for developing a european energy policy.
member of the commission. − mr president, we have had a very fascinating debate. i agree that much, if not the majority, of the responsibility falls to our colleague who is responsible for energy. however, everything that you have been calling for – energy security, more efficiency, intelligent networks, decentralised networks, the supergrid, the micro grid, the virtual power plants – needs ict to be run. so it is essential that we make every effort to get this intelligent means, in order to put into practice the policy proposed by the committee on energy efficiency. we are economically and technologically on the right path and it is also – and i must stress this – a unique business opportunity. if we get the ict to allow energy efficiency to go in the right direction, then we are creating many industries, a lot of growth and many jobs. that is also the reason why we have to go ahead with smart building, smart lighting and smart transport. only if we apply, in practical terms, the possibilities shown to us by research, will we not only be less dependent because we will be more efficient, but we will also build a new industrial capacity. i will just give you one example in order to show you how this could work. as you know, we will be adopting the high-efficiency light-emitting diodes – the famous leds – which, already today, will cut 30% of energy consumption in lighting and up to 50% by 2025. we have already, thanks to european research, gone one step forward. in 2007, due to our european framework programme on research, we delivered the oleds – the organic leds – with a supplementary efficiency of 50% on the leds. european research has brought about results and it is now both national and regional policy to put these results into practice. i have heard some criticism that the euro recovery plan is not about efficiency. well, if i am reading this plan correctly, i see that eur 1 billion is allocated to energy efficiency in buildings. you have all pledged in this house that this is the right way to proceed. eur 5 billion goes to clean cars, so that cars will no longer be dependent on petrol as they are today, and there is eur 1 billion for smart manufacturing in order to use less time and less energy in our industries. we are on the right path and i think that, with the help of parliament and with a lot of pushing in the national member states, we will manage not only to secure these means but also to apply them in practice. then energy efficiency will not only be about speeches but also about facts.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the extraordinary richness of your contributions, which show how immense this field of energy is and how vital this energy is. in our debates and in the report, which also reflects the discussions we had between colleagues from the various political groups, i noted a broad consensus on the need to strengthen networks, interconnections, the need to use information and communication technologies to make networks intelligent - as the commissioner has just explained - the need to strengthen relations with producer and transit countries - this was the subject of the committee on foreign affairs and security with our rapporteur, mr dimitri trakopoulos - and an agreement also on energy efficiency, energy savings, the development of renewable energies. in conclusion, improving energy efficiency, developing renewable energy, diversifying our sources and supply routes, deepening the dialogue with the producing countries, but also the fact that the 27 states speak with one voice and, above all, a change in our lives, this is the consensus we have reached. these are all necessary ways of ensuring the common energy security we all want. the differences, of course, concern the composition of the energy mix. what are the sources of energy? i would like to reply to our colleagues in the green group and then to other colleagues who have also protested against nuclear energy. i'd say we should still be careful. there's a lot of exaggeration in the words. i think we have set very ambitious targets for 2050. we're talking about 80 percent reduction in co2 emissions, we're talking about 60 percent renewable energy, and we're talking about a lot of energy. it has been noted that a large share was given to all renewable energy sources. as far as nuclear energy is concerned, it is recognised in this report as being part of the energy mix. i would simply like to remind you in conclusion of the objectives, the 450 ppm concentration, that is co2, which are intended to guarantee this limit of + 2 degrees. i would remind you that in these efforts that are being announced, we are talking about 9% nuclear, we are talking about 54% energy efficiency, 35% renewables and 14% geological carbon capture and storage. all of this is for 2030. so nuclear is part of it and so is coal. i'm not a fan of coal, i'm not a fan of nuclear, but we need to have the widest possible range of energy sources. i don't want to have to choose between coal and nuclear by 2050.
thank you, mrs laperrouze. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the joint discussion is closed. the vote on the report by mrs anne laperrouze will take place tomorrow, tuesday. i have received, in accordance with rule 108 (5), a motion for a resolution at the end of the debate on the oral question by mr remek. the vote will take place on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by jürgen schröder, on behalf of the committee on development, on the impact of economic partnership agreements (epas) on development (2008/2170 (ini)) (a6-0513/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the report by mr schroeder, which represents a balanced overview of the diversity of opinions surrounding the development impact of the economic partnership agreements (epas). the dossier continues to evolve. we have signed a full economic partnership agreement with the caribbean region, whilst we have negotiated interim agreements with countries and regions in africa and the pacific. these interim epas provide for a trade regime compatible with wto rules and preserve important trade preferences for these countries. the interim agreements are only transitory in nature, as they will be replaced by full regional epas. the pace of these negotiations will be set by the regions concerned to ensure those objectives and coverage match their own integration processes, capacity, needs and political priorities. in parallel, the programming of the 10th european development fund has moved on. most of the regional and national programmes are signed. in anticipation of the epas, these programmes include considerable support to help our african, caribbean and pacific (acp) partners make the most of the agreements: direct support for the implementation of the agreements and indirect support to build up infrastructure and productive capacity. the commission recognises the essential role of development finance. at the same time we welcome the fact that the report acknowledges that the development objectives and outcomes of the agreements are a much wider issue than just financial support. we also recognise the essential role of reform in the acp regions in reaching the development objectives, as set out in paragraph 14 of the report. this includes fiscal reform and changes to revenue systems. the reforms offset shifts in the tax base due to liberalisation and are in themselves valuable steps to ensuring sustainable public financing in the acp. another essential objective is to support regional economic integration in the acp. the interim agreements do not yet include all acp countries. this is exactly why these agreements are only temporary pending full agreement. the full agreements will be flexible and comprehensive. building up supply-side capacity to trade and engage in goods and service sectors underpins the economic value of a trade agreement. the commission’s view is that protectionism is never a valid policy option. however, we do acknowledge that protection – the legitimate use of measures to protect sensitive sectors and emerging industry – is a valid and essential policy tool. this is why the epas contain all sorts of flexibilities, and in particular exclusions and asymmetrical commitments for the acp side, as called for in the report. on the eu side, our markets are completely open for acp products, with increased cooperation to meet technical and health standards and facilitate trade. acp countries will only open their markets gradually, with the possibility to maintain exceptions. the commission does not see our commitment to the epa process ending on signature. this is the start of a process of enhanced dialogue, careful implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of the effect, especially as regards the development impact. all of this will use the institutions established to implement the agreement to ensure transparency and the participation of parliamentarians and civil society. the commission therefore welcomes the report by mr schröder and will provide a detailed reaction to the points raised in due course.
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. parliament will vote on thursday on mr schröder's report on the economic partnership agreements (epas). i would be extremely disappointed if the first expression of our institution on this subject, which is both very technical and highly political (since the whole future of our relations with the acp countries is at stake), were to end in the adoption of mr schröder's report. the pse will not vote on this text because it does not reflect the concerns of both europe and our acp partners about the epas and the way they are negotiated. the european parliament has tabled and will vote on a resolution which, contrary to the rapporteur's position, places development at the heart of the priorities of the epas, which rejects the liberalisation of public services and any negotiation on singapore issues or on services against the will of the acp countries, which promotes regional integration, which calls for massive financial support to upgrade the economies of the acp countries and which takes account of the specificities and fragility of these countries, whether ldcs or not. these are the conditions which would make epas acceptable. unfortunately, we are still a long way from that.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by mr gyula hegyi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the european nature reserves (2008/2210 (ini)) (a6-0478/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, halting the loss of biodiversity is a priority for the union and for the commission. it is quite literally a question about the future of life on earth. but, despite the fundamental importance of preserving biodiversity, progress to date has been limited. in december 2008, the commission adopted the first comprehensive assessment of progress made at both european community and member state levels. despite the positive developments that have been made in recent years – for instance the natura 2000 network – the eu’s biodiversity is still under continuous pressure due to habitat destruction, pollution, climate change and the impact of invasive species. the commission’s conclusion was that we are highly unlikely to meet our 2010 target of halting biodiversity decline – and that further intensive efforts will be required, both at member state and eu levels. against this background, the commission welcomes the consistent support that parliament has given to efforts to protect europe’s rich and varied natural heritage. we greatly welcome the initiative of mr hegyi for producing this important resolution on wilderness in europe. i would like to start by making the general observation that many of the issues highlighted in the report are already being followed up by the commission. for example, in december 2008, the commission adopted a communication, ‘towards an eu strategy on invasive species’. we are also launching an overall reflection on the future of eu biodiversity policy and look forward to the input of the european parliament on these questions. issues such as improving implementation and the relationship between biodiversity and climate change must be explicitly considered. it is also important to add one clarification to the report. there is an ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of our nature legislation – the so-called article 17 reports – but there are currently no plans to amend our legislation, and the main focus is on more effective implementation. turning to the subject of wilderness, europe is densely populated and only 1-2% of the territory has not been affected by human intervention. but while these wilderness areas are small in area, they are of high value in both scientific and cultural terms. they can even, as is the case in the common trans-border national park of the german bavarian and czech bohemian forests, be a symbol for european cooperation and integration. most of these areas are already a part of the natura 2000 network. however, this report provides the inspiration to look again at the wild and nearly wild areas in the eu and to see if there are instances where additional european actions can help protect these special places. the commission has commissioned a number of studies and is cooperating with the czech eu presidency. a conference will take place in prague in may 2009. this conference will offer a platform to consider the issues related to wilderness areas in europe and identify measures needed to ensure their conservation. let me conclude by confirming that the commission recognises that europe’s landscape is the result of a long process of human intervention. the concept of a living landscape that balances the needs of nature with the needs of man is the basis of the thinking that underpins natura 2000. we certainly do not intend to re-convert our existing landscapes into wild nature, but we need to publicly commit ourselves to preserving the last remaining wild areas of europe. for this reason, the commission considers the european parliament resolution timely. it represents a very welcome input into the prague conference. thank you very much to the rapporteur.
we are of course glad to note your statement, but i would remind you that the use of rule 45 is in the hands of the conference of presidents and that in the conference of presidents votes are weighted, that is to say that the large groups, including yours, have a great deal of power to decide what should go to the plenary under one article or another. i am a little bit like you, i have to say that we may have gone from a phase of too much laxity to a phase of too much rigidity and that the truth is certainly somewhere in between. but we'll get the right people to follow, so don't worry. i would also like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to turn to your group chairmen. i think that's where your message will be best understood. the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by mr luís queiró, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on an agenda for a sustainable future of general and business aviation (2008/2134 (ini)) (a6-0501/2008).
, member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the report and thanks the rapporteur and the committee for their excellent work. in january 2008 the commission for the first time published a communication on general and business aviation. this was followed by a very positive council conclusion in april 2008, and now by this important report of parliament. general and business aviation is an important sector of the eu aeronautical industry, worth about eur 2.3 billion annually. it invests substantially in research and development, and is growing fast. over two thirds of all aircraft certified in the eu are in this sector. general and business aviation mainly comprises small and medium-sized enterprises. it is also a very diversified sector. the regulations need to be adapted to this specific nature, without, however, compromising safety or security. we are happy to see that this notion of proportionality is encouraged by parliament in its report. there are three main areas on which we will have to focus our efforts in the nearest future: development of common eu safety standards for general aviation; integration of non-commercial aviation into the next generation of air traffic management (atm) systems for europe; and reducing the negative environmental footprint of the sector. the commission intends in the coming year to propose a number of eu implementing rules ensuring a uniform level of safety of non-commercial aviation. as highlighted in your report, we have to make sure that they are not only providing for an adequate level of safety, but are also proportionate and do not impose unnecessary burden on operators. we will also continue the development of the future atm system for europe with a clear understanding that airspace is a common good that should be accessible for all its users in a safe way. from the perspective of general aviation, the single european sky and sesar will be of the utmost importance for enhancing, in a safe way, access to airspace and aerodromes. these technologies will open the way to new services, as yet unseen in europe. last but not least, general and business aviation, despite the ongoing technological advances, are also impacting on the environment and, like the wider airline industry, they need to contribute to reducing these impacts. here as well, proportionality will be an important principle to follow. the commission is looking forward to working with parliament along the lines of the report, and will report back on the progress made.
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by anna záborská, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on non-discrimination on grounds of sex and solidarity between generations (2008/2118 (ini)) (a6-0492/2008).
yes, colleague, same remark as before with mrs doyle. we are applying rule 45, which indeed sets a very strict framework for our speaking time, since only the rapporteur speaks. we are dependent on the conference of presidents, which decided that this subject should be dealt with under that article. our rules of procedure should certainly be changed to allow for more flexibility and richer debates, but it is not for me, as you will understand, to change them tonight. however, your point is obviously taken into account. the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by malcolm harbour, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on pre-market public procurement: promoting innovation to ensure sustainable and quality public services in europe (2008/2139 (ini)) (a6-0018/2009).
member of the commission. − mr president, i could not agree more, because pre-commercial procurement serves a twofold goal. it improves the quality of public services, but most of all it opens up opportunities for industry to take the lead in international markets. so it is money very well spent, above all in a time of crisis when we need to help our industry to put into practice the results of research and to make the best use of technological solutions and innovations. i am very glad that the rapporteur, mr harbour, together with the commission, has supported what has been in the pipeline for quite a long time. but there is a difference between being in the pipeline and being put into practice. i really hope that parliament’s report will become a trigger and an important element to add to our research and innovation policy. indeed, triggering a strong public-sector demand for the development of new innovative products and services in europe can make a difference, especially for our smes, and that is why i welcome the initiative. i congratulate mr harbour on his work. what are the next concrete steps we will have to take? as an immediate response to the concrete recommendations in the report, i can confirm that the commission will support actions to promote the sharing of experience and awareness-raising, and will explore the means to provide incentives for procurers across a number of member states in order to implement pre-commercial procurement projects jointly. the commission has already opened calls for proposals – in the interreg, cip and fp7 programmes – to support the establishment of networks of public authorities on pre-commercial procurement. in the medium to long term, i believe that governments in europe should incorporate pre-commercial procurement in their strategic planning for public investments. i think that the recovery packages would be a good place to start. on the commission side, i will emphasise this in a communication planned for early march this year, in which i will propose a strengthened strategy for ict research, development and innovation for europe, so pre-commercial procurement will be included in this report. as you know, some member states have already started experimenting with pre-commercial procurement pilot projects. in the coming months we hope to see more of those, and i invite the members of the committee, and also the members of this house, to go back to their countries and to talk to the ministers and the municipalities about pre-commercial procurement. we can only make a difference if we work together. thank you very much for giving a helping hand here.
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate our colleague, mr caudio fava, on the remarkable work he has done in recent months to produce a balanced text. the task was not easy, and the road was full of pitfalls. i would like to stress three points. the penalty here lies with the employer who is guilty, while the migrant is considered a victim. in addition to financial penalties, criminal sanctions are provided for in the event of repeated offences, trafficking in human beings or exploitation of minors. i think that these criminal sanctions are essential, and i think that we must also ensure that regular checks are carried out so that this directive can be effective. another positive point i would like to make is the automatic payment of arrears of wages to workers. finally, the interests of irregular workers are defended by associations and trade unions, so that they can denounce the employer without risking prosecution. of course, as is the case here with many other texts, we could have gone further, but can we take the risk of adopting a compromise position when this text already allows for serious progress in the protection of workers and their dignity? we must support a balanced approach to migration and recognise that labour immigration is more than necessary and will become even more so in the future given demographic projections. in this context, it is therefore essential to affirm that the model we want is one in which immigrant workers are recognized as full-fledged workers, enjoying the same rights as workers in the member states. it is therefore essential that we take action to defend these rights and that is why i believe we must support this report, because it is a decisive step in establishing minimum standards and in the fight against illegal work and the exploitation of migrant workers.
madam president, this draft directive, which is of paramount importance in the fight against illegal immigration, was essential for the establishment of a common immigration policy. we all know that illegal employment is the main attraction of the thousands of men and women who cross our borders every day, hoping to find decent work and feed their families. in reality, they often face employers who use and abuse their fragile situation and lack of awareness of their rights to exploit them and use them as cheap labour. it's called modern slavery. we must not hide the fact that this phenomenon also affects persons, european citizens or nationals of third countries, who are legally resident but do not fall within the scope of this directive, which is precisely part of the fight against illegal immigration. this is not to point the finger at the men and women who are often well-meaning but who fall victim to dishonest networks or employers. the purpose of this text must be precisely to protect these vulnerable people and to ensure that their most basic, most fundamental rights are respected, and that is precisely the stated purpose and ambition of the compromise reached. nor is it a question of putting all employers in the same boat. of course, there is a difference in treatment between those who hire in good faith and those who think they are in a regular situation and those who exploit this situation. we'll have to be firm, we'll have to send a clear message. it is a matter of courageous measures and of their conscientious application. the adoption of this text will indeed send two clear signals. one is in the eyes of employers, who will no longer be able to continue to abuse this vulnerable workforce and will thus be genuinely discouraged from recruiting an illegal immigrant, the other is in the eyes of those thousands of candidates for illegal immigration, who will be discouraged by the rigorous conditions of employment in europe. i thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteur, and i hope, as do many others, that this text will be put in place quickly in order to combat illegal immigration, and thus promote immigration...
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate our colleague, mr claudio fava, on his excellent work, which will lead to the adoption of a directive providing for sanctions against employers of illegal workers. however, i would like to draw your attention to the complexity of the present situation, because we have to develop legislation that is commensurate with this complexity. throughout the european union, contractors are increasingly using cascade subcontractors from member countries, without knowing whether the employees employed are in legal status. an amendment had been proposed to check the legality of the situation of their employees. why wasn't he integrated? on the other hand, it is provided that the main contractor is responsible for the payment of wages, but only if he knew that the subcontractors employed illegal nationals. but you will not find any employer who will, of course, willingly admit his guilt. in the end, the best directive will only be effective if the means of control are actually put in place. we could take these checks a step further by strengthening the number and role of labour inspectors in each european country. it is essential to devise an even more rigorous legal framework as soon as possible so that the contractors are held fully responsible in the event of subcontractors' failure. we must not, therefore, ignore the known practices of certain economic sectors which are complicit in organized illegal immigration.
in writing. this report has several merits. the first is educational: it sets out the alarming trend of the increase in illegal immigration in europe: an immigration estimated by the commission's own figures at between 4.5 million and 8 million, and it identifies the sectors of the economy in which illegal work is most concentrated: construction, agriculture, cleaning, the hotel and catering industry. the second merit is that of intensifying the fight against undeclared work, in particular by the possibility of financial and criminal sanctions against employers of illegal workers. unfortunately, there are many limitations to this relationship. there is no mention of what measures should be taken to stop these intermittent flows of illegal immigration. the reintroduction of internal border controls is not even contemplated. in addition, in times of social and economic crisis and of a sharp rise in unemployment, the first necessity for the countries of the union is to protect their jobs. this requires the establishment of national and european policies of social protectionism. we must reserve jobs for french people in france and for europeans in europe. it is the application of the principles of national and european preference and protection as essential conditions for the economic and social recovery of the countries of the european union.
in writing. everyone is aware that the energy issue is a major issue for the member states. energy savings, improvements in energy efficiency, research and the commercialisation of renewable energy or new technologies in transport, diversification of suppliers - all these are known ways of reducing dependence. and we do not dispute the need for some cooperation, or even the organization, on an intergovernmental basis, of solidarity between states. but in reality it seems that the development of an energy strategy or security of supply is much less important in the report than the establishment of a single energy policy or a single gas and electricity network under the auspices of a single european regulator for each sector. however, the choices, needs, opportunities and capacities of states remain extremely different. this sensitive issue is indeed strategic and as such should be the sole responsibility of the sovereign will of the states and the respect of their interests. but the aim is once again to increase the powers of the brussels bureaucracy. from skyrocketing electricity prices to regular power outages, we know what to expect when it comes to electricity efficiency. that is why we voted against this report.
in writing. the report again proposes the nuclear option, since this energy is not competitive and uranium is obtained under dangerous conditions, with ethnic discrimination and with unacceptable health impacts. coal, in the face of the problem of global warming, should not be considered a 'transitional component'. i believe that the 'diversification of eu energy resources' is linked to the exploitation of fossil resources in the caspian sea. oil and gas fields in the kashagan region put pressure on the population and its environmental resources: the extraction of sulphur-laden oil puts the health of the population and biodiversity at risk. diversification of energy supply involves pipelines of gas and oil to bring resources to the eu. the tbc or nabucco projects are a threat to the political stability of our neighbours and force us not to compromise it by our energy needs. the people of the south caucasus must derive economic and social benefits from the supply of energy from their territories. in africa, the production of solar energy for our needs must be properly remunerated. why not say in the report that renewable energy and energy saving are the solution for the future? as things stand, i am voting against this report.
in writing. from ms záborská's explanatory memorandum we learn that the aim of her report is the fair social and economic recognition of certain activities which cannot be defined as 'formal market employment'. in short, the main focus is on child rearing, but also, in our ageing societies, on the care of dependent persons. this was worth mentioning, because it is not obvious at first sight, not in the title of the report, which speaks of discrimination, or even at first reading of a text written in a sometimes strange style. in short, the text rightly speaks of recognition by society, of the inclusion in national accounts of all this wealth created, although invisible, of freedom of choice, and even mentions the granting of specific rights in the field of social security and retirement to those who would choose to devote themselves to their family rather than to a career. it is a pity, however, that mrs záborská does not go to the end of her logic by forgetting the only measure which is really capable of allowing both a real freedom of choice and a revival of birth by removing the financial constraint: the parental wage, which the national front has been proposing for years.
in writing. child sexual abuse and child pornography are particularly heinous crimes which, in the age of the internet and sex tourism, deserve stronger legislation, increased cooperation between police and judicial services and better support for victims. the report by mrs angelilli deserves our support. but i would like to remind you that apart from technological developments that increase the opportunities for perverts to fulfill their vice, we must also look to moral decay and the degradation of values as one of the reasons for the rise of this type of crime. only thirty years ago, in the name of a supposed liberalization of morals, unfettered enjoyment for all and a pseudo-personal fulfillment of the individual from an early age, a certain political movement promoted the sexual activities of children, including in the columns of the french newspaper le monde, the organ of the left of the salons. if this vile speech is, let us hope, now rejected, its authors continue to perpetrate it and their political movement continues to give lessons without ever having made a mea culpa. one last comment: why is the only right that is not recognized for children in most of our states is their right to be born?
mr president, i think we should not be used as an outlet for the arbitrary policy which the united states of america, unfortunately, in defiance of our common western principles, has deliberately pursued in this zone of colonial survival, a zone of lawlessness cynically chosen so that neither the law of cuba - which, as my colleague mr dillen has said, is not a protection for individuals - nor the law of the united states, nor the international law which is our common heritage, applies there. the problem seems to me to be legally clear. if there are common law criminal charges against some of the prisoners, they should be tried in the legal forms. if they are suspected of having organized the attacks of september 11, for example, they should have been brought before the courts of the united states seven years ago, with the charges against them, with lawyers, with the courts. yet, there is no shortage of them in the united states of america! if others are considered prisoners of war after the allied intervention in afghanistan, they were to be held under the conditions of the law of war until the official end of hostilities. if there are prisoners who don't fit into either of those two categories, well, they should be released and sent home. i am told that some are potentially dangerous, but if i had been held for seven years in the most complete isolation, i might not have been potentially dangerous at the start, but i would certainly have become potentially dangerous on arrival! i think most of us here are. if some do not wish to return, it is up to them to ask their prison guards for political asylum. i would like to thank commissioner barrot for his work and for his investigations, which will no doubt tell us in 20 years' time what the final outcome of these illegal transfers of prisoners was.
mr president, according to information from the cia and ngos, 728 prisoners passed through portuguese territorial space between 2002 and 2006 on their way to guantánamo. how many by spain, italy or another member state? the eu has not taken the lead in the fight against terrorism by opposing the exception to international law, but is now trying to follow through on obama's commitments. the european parliament has also called for the release of the hostages and for the release of the prisoners of conscience. not out of solidarity, not out of charity, not out of generosity, but simply out of respect for our international commitments. beyond the message sent by obama, will europe be able to stand up, will europe be able to investigate, target, take responsibility, but also end up with an illegal complicity in extraordinary restitutions? will europe be able to reform the control of its own secret services? will the union be able to rehabilitate the victims through judicial processes and reparations? i welcome mr barrot's voluntary declaration to this effect. but i must also note that while we know more and more about what the former portuguese prime minister covered from 2002 to 2004, the results of his initiatives as head of the european commission to take the union out of the grey area of the non-right remain a blank page. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, we have all campaigned for the closure of guantánamo and we have all welcomed president obama's decision to close this prison of shame. today, the question of welcoming guantanamo prisoners should not be a question for us. as europeans, faithful to our values of defending human rights, we must take responsibility for welcoming these former prisoners. we have read - and i am addressing the council here - that some member states were not very receptive to this welcome. so i would really like to appeal to the council and in particular to the reluctant member states to accept the admission of these prisoners to their territories. and i will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the worst thing would be if the good momentum generated by the closure of guantánamo were to be stifled because we would not have responded in person when europe was called upon to do so.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, our parliament has the honour of continually defending respect for human dignity in all circumstances, including, of course, the conditions of detention of illegal immigrants. i shall concentrate on the case of the administrative detention centre in mayotte, whose problems i am well aware of. the difference in living standards and economic and social development between the islands of this archipelago in the indian ocean is driving a large number of comorians to cross the 70 kilometres that separate them from mayotte, which is a french departmental collectivity, as you said, commissioner barrot, and which therefore, as an oct, is not a european territory. the people who are in an irregular situation on the island of mayotte represent 30% of the population, i say 30% of the population. this is a percentage that none of our european countries, thank god, know. it obviously has a very strong impact on mahora society and is a source of serious difficulties in terms of infrastructure and public services, crime and illegal work. the french authorities are well aware of these difficulties. renovation work on the current cra has just been completed to significantly improve the living conditions of the persons selected. in addition to these interim measures, the french government has also decided to build a new detention centre with a better capacity, meeting national standards, which is due to be delivered in june 2011. europe, which has just adopted common rules to take its share of the world's legal immigration, must not hide the fact that some regions are facing extreme situations. the stigmatisation of the mayotte cra does not provide a quicker or more effective solution, since the migratory pressure is putting the island under such strain. mayotte is about to make historic decisions for its future, to become a french overseas department and then to join the community by gaining the status of an outermost region of the union, and i believe that the mahorais need our help more than our criticism.
mr president, back in 2005, we were already deeply moved by the catastrophic situation of the migrants being held on the island of lampedusa, beyond the actual reception capacity. the situation is difficult for this small island, which in 2008 alone had to deal with the arrival of almost 31,700 immigrants. these massive flows had been well regulated in recent years by sending these migrants to other centres on the italian mainland. these transfers have been stopped by decision of the minister of the interior, and we are witnessing a serious deterioration of the situation. however, the præsidium project, co-managed by the ministry of the interior, unhcr and the italian red cross and partly funded by the eu, had become an example of good reception management. the decision to stop transfers to italy poses a real problem with regard to access to asylum procedures. as regards mayotte, it was already noted in 2007 that the theoretical capacity of the pamandzi centre was exceeded. the presence of 204 people, including miners, was noted, while the maximum number was 60 people. the current conditions are catastrophic: men sleep on the floor; no sleeping or toiletries are provided; the toilets are shared by men, women and children. the conditions of detention are degrading and undermine human dignity. the pressure of migration is certainly much greater in these territories, but the dignity of each person must be safeguarded and the analysis of each case must be carried out in accordance with the law. as has already been said, we urgently need a genuine european asylum and immigration policy and solidarity at union level. we have been asking the european parliament to do this for several years and we are therefore making a new appeal to the council.
mr president, in our cultures where the rule of law and human rights have been established, it is good to defend the rights of the minority individual, but it is quickly dangerous to legislate on the rights of non-national minorities as communities. for non-national minorities, and i shall confine my discussion to this, the community approach must be rejected because it will inevitably destroy the cohesion of many european nations. in the rule of law, the regulation of the will to live together must remain a matter for national competence. in this case, the majority cannot be the opponent of the minority, unless they have a definite doubt about democracy. poverty or threats have forced some to flee their homeland and seek refuge. the right to asylum is a kind of vote with the feet. fortunately, it has become a fundamental right. but, as with any right, the counterpart is duty. in this case, it is the obligation to conform to the rules, language, and customs of the host country. the right to asylum is a precious right because it is an inherent right of the human person. even if one belongs to a minority, it does not legitimize the birth of a community law. the ultimate allegiance must always be to the country in which one is settled. it is an illusion to believe that the juxtaposition of communities of passage, of separate memories, makes a country. in time, it becomes a field of indifference or battle. the host country, you either love it or you leave it. this is the responsibility that comes with freedom to come and go.
madam president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, our colleague florenz's report perfectly sums up the results of our long work on this major problem of global warming. we all know that the mechanisms to be implemented are colossal and that, above all, we must give ourselves the means to change our culture of unbridled development, by stimulating the evolution of our economy. the problem now is how we can implement all the recommendations in this report. we must find ways to combat global warming quickly. the current eu budget is insufficient to meet the objectives. nor will we be able to solve this major financing problem by using national budgets and private funds. the european commission estimates that €175 billion a year is needed to combat global warming. with a budget of 76 billion, we're a long way from that. the commission will therefore draw up an inventory of all existing instruments, but the preparation of proposals for the future financial framework will be a big job. to optimise all our actions in the face of this climate crisis, new resources are needed to create a european climate change fund which can be financed through the emissions trading system and which will be used to support adaptation, mitigation, sustainable consumption, energy efficiency, and a large part of which should be dedicated to the poorest countries. this requires political courage on the part of the council, the commission and the members of parliament, but it is the necessary, indispensable condition for the planet to rise to this challenge. there will be no future for our civilization if we europeans do not take the necessary measures to impose discipline on ourselves to conserve the climate. it is the major political act, the vital political act to give a balanced future to our continent and to others.... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, one could have said that this report was redundant after the vote on the energy and climate package last december. but no, this report has the merit of providing a very good summary of what we need to consider in the fight against climate change, and i take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, karl-heinz florenz, who had a very visionary spirit in drafting this report. let us not stop at speeches. let us ensure that the member states make a concrete commitment. i support my colleagues who have drawn our attention to the need for a budget that is in line with our ambitions. after the success story of the energy-climate package under the french presidency, we must do everything we can to achieve a good international agreement in copenhagen. but there is cause for concern. 2009 is a year of european elections, with the change of the european commission. the concern is heightened by the statements of the president of the czech republic, who says that global warming does not exist. well, even if he was right, our entire mechanism to fight climate change is a response to the severe economic crisis that we're in. the scarcity of our energy resources, the need for energy security, deforestation, the suffocation of our large cities, where most of the population is concentrated, the need, therefore, for sustainable transport, the inexorable world hunger and the need to feed the planet, all argue in favour of the proposed solutions to combat climate change. we are entering the era of sustainable growth, this third industrial revolution, which is a tremendous asset for research, innovation, employment, the competitiveness of our companies. energy efficiency should already be part of all recovery plans, since it is based on innovative technologies. so by lowering the energy bill, the consumer is satisfied. by reducing fossil fuel consumption, the european union is becoming more independent and emits less carbon, and this is leading to thousands of new jobs. yes, tackling climate change is one of the answers to the economic crisis. it will be done by developing a low carbon economy, with the participation of local communities, businesses, researchers, the participation of all citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we can congratulate ourselves here on the broad consensus, but we are still in a deadlock: commissioner for the environment, ministers for the environment, what is the weight of the environment in the commission and in the councils, in the governments? we know that. i myself was not at all in favour of the setting up of this committee because i think that to isolate something, there is no such thing as creating a new committee. in france, they call it a "theodule commission". i wonder what the future of this report will be in terms of its integration into european policies. i will only remind some of the colleagues who were there in 1992 that there was an excellent report on sustainable development. this excellent report was not even voted on, and it was voted unanimously, and then it was completely buried. perhaps if we had introduced it into european policies, we would not be here today. i would like to address myself to the rapporteur, who refuses to present a political proposal. but yes, mr rapporteur, this is a political project that you are presenting, since it is a total reorientation of european policies, at the agricultural level, at the fisheries level, at the transport level. so, yes, we have to be more ambitious, and we expect results.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the florenz report sets out a very detailed list of actions to be taken to combat climate change and develop accompanying policies. it is, however, fraught with structural weaknesses which point to the necessary and desirable reorientation of the european union. the big shortages are financial. if the creation of a carbon tax is envisaged, its study and implementation, like that of a systematic carbon balance sheet by product, are not included in the 2009-2014 action programme! but it is a vital element. no budgetary amount is mentioned for specific and targeted actions and projects, whether for public infrastructure or innovative industrial policies, regional development, aid to local authorities or research/development. in industrial matters, the reference to 'legislative instruments' cannot be sufficient. similarly, the creation of a european climate fund is subject to the imperative 'to leave it to the market to determine which technologies should be used...'. it will therefore not have a long-term vision or the general interest ... it is absurd. it is therefore essential that the eu addresses very quickly the issue of a carbon tax, public aid to support a green new deal, and the eu budget for climate change prevention.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fava report on the draft directive which provides for sanctions against employers of illegal immigrants. according to commission figures, between 4.5 and 8 million third-country nationals live clandestinely in the european union and are therefore the prime targets of unscrupulous employers who make their living from clandestine work. it is essential for us to put more emphasis on these practices which are unworthy of a europe where respect for fundamental rights must apply to all. the time has come to finally emphasize the responsibility of those who take advantage of this particularly vulnerable population. we must stop criminalizing these exploited people by stigmatizing illegal immigrants. the measures we are advocating here are not only to punish abusive bosses but also to defend a number of social rights such as the right to be represented by a trade union. however, we must not claim victory too soon, because the threat of sanctions is not enough, we must also have the legal instruments of control that go with it. only then will we be able to put in place an effective common immigration policy.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by a very large majority of the draft directive, which is of paramount importance in the fight against illegal immigration and is essential for the establishment of a comprehensive common immigration policy. the illegal employment is the main attraction of the thousands of men and women who cross our borders every day hoping to find decent work there to feed their families. in reality, they are simply becoming slaves to certain employers who use and abuse their fragile situation and lack of knowledge of their rights to exploit them and use them as cheap labour. this directive sends a double message: one to fraudulent employers, who will no longer be able to abuse the situation with impunity, and the other to illegal immigrants, who will be deterred by stricter conditions for access to legal employment. the compromise reached with the council is satisfactory and we can only hope that the member states will implement this directive swiftly to put an end to the vulnerability of thousands of people in europe.
in writing. the general ban on the employment of irregular workers to deter illegal immigration must be approved. we must also approve the sanctions against employers who use, often to the detriment of their employees, and who are nothing but modern-day slave traders. a few hiccups, though. once again, the european union is taking advantage of a case based on a community legal basis (the first pillar) to extend its powers in the field of the harmonisation of the criminal law of the member states. with the notable exception of ireland and the united kingdom, which have invoked their so-called opt-out option recognised by the treaties. i am also reminded of the events in france following a strike in a trendy restaurant in the city of neuilly, which is dear to sarkozy: bosses who are victims of an overly rigid labour market or protectors of a workforce that they pay the legal minimum; the directive will further strengthen this by providing for the possibility of regularization only if the employer is declared illegal! i fear that in practice, in countries as lax as france in this respect, all this does not limit the air appeals to illegal immigration.
in writing. this report has several merits. the first is to have an educational purpose. it sets out the alarming trend of the increase in illegal immigration into europe, estimated by the commission's own figures at between 4.5 million and 8 million, and identifies the sectors of the economy where illegal work is most concentrated: construction, agriculture, cleaning, hotel and catering. the second merit is that of intensifying the fight against undeclared work, in particular by the possibility of financial and criminal sanctions against employers of illegal workers. unfortunately, there are also many limitations to this relationship. there is no mention of what measures should be taken to stop these intermittent flows of illegal immigration. the reintroduction of internal border controls is not even contemplated. in addition, in times of social and economic crisis and of a sharp rise in unemployment, the first necessity for the countries of the union is to protect their jobs. this requires the establishment of national and european policies of social protectionism. we must reserve jobs for french people in france and for europeans in europe. it is the application of the principles of preference and national and european protection as essential conditions for the economic and social renewal of the countries of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the return and reintegration of detainees from the guantanamo detention centre. it seems to me that europe can only welcome the decision of us president barack obama to close the detention centre, something that many of us have been calling for for several years. i therefore think it is appropriate to respond now to the call from the usa to put forward a common position which is in line with the values of the european union. it is essential that we are able to clean up our own borders and that the european countries which have allowed the cia to transfer prisoners secretly are also held accountable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten years ago, certainly to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary and to redefine its area of competence, which was limited by the washington convention, nato was bombarding belgrade militarily. these bombings were carried out in violation of international law, that is, without any prior agreement of the un. a year ago, pristina unilaterally declared kosovo's independence, in utter disregard of the sovereignty of the federal republic of yugoslavia, whose sovereignty and territorial integrity had been reaffirmed by un security council resolution 1244. today, the eulex mission, together with american experts, is hoping that kosovo can become a state governed by the rule of law. if the situation were not so dramatic, there would be some humor in asking how, with such origins, such a fruit could be obtained. in the meantime, we ask that this mission ensure that the serbian national minority is respected and valued in the land of its ancestors. this seems to us to be a good start for the restoration of law and order.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am afraid that the message that has just been delivered is certainly not a message of hope and confidence. i was agreeing with your penultimate paragraph, commissioner, on what the car industry should be. i am afraid, unfortunately, that the proposals put forward are not up to the challenge and, above all, that they encourage some member states to take matters into their own hands when europe is unable to coordinate. what are our fellow citizens waiting for today? they expect a lot from europe, certainly too much, but they expect us to do something else. the automobile industry, as you said, is 12 million jobs in the european union, 10 per cent of gdp. in france, this is 2.5 million jobs, or 10% of wage-earning employment. that's 15% of research and development spending. the automotive sector is currently experiencing an unprecedented crisis, characterised by a cyclical drop in demand, by a need for financing, both from manufacturers and subcontractors, but also from consumers, and by a structural challenge to the competitiveness of companies in an increasingly pressing global competition. if i were not afraid to be politically incorrect, i would add that the requirements imposed on the car industry and the discouragement to use vehicles also contribute to this situation. a coordinated european response is essential and urgent to build on and amplify the actions already undertaken by various states. firstly, it is essential that the banking system finances the automobile industry normally, that is to say at normal rates and conditions and in volumes corresponding to the needs of this industry. and despite the eib's efforts, we know that today the lending has not restarted. if not, europe will have to provide an important response. secondly, it is not just a question of limiting the impact of the crisis, but of giving the automobile industry a new future. a genuine industrial policy is essential. we must plan for the world of tomorrow and accelerate the necessary changes, particularly with regard to environmental protection and the requirements of sustainable development. we need to develop a culture of anticipation. it is essential that the effort to innovate should not be at the expense of the crisis and that public aid should make it possible to act in this area.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know the structural causes of the crisis in the automobile sector and its subcontractors. this sector, like agriculture and textiles, is suffering from relocations and social, environmental and fiscal dumping. what are we going to do when the americans sell their energy-intensive, subsidized and doped 4x4s and at a dollar's worth of downside to our market, which is also being attacked by low-end vehicles from turkey, india or china? there's still a way. the common external tariffs, which were abandoned by the maastricht agreements, must be reinstated. only countervailing duties at the union's frontiers can restore genuine and fair international trade. let us dare, before it is too late, what common sense commands. but as you know, protocol 27 of the lisbon treaty and article 63 of that protocol strictly prohibit any customs protection of the european market. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us be consistent. let's not cherish the things that hurt us so much. let us bury this evil treaty once and for all and stop playing the pyromaniac fireman.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must return to the great industrial policies which have been the foundation of the european union. this was the case for coal and steel. the strength of these policies was that they were both tools for modernisation - and here, this must be the decarbonisation of the automotive sector - and, at the same time, policies of a social nature, supporting and defending employees, their training and protection. so i make four proposals. the first is the creation of a european fund to support workers in the motor industry, which goes beyond the modernization fund, because what is important is to keep workers in the companies during these key periods, by supporting their level of pay in the event of parttime unemployment and by supporting their training within the company. we cannot simply assume that the employees who are made redundant will be re-employed. second, we need to create an agency for innovation and accelerate funding for research and development to go very fast and close this technology gap of clean vehicles and safe vehicles. thirdly, we must speed up the renewal of the park. bonuses for breakage can be effective. they must be harmonised at eu level to avoid unfair competition. but i'll close on this point. i hear the competition, but you have to. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the right to consular and diplomatic protection is one of the pillars of european citizenship. you have quoted article 20 of the treaty. it's very clear. every citizen has the right to consular protection. it's not an option, it's a right. the tragic events in bombay show us that this right is far from being guaranteed. the levels of protection vary from one member state to another, leading to discrimination in the treatment of citizens, who are never informed of which consulate to contact in case of need. financial solidarity is clearly lacking between the member states. european citizens who have lost everything often have to face consular offices that are very reluctant to bear the financial costs. it is the duty of the member states to put an end to this situation. it is necessary to make the guidelines binding and to provide information for citizens. the union must enter into negotiations with third states in order to ensure the necessary diplomatic protection. but, as you said, commissioner, the events in bombay have also shown the unacceptable absence of a guarantee of diplomatic protection for members of the european parliament. the european union, and in particular the commission, must negotiate without delay - and we have heard what you have told us, commissioner - and the council must conclude ad hoc agreements with third countries to ensure specific diplomatic protection for members of the european parliament. it's the least we can do.
president-in-office of the council. − all these questions are about issues which we are discussing almost on a daily basis now. on the lisbon treaty, we all know that it contains solidarity formulas which should help us to enforce the legal framework for better cooperation in the area of energy within the eu. that is one part of the story. at the same time i think we have learnt some lessons during the current crisis. one thing is the solidarity as a political slogan. the other one is the need to react quickly in a time of crisis and to respond, for example, to a difficult situation which we had in bulgaria or slovakia during the crisis. so we need to have some improvement of the interconnections in particular in central and eastern europe in the area of gas supplies. we need to have a compressor on the pipeline to be able to reverse the flow. for example, my country has it because it modernised and invested, but the slovaks did not. so that brings me to your question as to whether there is some investment programme to cover short- or medium-term needs – there is. in fact, today i had some meetings with the respective chairs of the committee on budgets, the committee on industry, research and energy as well as the committee on agriculture and rural development, because eur 5 billion remains, which was not spent last year, and it has been agreed within the european economic recovery plan to allocate that for some infrastructure projects. as far as the commission has proposed late last month, eur 3.5 billion out of those five should be allocated to the interconnection projects which can be realised in the next two years, 2009 to 2010, in the area of gas connections, electricity grid interconnections and connecting gas with the offshore wind turbines in the north of europe. so, yes, there is a plan and my view on nord stream is that there is a debate, we all know that. i think one lesson of the current crisis between moscow and kiev is this: that we should have the means to make it possible to solve these problems if they are repeated, both regarding russia and ukraine. there is the nabucco project, which should be able to bring gas to europe from countries other than russia, in other words the caspian basin. but we also should be able to diversify the transit route of gas to europe so that this is not just one country. i think, in this respect, ukraine is serving us as the only terrestrial supplier. so there are some concerns about the possible environmental impact. some member states are raising the question, so there is no secret about that, but i think that at the end of the day we need to have diversification of both routes and suppliers.
president-in-office of the council. − i see avril doyle and i am asking myself whether i am the other side of this question: the last time we discussed this was in the only place in this building where i as a heavy smoker can smoke! i guess that you observed that, and that is one of the reasons why i now have the obligation to answer your question. my mother was always advising me to speak truthfully at every opportunity so now i have a dilemma: to read this or to speak my mind. but i shall use this opportunity to start at the personal level. i am a member of the 30% minority in europe: i am a heavy smoker, and i feel terribly discriminated against in this building. i appeal to you as a person, not on behalf of the council, to provide better conditions for appeasing our habit. but now i have to respond to this question. the question is about the state of the ratification process in the czech republic. i can assure you that the ratification process of the framework convention in the czech republic is in progress. it has been in progress since 2003, and the new attempt to find approval in the czech parliament is ongoing. the new czech minister for health – who, like her predecessor, smokes – has the new proposal aimed at renewing ratification and will send it to the inter-agency process, so it will reach parliament pretty soon. the ratification process should be concluded if we find enough votes in parliament. in the senate i can assure you that this is not easy when our senators are travelling in europe and are facing the same problem as i do in this building. but i think one thing is important: that the legislation is fully implemented so all laws abide by those commitments which are part of the convention. regarding our approach as the presidency: the next formal meeting in the framework of the fctc will be the third meeting of the international negotiating body on a protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products. here my country, as well as the presidency, is fully committed to fighting the illicit trade in tobacco products. that will take place from 28 june to 5 july in geneva, so we will share this somehow with our friends the swedes, because that is the time when we, the czechs, will hand over the presidency to our friends in stockholm. that is the substance of my response.
president-in-office of the council. − to conclude this rather unusual evening’s debate, my mother smoked when she was pregnant, and here i am as the deputy prime minister of the czech republic, and my brother and sister are both in very good condition. my wife smoked as well and she still smokes. we have three nice, very intelligent, kids – so those are my private views. i notice that this issue attracts particular interest in ireland, and i know that you have adopted the measures. the date of our ratification is in the hands of the members of the czech parliament and the senate. parliament is sovereign. i am now fighting in my country for the earliest possible ratification of the lisbon treaty. during the debate on lisbon, i am often asked by the members of the senate whether the adoption of the lisbon treaty will lead to keeping their freedom of smoking in some public spaces. so i have a dilemma. what is more important: the lisbon treaty or this? but i can assure you that the government will do whatever it can to obtain ratification of both treaties. we signed both treaties, and the responsibility of the government is to do the best it can.
the next item is the commission statement on the dramatic consequences of the passage of the storm 'klaus' in southern europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, the european commission wishes to express its sadness at the number of lives claimed by storm klaus and sends its condolences to the french, italian and spanish families that have lost loved ones. this is indeed a human tragedy, which has had a devastating impact on people’s lives, homes and businesses. it is also an ecological disaster. while this storm was extremely powerful, it only affected a narrow band of territory, and national resources have been able to cope with the immediate disaster response. for this reason, the community civil protect mechanism was not activated. however, the commission’s monitoring and information centre has been in close contact with the concerned member states from the first moments when the storm was forecast. other member states were aware of the situation and were getting prepared to provide support to the affected regions. for example, the czech republic spontaneously offered its assistance. the commission is now cooperating with the authorities of the member states affected in order to identify options for eu support. possibilities may include through the eu solidarity fund or a reprogramming of the structural and rural development funds. storm klaus is an unpleasant reminder that natural disasters are a growing threat for all eu member states. devastating floods hit central europe in 2000 and 2002, the uk in 2007, and romania and eu neighbours last year. the 2003 heatwave claimed tens of thousands of lives. in 2003 and 2007 forest fires ravaged portugal and greece. these events give us an idea of how climate change is likely to affect the eu’s future because, as the climate changes, we can expect more extreme weather events. the member states and the community need to combine their strengths to prevent disasters, to limit their impacts and to improve the union’s disaster response capacity. the commission will shortly adopt a communication on ‘a community approach on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters’. we look forward to receiving feedback from the parliament on the ideas that are set out. the commission would also stress the importance of moving forward on the revision of the solidarity fund regulation. the proposal helps to accelerate the rate of response by allowing for advance payments, and it contains simpler criteria for an activation of the fund in less time. while the parliament largely supported the commission proposal, there has been no progress in the council. these initiatives are contributing to shape a genuine european disaster management policy, and the commission hopes that the european parliament will continue to support its efforts to reinforce the eu’s capacity to deal with natural and man-made disasters.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, i also speak on behalf of our colleague alain lamassoure. in november 1999, i had already spoken in this house after the storm that had struck south-west france, calling for european solidarity when large-scale natural disasters were devastating our countries. ten years ago i was told that there was no european fund to help our fellow citizens in distress. since 1999, although natural disasters have unfortunately continued to cause deaths and material damage in europe, european action has fortunately been strengthened by the creation in 2002, on the initiative of the commission and commissioner barnier, of the european union solidarity fund, a fund which enables us to intervene quickly, efficiently and within a flexible framework. in the present circumstances, i believe it is necessary to use this fund to help the affected regions, and i agree with the french government's request that it be activated as soon as possible. i have noted, madam commissioner, the commission's desire to speed things up. there is an emergency regarding the damaged infrastructure. there is also an emergency for the forest. i would like to stress this point because the storm has destroyed between 60 and 70% of the forest in the south of the gironde and the landes, whereas this forest, which is one of the first in europe, was barely recovering from the damage of 1996 and 1999. you know that there is no insurance for this kind of damage, and the foresters today are completely helpless in the face of this disaster. we must show them our solidarity and help them to rebuild the natural heritage of these regions. before concluding, let me have a thought for the victims of the storm klaus in france, spain and italy and let me offer my support to their families.
on behalf of the pse group. the images of the storm of 1999 - we have just been reminded of this - which hit south-west france and caused terrible damage are still etched in our collective memory. it goes without saying that europe was not prepared to experience such a tragedy again, so soon after. some see it as a stroke of fate, but i see it as a macabre illustration of the climate disorder you have just mentioned, madam commissioner, to which we are only providing a rough solution, even though there is urgency. it is a reality that we must face responsibly. unfortunately, we must prepare for many more natural disasters. on 24 and 25 january, the storm klaus, which hit southern europe, killed 11 people in france, 14 in spain and 3 in italy. it caused considerable damage, destroying schools, high schools, many homes, depriving thousands of people of electricity, heating, drinking water, telephones, and leaving some economic sectors in a critical situation, as in the timber industry. i would like to express my solidarity with the families of the victims and all those affected, and my support for the local elected representatives, but i would also like to take this opportunity to appeal to the european community, because, it must be said, such a situation requires a european response and first of all european solidarity. while the recognition of the status of natural disaster in france will facilitate the provision of support to the victims, this does not remove the need for coordinated european action to supplement the efforts of the member states to protect people, the environment and property in the affected communities and regions. in practical terms, this means first of all centralising information at european level in order to obtain an accurate assessment of the damage. secondly, it is essential to provide the necessary funds to support local authorities facing immense challenges, including support for public services, which have done an exceptional job and which we greatly need in order to restore infrastructure and equipment in the fields of energy, water supply, waste water, transport and telecommunications, health and education. previous disasters have shown the urgency of european action and have made it possible to include the prevention of natural hazards as one of the objectives of the erdf. europe must now demonstrate its capacity to react and to translate its solidarity into action. i hope, as you have just said, that the commission will hear this message and will be able to mobilise all the necessary means to respond to this emergency situation, in particular through the european union solidarity fund and the financial instrument for civil protection. finally, i would like to recall that, like the fires in greece in 2007, this violent storm has revealed the need for a civil protection force that can be mobilised in all crisis areas. i would like to hear your opinion on this matter, commissioner, and your response to the european parliament's request, which in its resolution of 27 april 2006 called for the creation of a european observatory on natural disasters to ensure a more effective european response when these unfortunate events occur.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, on 18 november last i said in this very place: 'we do not know what the next disaster will be, nor how big it will be, but we are certain of one thing, namely that there will soon be another disaster. and then our fellow citizens, who for the last 50 years have been accustomed to seeing a europe built on solidarity, will ask us: 'what have you done?' i repeat, i said that here in this house last november. in this very house, in november 2006, two years ago, i said much the same thing. if there is one area in which all our fellow citizens in europe expect an effective community response, it is to respond to natural disasters. i said that everyone had seen it in the tsunami and so on, and that is why my group and i support the establishment of preventive measures and the ability to react very quickly after a disaster. i would like to emphasize the quality of the barnier report, which has put the problem well and provides good answers in terms of efficiency and also in terms of subsidiarity. we have all been very interested in this report, madam commissioner, because it is extremely practical and practical. it even contains budgetary elements and explains that with 10% of the solidarity fund, the financing is assured. it explains in a very pragmatic way how to work with the vital forces of each of the states. with the twelve proposals contained in this barnier report, we had everything to implement a european action which, a few weeks before the elections next june, would have shown, if necessary, the usefulness and effectiveness of a genuine european operational solidarity. you have just told us, commissioner, that you expected the support of the european parliament. you got that support. you still have it. what is the council doing, since you tell us it is the council? the council isn't here tonight. we hope that beyond this debate he will hear our call, not a cry for help, not another surprise exclamation about the tragedy that has just occurred, but that he will hear the question i asked recently: 'what have you done?'
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask a few questions about the nature of the exercise we are doing tonight. i feel like we do this a lot, too much. every time there is a disaster, we gather here in this house and begin the chorus of mourners where we say, of course, that what has just happened is tragic, that we bow to the victims. of course, i do this as much as anyone else, but i feel that our role does not end there. our role may be, as our colleague said a moment ago, to plan for the future, because other environmental disasters are coming. we said it again this morning when we voted on the florenz report. we know that the climate is getting more disturbed. the storms of the century now come every decade and soon every year. when it's not a storm, it's a flood, when it's not a flood, it's dramatic wildfires. what is europe doing about this? i know very well that the council sees no further than its national umbilicus. the juxtaposition of twenty-seven bellybuttons does not yet make a great continental project. unfortunately, we suffer from it every time we have a tragedy. we are called to solidarity, but on the basis of what funds? i remember in the committee on budgets, when we were discussing the climate funds, we were talking about a few tens of millions of euros. that storm alone cost 1.4 billion! how many insurance-related slates will it take to make us realise that protecting the environment and the climate is not a burden, it is an investment in the future? we are still being told that the european forces must be mobilised when there is a crisis. but i remember that this was already discussed in this house after the azf explosion in my city in 2001. it was said that this european intervention force should be considered in order to show that in europe, in the event of human tragedy, the word 'solidarity' is not just an empty concept, but that we are taking concrete action. where is this european intervention force after all these years? i can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that i was at home in toulouse when the storm passed. i know what a major environmental drama is now. if i needed to know, now i've experienced it in the flesh of my house, in the tiles that have been pulled out, in the trees that have been laid. so i know now what these people have suffered, people who have seen, in one night, a life's work completely destroyed. but as long as we here in this parliament, you, madam commissioner, the commission and those absent from these hopelessly empty seats in the council tonight, as long as we have not all understood that we must have real budgetary means to fight disasters, and not be content with empty speeches, as long as we have not put european solidarity into practice through the concrete establishment of a rapid, continental-sized civic intervention force, we shall continue here, drama after drama, to be, once again, only the chorus of the mourners. the real answer to klaus, the storm, may have been given this morning by preparing copenhagen, and it may be tomorrow, commissioner, by finally releasing funds and finally creating this civic service that we so badly need at european level.
madam president, commissioner, the storm known as 'klaus' in german or 'nicolas' in french has devastated eight departments in south-west france, especially the landes, and hence the first impact on the forest. the equivalent of six years' harvest of timber is on the ground, or 50 million cubic metres of wood, either sawn or felled, on 300,000 hectares. the first thing to do is clear the forest to prevent the wood from rotting. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined. then we'll have to re-seed, re-plant, which means a 20-quan hole in the timber supply. the chain of supply ranges from the woodcutter to the coffee-maker, from the transporter to the nursery worker to the salesman. the second economy affected is that of poultry, sheep and cattle farmers. it's the roofs being torn off, the animals being lost, the food supplies being destroyed. this is why we need a european agricultural insurance fund against climate and health risks. the french presidency has spoken about it; the czech presidency should do so. a third silent victim, because it is never mentioned, is the elderly and isolated people in villages in france that still lack electricity. we need to create a european strategy for the fourth age, such as climate energy, that is to say, to deal with the consequences of climate change for the millions of people over 80 or 85 years of age. there is a fourth modern economy to be created to get out of the crisis and avoid the european geriatric rwanda we are going to, an economy with modern buildings, with pharmaceutical, medical research, a new network to avoid the continental medical gabon. and above all, we must avoid these climate accidents being an opportunity for darwinism and natural elimination, when we must build a europe of life.
madam president, the balance sheet after this storm is heavy, as my colleagues have said. there are victims in france, in spain, and tonight we think of them and we think of their families. in the south-west of france, 200,000 hectares of forest have been destroyed. in fact, this storm has destroyed 60% of the forest in lande. 1.7 million households were without electricity at the height of the storm, 3 200 are still without electricity in the landes. thousands of us were also affected by the phone cuts, as well as the water supply. many roadblocks still exist due to road obstructions caused by trees, power lines, floods or landslides. the emergency services are working hard to get everything back to normal as quickly as possible. while i welcome the fact that the french government has formally undertaken to submit a dossier so that the french regions affected can benefit from this fund, i regret that the french presidency has not considered it necessary to move forward with the revision of this fund. as you have said, commissioner, and my colleagues have also said, this fund is still blocked in the council of ministers. the house is calling for coverage of any major natural disaster causing serious damage to people and the environment, such as floods, fires and droughts. but we go further and also include man-made phenomena, such as disasters caused by terrorist attacks. our parliament has also voted in favour of lowering the intervention threshold. but if we ask whether this solidarity fund is working for our affected regions, we find that we are in danger of being below the damage threshold. but this is a situation in which, in the end, several countries are involved. so i think that this threshold should also be revised to show that european solidarity can really exist. you mentioned this, madam commissioner, and my colleagues have stressed that this will happen again with the effects of climate change. the commission has also already published a communication on adaptation to climate change. it is important that this solidarity fund should now be a genuine european instrument for the protection of citizens. it is time for europe to show that in dramatic situations it is there to protect citizens.
madam president, i would first of all like to join in expressing my condolences and sympathy to the families who were the first to be bereaved and to all those affected, especially the many isolated people who still lack electricity, water or public services. i have heard you, madam commissioner, promise us - and i believe you were right - to strengthen the crisis prevention mechanisms, but what we are talking about, please, tonight is the repair of the last one. this is the third catastrophic storm in 20 years. the first, it is forgotten, was in july 1988 in brittany. it still holds the record for the fastest winds, over 150 miles per hour. the second, of unprecedented magnitude, was on december 27, 1999. it's knocked down most of our forest for the first time. and the third is the one on january 24, 2009. as far as i can remember, i live in gironde, very close to the gironde forest. the first thing to do is to ask ourselves what the added value of the european union can be. the situation in the timber sector is catastrophic, and what threatens us is that the foresters will stop making the forest. in other words, some of them now consider that this profession has become untenable. we must therefore put a plan in place, and i am one of those who thought it was possible to envisage - this was already the case ten years ago - a common crisis organisation, so that all the timber that is now on the market can be disposed of quite involuntarily, without affecting the price, that is to say by blocking supplies from other european regions, by financing transport and by ensuring that these plots can be replanted very quickly, otherwise, i think, they will be the subject of speculation or even abandonment. this is a problem of direct concern to the european union. secondly, i am also thinking of oyster farmers. it's a profession that's in disarray today. it was already in 2002 after another disaster that was not natural at all, the prestige shipwreck, and now the oyster farmers of the arcachon basin are also desperate to be able to climb the slope. finally, i would like to see the european union solidarity fund mobilised. i agree with what mrs laperrouze said. today the council is not here. it will not hurt his ears or his heart, but i think it is extremely unfortunate that he refused to amend the regulation and that this fund is now so difficult to mobilise. i ask you, by the way, whether the french government itself has called him. i am one of those who will work to ensure that he does so, because i think it is very important, a few months before the elections, that our fellow citizens know that there is a europe of solidarity, and that it is not simply a europe of the market.
mr president, the good thing about animals is that the years pass and the problems remain the same. for example, for wild animals it is always about jaws traps, and for farm animals it is always about transport, breeding and food. animal food is a great classic, a catch-all, a trash can. you put antibiotics, clenbuterol, growth hormones, even the remains of other animals, and that's the whole thing with contaminated english flour in the 1990s. but today we're told that the era of junk food is over. there was a directive in 2002, a judgment of the court of justice in 2005 and now there is a concern to reconcile the market, profit - the so-called intellectual property - and consumer safety. so today we have a regulation. with the classic label tool, we will put all the components in descending order of weight, an open declaration, an annex iii, a tolerance of plus or minus 15%, and for the most curious, they can even ask for the exact composition. but two important questions remain. firstly, the imported animals, which were not labelled. president parish is here, he's been doing a lot of work on the animals that come in from brazil, that are unmarked, that are on clenbuterol. we don't know much about security. then there is the big question of imported food. that is to say, raw materials that have been coming in from the american continent since the 1960's! in the 1960s, it was called corn gluten feed, molasses, oilseed residues, and today it's called genetically modified soybeans from argentina, paraguay, brazil, genetically modified corn from canada or the united states. because we are against local gmos, but not against immigrant gmos, if i may say so. now, this is two-thirds of our livestock feed, and that's a real health issue. the tree of european health security hides the forest of global health dangers because of the uruguay round agreement, the blair house agreement, which means that we import our oilseeds to feed two thirds of our herds.
mr president, the excellent report by our colleague, which i congratulate, and which we are going to vote on today, is important because the european feed sector is one of the main agricultural sectors, both in terms of production, since it represents half of the agricultural production in the european union - 120 million tonnes - and in turnover - about 50 billion euros. the european union has 5 million farmers and 60 million households with pets. in the past, the european union has been able to cope with a number of health crises, so we must now be more vigilant about transparency, to meet the expectations of farmers, but also of consumers. the provisions in this report have the advantage of representing a minimum cost to industry and a great benefit to consumers, who are increasingly attentive to the quality of the products they buy. the adoption of this report will help to reduce risks by ensuring better product quality, better control, better traceability and better information for the farmer and, ultimately, for the consumer. today, with the increase in international trade, it is more than imperative to strengthen all preventive measures so that the food crises we have experienced in the past do not happen again. this report succeeds in reconciling the right to information, while strictly defining the nutritional elements that must appear on the labels and the right to intellectual property, so important to preserve the competitiveness of our industries. i think that manufacturers should be obliged to notify immediately any new raw material used in the composition of feedingstuffs, in order to ensure transparency and to facilitate control by the competent authorities. the inclusion of an emergency procedure which allows a new dangerous substance to be added to the list of prohibited substances seems to me to be absolutely essential. similarly, giving the farmer the possibility to question the competent national authority or the european commission in case of doubt about a unfair allegation, helps to lock in the system and protect the customer, while preserving the fairness of commercial transactions. i therefore wish to give my full support to this excellent report, because experience shows that regulations on the labelling of animal feed which give priority to quality and transparency, traceability and control are the best guarantee for preventing new health crises in europe.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, we have not been able to have a debate in plenary on this very important report, which is why it seems necessary to speak before you today on behalf of the committee. we have all worked together, and i commend the fantastic work of the fictional reporters. we have visited no less than 26 detention centres in europe, in ten member states, and we have noted several key points. we have noted the obvious state of disrepair and lack of hygiene in some centres and we have denounced the lack of respect for human dignity. we have seen that access to health care is not always possible and that the right to education for minors is not always respected. we call for clear, fair, effective and proportionate asylum procedures and for a system of visits and permanent inspections of detention centres. we need to be witnesses to the reality on the ground, to defend the right to see these centres, what this type of visit allows, and to act to change things. the question i was asked by the press was why we did not mention any country in this synthesis report. i said that this was my choice, that this was our choice, because we have a collective responsibility for what happens in detention centres in europe, and this report is not there to rank member states. we have always called for european solidarity on the question of asylum. we cannot leave the member states at the frontiers of europe to deal with large migratory flows alone. i repeat, we have a collective responsibility. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs roure is calling for particularly attractive reception conditions for asylum seekers: friendly, open accommodation - it is easier to disappear into the wild - wide access to care, including psychiatric care, legal assistance, translators or interpreters, training and even employment! it seems to forget the abuse by immigrants themselves of applications for international protection to circumvent national laws on the entry and stay of foreigners in our countries, when their real motives are social and economic. she also forgets that they can lie about their origin, their language, destroy their papers, etc... so as not to be expelled. it also seems to forget that what it is demanding for these foreigners is often not available to our own citizens, starting with decent housing, work and access to quality public services, especially in areas where, like mayotte, the flood of migration is creating huge economic and social problems for the inhabitants. i can understand the distress and the dreams of migrants. but we have neither the vocation nor the means to accept all the misery of the world. this report is harmful, and its effects will be perverse.
in writing. as regards the rights granted to migrants in the european union, the rule is definitely that of the always-more. the question is whether the european institutions are not outbid. this report is just one of a long litany of proposals and recommendations to the member states to grant the hundreds of thousands of people who each year enter their territory legally or illegally not only equal rights to their own nationals, but also more and more effective ones. the member states of the union are asked, for example, to remove obstacles to access to the labour market for these immigrants and to encourage them to adopt national legislation which also encourages such access. should we conclude that nationals will now have to turn a blind eye to the legitimate suffering of people fleeing their country of origin, whether for economic, political, climatic or family reasons? yes, and that is the whole point of the chosen immigration that president sarkozy is advocating unreservedly. on the contrary, we believe, and especially in times of crisis, that jobs in europe should be reserved for europeans and in france for the french. the national recovery of the european nations is conditioned by this.
in writing. with this report, the european parliament reaffirms its commitment to fundamental rights, such as the right to dignity. it is unacceptable that the conditions for the reception of migrants and asylum seekers are not exemplary within the european union itself. the report was drawn up under the chairmanship of mrs martine roure on the basis of visits to detention centres by meps between 2005 and 2008. it reveals the extent of irregularities in the immigration detention system in europe, pointing to problems of legal and medical assistance, hygiene, promiscuity, and information. the european parliament is therefore sounding the alarm today. member states must take note of this and, where appropriate, apply the existing directives as soon as possible - 'acceptance' and 'procedure' - or make progress in their implementation.
in writing. we voted for mrs muscardini's report on smes, which is a severe criticism of the european union's trade policy, even though it is written in the sweetened and technocratic language dear to this house. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of information centres for the protection of the environment and the environment, and to provide a european network of information centres for the protection of the environment. it is time for the european union to stop sacrificing its enterprises and workers on the altar of competition and the opening up of markets, which it alone is doing in the world. it is time to support smes in exporting, to defend them really against unfair competition, to protect our markets in a reasonable way. however, while remaining committed to the internationalisation of enterprises as an end in itself, the rapporteur continues to promote a system based on the absolute freedom of movement of goods, services, capital and people, a system which has led us into a profound economic, financial and social crisis, a system from which the european union must absolutely break.
in writing. the commission makes epas the alpha and omega of its development strategy. the schröder report and the european right also have a role to play. the european socialists, along with the countries concerned, do not share this approach. we think of these apes as a market for fools... there is still time to promote another logic, to make the epas real instruments of development, by supporting the reopening of negotiations on the most contentious points, as mr barroso and mrs ashton have committed themselves to, by playing the card of regionalization chosen and led by the acp themselves, by keeping our commitments on aid to trade promised in 2005 rather than continuing the "plundering" of the edf, by guaranteeing real parliamentary control of the process, with the acp parliaments in the front line, and the involvement of civil society in the south, by rejecting the "bulldozer strategy" which aims to expand negotiations on services or so-called "singapore" issues, when the acp countries are not willing to do so. this is not the 'road map' described in the schröder report. that is why i shall vote against it.
in writing. while economic partnership agreements (epas) very largely structure the eu's relations with african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries, the european parliament is sending a very bad signal by adopting this report. europe must absolutely reverse its approach to dialogue and trade with the acp countries, at the risk of being complicit in their ruin. this report validates a system based on a supposed equality between the parties; the eu is the world's leading economic power, and the acp countries are far behind. it is now urgent to adopt an asymmetrical and consensual approach, which would finally give these states a chance in the global competition. my colleagues from the socialist group and i voted against. the adoption of this report by parliament is proof that europe is governed by the right, and that must change!
in writing. there is nothing to be happy about the situation in kosovo or the role of the european union in it. eulex, the union's mission in kosovo, is in this case merely the 'armed' arm of the un charged with ensuring the establishment of a permanent kosovar government and administration, in violation of un resolution 1244, which recognises the sovereignty of serbia over that province. the good sentiments, advice and requests expressed in this assembly are unable to hide a tragic reality: the oppression of minorities, especially the serbian minority, in a territory which has now been delivered, through the fault of the international community, and particularly the european community, to corruption, organized crime, albanian mafias and perhaps even islamist terrorist groups.
in writing. every year this parliament adopts a text on trade and economic relations with china, and every year the findings it makes are worse: violation of human rights, unfair trade practices, dumping, non-compliance with china's international commitments, whether to the wto or the ilo (international labour organisation), counterfeiting, patent policy which is almost equivalent to theft... the list goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. even more frightening is the rapporteur's unwavering belief in the myth of 'democratic change through trade', of which the current situation in china is the most scathing denial. this myth serves as an alibi for all those who put the commercial interests of a few people before the respect for the values they claim to uphold, especially in order to avoid having to take the necessary decisions: the implementation of instruments of defence and trade sanctions. you may think that china must become the workshop of the world, producing cheaply products of more or less - especially less - good quality. we prefer a policy of producing in europe, with europeans, the products we consume, to regaining industrial independence in a european market that is finally protected.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what do we know and what do we see in relation to sri lanka? what evidence can we base on when all ngos except the red cross have been evacuated from the country since september? who to believe? sri lankan government or anonymous witnesses? one thing is certain. the situation is turning into a final assault, a hallali for a government determined to end by force a rebellion that has lasted too long to its liking. once again, who pays for the damage, ladies and gentlemen? all the civilians, women, children, old people, of course, caught between a rock and a hard place and suffering unbearable violence. this has to stop. it is high time that the international community really put pressure on the sri lankan government to stop this escalation of violence and death. the european union must take a very clear stand and not make tamil civilians the forgotten ones of history and the martyrs of indifference. our european parliament must not stop at this joint resolution. we must demand an immediate and unconditional ceasefire, which will be the beginning of a stronger commitment to the peaceful settlement of this conflict, with respect for human rights and cultural identities.
madam president, you will find me in a bad mood, but i think that such important reports, such important resolutions, voted by so few members - and it is not those who are here, of course, who are guilty - i think that this is regrettable, frankly, and i really wonder how much credibility we have. so i personally cannot accept that we are so few for any longer and at some point we will have to ask the question of the quorum. i know that it takes 40 to call for a quorum. i mean, we're barely over 40, so it's hard, but still, i think we're gonna have to do something. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, you are absolutely right. the quorum procedure can only be applied at the request of 40 colleagues, or by the chairwoman. so if you wish, if you feel, as our colleague mr roure has said, that this is a debate too important to be decided now, you can ask for a quorum and call off the vote if you think it is useful.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office, high representative, mr solana, commissioner ferrero-waldner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in gaza is getting a little worse every day. the population is suffering terribly. she lacks everything. the embargo imposed on gaza makes every delivery of humanitarian aid look like a combatant's journey. even when delivered, humanitarian aid is insufficient to meet the needs on the ground. hospitals can't function properly anymore. the population can no longer be supported. what is happening in gaza is a humanitarian catastrophe of great proportions. the european union already plays a major role in the region. the financial support it has given and continues to give to the palestinians is considerable. it has done a lot in advance to prevent the humanitarian disaster we are witnessing today. despite the obstacles, it continues to provide humanitarian aid and assistance to the people of the gaza strip. the european union has just today granted €41 million in aid to the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees. so this is not the time to start silencing ourselves. i think the message from the europeans must be clear. we cannot tolerate that humanitarian aid and assistance is held hostage in this conflict. it is essential that this aid can flow freely and without restriction, and that the control points are therefore open. we also warn the hamas. the incidents last month, in which hamas confiscated humanitarian aid distributed by the un agency in the region and did not return it, are outrageous, intolerable and must not happen again. all relevant actors should anticipate the reconstruction phase and actively prepare for it by assessing the damage on the ground and preparing a plan for the financial, economic and social rehabilitation of the gaza strip. this rehabilitation is essential for the stability of the region. this is the objective of the donor conference which will be held in sharm el-sheikh on 2 march. but let's be clear. no reconstruction any more can take place until a lasting ceasefire has been declared. the ceasefire and the cessation of military operations, also by israel, are the absolute precondition for restoring peace in the region. it also begins with hamas - and i say this with the greatest firmness - by permanently stopping the firing of rockets at israel from gaza. all measures must also be taken to combat the trafficking of arms and ammunition through the tunnels linking gaza to egypt. the restoration of dialogue between all components of palestinian society and the relaunch of the current negotiation process are essential. egypt, which has a special responsibility because of its border with gaza, must be actively involved in this negotiating process. all our future diplomatic efforts must take this particular role of egypt into consideration. we can only hope to find a solution to the conflict by keeping the diplomatic path open. i call on all parties concerned, including the quartet, the arab league and diplomats from the member states, to continue to engage firmly and resolutely in the negotiations.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr high representative, madam commissioner, when i listened to the children of gaza tell, in the rubble of their homes, how they were shaken by the bombs, or their parents describe the hell of those 22 days and nights which will forever mark their lives and the memory of future generations, i was not proud of europe. i thought of a number of leaders of our states, of all those who bear responsibility before history for their lack of political courage, for missed opportunities, for their lack of vision. i asked myself: to what extremes must the israeli leadership push its inhumanity towards the palestinians and its disregard for the law as the most essential values so that the main european politicians dare to lift more than their little finger and finally say "too much is too much"? those who claim to be friends of israel in order to justify impunity and unlimited complacency towards its current ruling class, may they ponder the words of the great israeli writer david grossmann, whom i quote: "at a time when israel is being won over by the nationalist bidding, we would do well to bear in mind that the latest military operation in gaza is, in short, only a further step on a road of fire, violence and hatred. a road marked by victories and defeats, but one that leads to ruin". or they may ask themselves, as noted israeli historian shlomo sand also said: "we have sown desolation. we have shown that we have no moral restraint. have we strengthened the peace camp among the palestinians?" he continues: "israel is driving the palestinians to despair". for twenty years arafat and the palestinian authority have recognized the state of israel without gaining anything in return. israel has rejected the arab league's 2002 offer, ladies and gentlemen! we're all talking about the arab league, the arab league peace project. it's been seven years! what has europe done to seize this opportunity? so i come back to shlomo sand: "israel rejected the arab league's offer in 2002 of full recognition of israel within the pre-1967 borders". the israeli historian concludes: "israel will make peace only if its policies are pressured". that raises a question, mr high representative, since you have said nothing about international law. what pressure is the union prepared to exert on israel with regard to both gaza and the west bank, including jerusalem, to remind its current and future leaders that membership of the international community in general, and the privileged partnership with the european union in particular, comes at a price, that they do not accept military occupation, war crimes or a policy that pushes europe and the arab-muslim world a little further apart every day? i would not like, as a european, to place my hopes for a change of policy in the middle east on the sole occupant of the white house. i would still like to believe in a european upsurge. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe, and even less its high representative for foreign affairs, javier solana, former secretary-general of nato, cannot play the role of mediator between israel and palestine. at most they are called upon to finance the reconstruction of the gaza strip, as they are doing today for kosovo, lebanon or afghanistan. the americans and the israelis bomb, the europeans finance the reconstruction. this is the division of labor among the allies. but it should be the burglars who pay. egypt is at the center of peace talks that are focused on an extended ceasefire with hamas. but the challenge is formidable, since the new israeli government, under pressure from the third man, liebermann, the leader of a far-right party which is democratically accepted there, is likely to find its task in these negotiations extremely complicated. indeed, netanyahu, who is being touted as the future prime minister, has always opposed a truce with hamas. another difficulty is that the palestinian authority under mahmoud abbas has become a kind of international protectorate in the west bank, whose legitimacy has been greatly diminished by the population. the last point to be taken into account is that the continuous expansion of israeli settlements since 1967 makes the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank particularly difficult. today the ball is in israel's court, but will the hawks on both sides accept this truce of god that both sides are demanding without giving themselves the means? let me add a reflection on the reintegration of france into the integrated military structure of nato, which will be discussed in the vatanen report. this reinstatement will impose on france severe obligations. we are indeed re-entering nato, even though the cold war has been over since 1990. sarkozy seems to have forgotten the fall of the berlin wall and the return of russia to the ranks of free nations. is it necessary to strengthen the logic of the blocs in the face of multipolarisation and the rise of emerging countries, including in the military sphere? in addition, france's accession to the integrated structure will oblige it to increase its contingent in afghanistan, whereas it already has 3 300 men on the ground. how will it finance this operation when its defence budget is going to fall below 2% of gdp and more than 30 regiments are going to be abolished? paradoxically, we will increase our budgetary contribution to reintegrate into nato and at the same time reduce our military presence in africa. european defence, which is of great importance to president sarkozy, will therefore be a pillar of the atlantic alliance. the treaty of lisbon and its additional protocols were sufficient to prove this. whether in the field of common foreign or security policy, the european path is a dead end that will only lead to alignment with the americans and their allies. it is this logic of erasure that we are challenging in the name of national sovereignty and independence, which is based in particular on our autonomous nuclear deterrent force.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by jacek saryusz-wolski, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the 2007 annual report on the main aspects and basic choices of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) presented to the european parliament under point 43 (section g) of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 (2008/2241 (((ini)) (a6-0019/2009),- the report by karl von wogau, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the european security strategy and the european security and defence policy (esdp) (2008/2202 ((ini)) (a6-0032/2009), and- the report by ari vatanen, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the role of nato in the eu's security architecture (2008/2197 (a6-0033/2009). if you are not interested in the outcome of our debate, ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur rightly asks you, for the sake of the dignity of our work, to please leave this chamber in silence.
rapporteur. − mr president, 70 years ago mr chamberlain came back from munich waving a piece of paper and saying ‘peace for our time’. well, we know how wrong he was, and we also know that wishful thinking is a deadly substitute for realism. today, on this issue, we have to be brutally honest. the eu has been incredibly successful in peace-making. the events of the second world war gave birth to the eu. i am very happy that mr solana is here today because finally we have this phone number for the eu. mr solana has this number, which mr kissinger asked for years ago. but what kinds of means are we – member states and politicians – giving to mr solana? that is the question. we have a financial crisis now, which did not fall on us from the sky. it was very much self-inflicted. we are talking about the toxic assets of banks and how we have to clear them. perhaps this is also the time to ask: what are the toxic assets and what are the obstacles to our peace-making, our raison d’être? we have to move on – the eu has to move on in its peace-building. the world is changing so fast around us. the biggest obstacle is that we simply do not have a vision. we are day-to-day politicians who are short-sighted. immobility is our big problem. the world is changing around us, faster than we can react. what is the result of inefficient and failing security policies? human suffering, dead bodies, mutilated people and atrocities. even if those people do not vote for us, we have to care for them because they are our brothers and sisters in the human family. on 2 april 1917, president wilson said, ‘a steadfast concert of peace can never be maintained except by a partnership of democratic nations’. president wilson was awarded a nobel prize – which he deserved much more than al gore. we in the eu do not realise what kinds of tools we have in our mosaic composition of 27 countries. that gives us a unique tool in peace-making. perhaps some people do not like the french, others do not like the germans, and perhaps some people do not like the finns, even – but i think everybody likes the finns! – but, when we are together, 27 countries, nobody can say that they hate the eu. therefore, the unique ability we have enables us to go to any crisis spot and be a doctor or a referee. but without the military capacity, without military credibility, we are like a dog whose bark is worse than its bite. we have idealism but we do not equip ourselves with the means to reach those targets. now is the time to strike while the iron is hot: il faut battre le fer tant qu’il est chaud, as the french say. now, mr obama is the new president of the united states and he values europe – he says that we are important allies. what do we have to do? we have to get our act together. already, 94% of the european population is in nato, and only 6% are outside. why do we not use it more efficiently? we owe that to the people, because it is our duty to alleviate human suffering; it is our ethical duty and it is in our long-term interest. only by following in the footsteps of our forefathers can we be faithful to the eu’s inheritance and make the inevitable inconceivable – and that is what peace-making means.
madam president, i congratulate our three rapporteurs on this rather remarkable summary of the current state of our common foreign and security policy. mr president, you know better than anyone that europe is expected to take its rightful place on the world stage today, owing to its economic and demographic strength and the wealth of its democratic and humanist values. it is clear that despite the will regularly expressed by more than two thirds of our fellow citizens, as you said, some progress has been made, i grant you, in the last ten years, but it is also clear that this europe still does not exist. if a recent example were needed, its erasure in the solution of the new middle east drama would be there to demonstrate it. there was, and always has been, a need for a european presence in gaza to play an active role, both in helping the people to survive and in rebuilding the country, and in combating arms smuggling, which had turned the territory into a launching ground for rockets of all calibers. despite the good words spoken in sharm el sheikh and jerusalem, nothing has yet been done in this regard. i would like to repeat a question which has already been raised in connection with the lebanese crisis: when can we expect, mr high representative, the deployment of a european fleet in the mediterranean, such as the one you have set up to combat piracy? we have the means. will we ever have the will?
madam president, however much we may feel for the rapporteurs vatanen and von wogau, we cannot approve their reports. first, because nato, the north atlantic treaty organization, was created in 1949 to deal with the terrible threat of communism to western europe. it has played a useful, even indispensable, role. but now that terrible communist system has collapsed, the warsaw pact has been dissolved. and nato is constantly expanding. its activities extend beyond its geographical scope. afghanistan, as far as i know, does not border the north atlantic. nor is kosovo, where we helped ethnically cleanse the serbs in an unjust war that solved nothing. nato is therefore in breach of the un charter. my dear colleagues, you are completely inconsistent. you claim to create a strong and independent europe and you absorb european defence into an american-dominated command. how could russia and other nations not see this as an aggressive attitude? nato enslaves us to the policies of the united states of america, whose friends we are, but whose vassals we cannot be, much less its servants. we have to finish this, we have to get out of this. nato has had its day!
my dear colleagues, so far the speakers have kept their time. we're really running out of time. i would therefore ask you to please keep your time.
madam president, i would like to take the example of georgia to show you how far we are still from the ambition we have in the cfsp, despite the efforts of our high representative and commissioner ferrero waldner. so, of course, mr. solana, you're asking for more capacity, more help. i would like to ask you the following question: is the european union currently able to meet its commitments, particularly with regard to the ceasefire agreement we have proposed with russia? of course - i heard, madam commissioner - we know how much the european union was present and how quickly it intervened, but today we must also know that the georgians are facing the russian army, based on the territories of abkhazia and south ossetia. and i do not in any way question the remarkable work of the civilian observation mission on the ground. but what can our observers do to protect civilians from the daily violence? not much, except testify to it. and the ambition of the cfsp, in this case georgia, will be measured by the courage to finally send peacekeepers to stabilize this region which we have integrated into our neighbourhood policy.
we are giving the rapporteurs a little more time, but we are now under time constraints and we cannot continue as we are.
rapporteur. − madam president, i shall just repeat what president wilson said in 1917 and what, for example, our honourable colleague mr swoboda said half an hour ago: the nation alone cannot solve problems. this house, and the eu, are testimony to that. we have to learn from our mistakes. in whatever walk of life, we must work together: there is no cherry-picking, there is no free riding in the real world. we cannot let the burden be borne by just some shoulders: we have to share it, because we are democratic nations. that is a noble cause. sometimes i have difficulty in understanding why, immediately the word ‘nato’ is mentioned, people – perhaps because of their anti-american feelings, or because they have anti-military leanings – are against it. yes, we are pacifists. who is not a pacifist? anybody of sound mind is a pacifist. who wants suffering; who wants war? but we must have the means to prevent it. we must be proactive. wars come and go if there is this kind of attitude, but we must build peace actively. i really give credit to the majority of members in this house who again proved tonight that constructive, responsible common sense will prevail; that this house is what it is meant to be: a house that looks forward, because, unless we work together, peace will become a casualty. let me make one last comment. mr platini – a maestro of football – is speaking in another hall at this very moment. i was in france when the massacre in rwanda took place – and this is not directed against france, but is a comment on how the media report information – and the fact that mr zidane, the football star, had a wart on his knee literally drew more attention than the massacre in rwanda. no, we cannot be silent: we must be proactive; otherwise we condone these kinds of events in the world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 february 2009. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the agenda calls for the report by pasqualina napoletano, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the barcelona process: union for the mediterranean (2008/2231 (ini)) (a6-0502/2008).
mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, i also wanted to thank mrs napoletano because when we first discussed the union for the mediterranean, i was rather sceptical, and although i still am, i now believe that there is hope. the challenges are absolutely enormous, enormous. do we have the means to cope with it? we know we don't have them. the objectives are noble: environment, energy, combating desertification, immigration and so on. but we should not be drawn into what might be called a "missing list" that would leave only disappointed people on the other side of the mediterranean. but if i may, commissioner, i would like to speak about a particular country which is not on the edge of the mediterranean but has been integrated, which is an acp country and which is also a member of the union for the mediterranean. this country, mauritania, is currently going through a very serious political crisis and i think that as a partner of the union for the mediterranean, as an acp country and in the name of the neighbourhood policy, this country deserves our support to help it out of this crisis. i believe that is what both sides in the conflict are asking us to do and that it is our responsibility to engage in order to help them out of this major political crisis.
mr president, i should first like to congratulate my colleague, mr konrad szymański, on his balanced report on the revision of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. we should remember that the primary objective of this report is to avoid the emergence of new dividing lines, or worse, fractures, between the enlarged european union and its close geographical neighbours, but also to strengthen the stability and security of the whole area thus considered. the desire to promote peace is a desire that has been repeated many times, but which often finds obstacles in the way of the reality of hatred and intolerance. the proper conduct of this policy therefore determines, in part, the international european geopolitical order. how can this european neighbourhood and partnership instrument be effectively reviewed? one word sums up the essence of ambition. the dialogue with civil society and local authorities should be more ambitious, so as to involve them more closely in the design and monitoring of the implementation of this instrument. more ambition in aid, with a view to strengthening administrative, local and regional capacities in neighbouring countries and also to promoting exchanges programmes for civil society. more ambition in the areas of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. however, these budgetary support measures must be selected to make them available only to those who can benefit from them, with a country-by-country approach, subject to political conditionality, and also to better policy evaluation. it is also urgent to clarify the relationship between the european neighbourhood policy, the policy of supervision par excellence, and regional initiatives such as the black sea synergy, the union for the mediterranean and the future eastern partnership. the reduction of policies to increasingly limited geographical areas risks losing the meaning, visibility and readability of the overall neighbourhood policy that the european union wishes to pursue. it is at this price that we will strengthen the union's coherence and synchronisation, that our dedicated budget will be deployed, with ample scope, in the desired directions, and that the european union will finally play its full role as a pole of stability.
look, you're giving me a problem with my conscience. the rules say one minute. just a minute.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank you for your support. i think we all understand how important it is that we talk. i may not follow the order of the questions but will try to respond briefly to what you asked. ms doyle, as regards public funding, the experience of the past has shown that, in times of crisis, private financing most likely goes down. that is why public financing should not make the terrible mistake of following that pattern because that would be the way which, after the crisis, would lead us to a completely improper situation. that is why public financing has to act counter-cyclically and that is why, even in europe, we have had that kind of example. finland was the case at the beginning of the 1990s. i think we should do something like that and we should follow that path. on the cost of patent application, it is very striking. i think there is no simple answer. ‘better’ would certainly be an answer which would be more horizontal than anything which we could do. last year we tried to do our best by proposing to clarify this patent picture in relations between private and public institutions, but certainly that is not the answer to the depth of the problem which we are facing in patent application. now i turn to the proposal about the questions about the financing from the seventh framework programme. what we have financed until now is the preparatory phase of the projects which are released. it is not intended that we finance institutionally the infrastructure. this will be done by the member states and also member states will decide, for example, where this will be located. but when this is finished we will certainly, as for any other infrastructure, finance the grants. that is really the only way ahead. i can remind you that, when we discussed the issue of the budget of the research infrastructure, this was the budget which in percentage points was really mostly cut for the seventh framework programme. i am, however, quite optimistic. we are well ahead, and i think that legislation is bringing good solutions. concerning vat, i would like to be precise. we do not propose vat exemption in the legislation. we believe that if more countries are joining in efforts to build a common infrastructure, say between germany and slovenia or the united kingdom or anywhere, then at the end of the day none of the countries will agree to pay vat in that country. that is the case also today – but what exactly is the case today? today the countries are individually negotiating with the host country of that kind of exemption. what we are trying to do, via that legislation, is to guarantee the status of an international organisation which would as a consequence, due to the vat legislation which exists today, guarantee vat exemption. that would, in essence, be the end of story anyway, but time was mentioned. time is the crucial question here, so we are talking about whether we can speed up and simplify how we are building the research infrastructure together. unfortunately, today’s situation in research infrastructure is so complex that we are losing time and thus money also. in essence, that is the story. i have forgotten cohesion. the answer is yes. to finish, that is exactly the point which we have to underline. we need infrastructure. we need it as soon as possible. this is the step to speed up the whole process. i thank you for understanding that and i thank you for your support in that context.
before i turn to our rapporteur, i would like to make one point clear to mrs avril doyle. we did some technical research. you received a communication from the deputy secretary-general on 8 january 2008, a little over a year ago, concerning a decision of the conference of presidents of 27 october 2007. in point 3 (b) it is clearly stated that the time for 'catch the eye' is a maximum of five minutes, and is limited to a maximum of one minute per speaker. here's the rule, but you were so delightful to listen to that we listened to you with great pleasure. we now come to our rapporteur, mrs riera madurell.
we note that. perhaps our evening debates should be more lively, more heartfelt, to warm the atmosphere. but it's true that the room is big. the debate on this fundamental point, which will do much to advance european research, is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 february 2009. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by glenys kinnock, on behalf of the committee on development, on a place for children in eu external action (2008/2203 (ini)) (a6-0039/2009).
member of the commission. − mr president, it is a pleasure to be here today to talk about children and also about the report you will adopt shortly. let me talk for a few minutes about how we got to where we are today and what will come in the future and about child participation, which is most likely our biggest challenge regarding children. today is an important step in a long process that started several years ago internally in the commission. we recognise that the eu needs a strategy on children. we need a strategy on how we, the european union, will implement the commitments. we and the rest of the world have signed up to the un convention on the rights of the child. the first step was the commission communication ‘towards an eu strategy on the rights of the child’ in 2006. this was followed in 2008 by the communication package on children in external actions, which outlined a comprehensive approach to children by the eu using all available instruments in external cooperation. let me digress for a moment, since i am convinced that some of you will be asking the question: what about the eu strategy on the rights of the child, which was announced in the above-mentioned communication? i can confirm that the commission is working on such a strategy, which will be presented under the next commission. during the slovenian presidency in may 2008, the council adopted conclusions on the promotion and protection of the rights of the child in the european union’s external action – the development of humanitarian dimensions. the committee on development then started drafting a report and we are now at the end of this process and tomorrow you will be voting on this excellent report. in addition, the eu’s policy on children is based on the two eu guidelines – the guidelines on children in armed conflicts and the guidelines on the rights of the child – both being implemented in a number of selected priority and pilot countries. the commission welcomes the report – which is an excellent complement to our communication – the council conclusions and the guidelines. we will surely use it in our work on children. let me focus my last comments on what is probably our biggest challenge today: child participation. how do we ensure that we involve children in decisions that concern them? how do we ensure that children have access to pertinent information? how do we ensure equal access for children to express their views? we have to recognise that, amongst everything that we all agreed to in the convention on the rights of the child, this might be the major challenge. we have to admit that we are still far from achieving anything significant in the area of child participation. in the commission we are starting to reflect on how to design and implement proper child participation that is not just tokenism. it should be relevant, meaningful and informed child participation. we have also ensured relevant funding for child participation under the thematic programme ‘investing in people’. why is this difficult for us adults? essentially, because it questions what is fundamental to us: the way we behave. what will the commission do in its external action to promote this participation? the commission will make the tools available for our delegations to consult children, but these tools will be used not only by our delegations but also by partner countries. we are also developing a tool kit, together with unicef, that should not only address the child participation but also overall child protection, legal reform, child budgeting. in addition to the tool kit, we are also recasting and strengthening our collaboration with unicef in general in order to be able to improve our support to partner countries in their efforts to ensure that children have a voice at country level. we also cooperate closely with various ngos to learn from them about possible formats, often involving children and having meaningful child participation. let me honest: it is not going to happen tomorrow. this is just the start of a long process. let me just make one comment on the report. the report underlines how the commission should pay attention to child participation, but, colleagues, you will also have to do so, and i can assure you that the commission will be happy to work with you on advancing this. we should build on the collective force of the two institutions to advance this important issue. let me once again express the commission’s appreciation of the report and underline that we will do our utmost to carry out these recommendations. we are counting on the continued support of parliament in this area. in answer to ms kinnock’s question, i am happy to confirm that the position of the commission has not changed. the idea of using 2009 for consultations was launched in the commission itself and we are working to put in place the conditions for a process of consultation with children that avails itself of all existing tools. let me also underline that the commission is keen to ensure a process of consultation that fully respects the rights of the child. finally, let me thank you, ms kinnock, for a very fruitful collaboration on children and child-related issues, not only as regards this report, but also over the years. i know that i was too long, but you can never be too long when you are talking about children’s rights.
thank you very much, commissioner. indeed, your speech was very interesting on a subject that is also very important. the point is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 february 2009. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by jean louis cottigny, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the application of directive 2002/14/ec establishing a general framework for the information and consultation of workers in the european community (2008/2246 (ini)) (a6-0023/2009).
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the various fictitious rapporteurs for their open-minded work during our collaboration on this text in the committee on employment. member states should improve the implementation of the directive on information and consultation of workers, in particular in the current context of the financial crisis and its consequences in terms of restructuring, mergers and relocations of undertakings. this is the message that the committee on employment has wished to convey in this own-initiative report. there are 23 million enterprises in the european union with fewer than 250 employees. they represent 99% of enterprises and employ over 100 million people. the right of workers to information and consultation is an essential component of the social market economy. the transposition of directive 2002/14/ec has been considerably delayed in some member states. in this own-initiative report we point out that the impact of this directive is evident in countries where no general system of information and consultation of workers existed. i call for better transposition of the directive in the member states. we urge the commission to take measures as soon as possible to ensure that the directive is properly transposed by the member states and to initiate infringement proceedings against those who have not transposed it or have not transposed it correctly. the report also points out that in their transposition measures some member states have not taken account of certain young workers, women working part-time or workers employed for a short period under fixed-term contracts. we call on the member states to define precisely the term 'information' by allowing workers' representatives to examine the data provided and not to wait for the information procedure to be completed if the decisions of the undertakings have direct consequences for the workers. member states that do not have effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions are invited to introduce them. finally, in order to achieve better coordination of the various legislative instruments, we also invite the commission to examine the coordination requirements of the six directives and the regulation on information for workers, with a view to making any changes to eliminate overlaps and contradictions. because this kind of advance in workers' rights is more than beneficial, the union has a duty to ensure that the states transpose the obligations of the directive correctly and completely. it is essential that all european workers know that europe supports them in their involvement in the life of their company, in their daily lives as workers, and above all in the present times.
member of the commission. − mr president, i take due note of mr cottigny’s support on what is an important directive which consolidates at european level a fundamental social right of employees. the commission attaches great importance to informing and consulting employees at both national and transnational level particularly in the current difficult context of the financial crisis. we proposed the recasting of the directive on european work councils. this has been successfully completed. we are continuing our work on the anticipation and socially responsible management of restructuring and the questions arising at european level from the negotiation of transnational agreements. as explained in its communication of 17 march 2008 the commission’s prime concern for the implementation of directive 2002/14/ec is that it should be comprehensive and effective in collaboration with the member states and the two sides of industry, which have an extremely important role to play, as you know. it should be borne in mind that the directive only establishes a general framework that can be implemented and expanded by the two sides of industry, particularly at company level. the commission conducts and supports activities for raising awareness, promoting the exchange of best practices and boosting the capacities of all the parties involved by means of seminars, training courses, studies and financial aid for projects particularly under a specific budget line. the commission also monitors the correct application of the directive in its capacity as guardian of the treaties: for example, if complaints are made by trade union organisations. so far, however, the commission has received very few complaints concerning the implementation of this directive.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 february 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by patrizia toia, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the social economy (2008/2250 (ini)) (a6-0015/2009).
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes parliament’s initiative to formulate an own-initiative opinion on the social economy. especially in the context of the present financial and economic crisis, this important sector deserves to be promoted more. social economy enterprises have a unique way of doing business since they combine economic performance mutually between members, and often also the achievement of social and societal objectives, as a business purpose. thus, they are well placed to contribute to community policies and objectives, particularly in the field of employment, social cohesion, regional and rural development, environmental protection, consumer protection and social security. social economy enterprises are an integral part of the commission’s enterprise policy. since in the majority they are micro-, small- or medium-sized enterprises, they already benefit from the small business act and all actions targeting small enterprises. with regard to the social economy, our objective is to create a legal and administrative environment, at european level and in every member state, in which social economy enterprises of whatever form and size can thrive and meet the challenges posed by globalisation and the economic downturn. more specifically, the commission’s policy aims to guarantee that social economy enterprises can grow and prosper alongside other forms of company. to this end, the commission pays particular attention to ensuring that all other community policies in areas such as competition, accounting, company law, public procurement, health, social affairs, agriculture, fisheries, banking, insurance, public and private partnerships and regional development, do take into account the specific needs, particular goals, efforts and working style of this kind of enterprise. to conclude, the commission services are currently working on a document which will take stock of the progress made since 2004 on the promotion of cooperatives. it will also assess the situation of other social economy enterprises and propose new actions if necessary.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 february 2009. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by mrs tzampazi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on mental health (2008/2209 (ini)) (a6-0034/2009).
member of the commission. − mr president, i congratulate the european parliament and its rapporteur, ms tzampazi, on this own-initiative report on mental health. the report quite rightly underlines the great impact mental health has on general well-being, on education, on learning, and on social cohesion in the european union. the fact that parliament is adopting this report only two years after a resolution responding to the commission’s green paper on mental health signals the urgent need for more action in this field. in my view there is some reason for optimism. there is more awareness of the importance of mental health and well-being across all sectors, compared to a few years ago. this was evident from the great support for the commission’s high-level conference ‘together for mental health and well-being’ and the european pact for mental health and well-being, both of which were mentioned by the rapporteur. further positive developments include the fact that many member states have revised their mental health strategies or are setting up action plans, for example in finland and hungary. socio-economic learning has been included in school curricula. in the united kingdom, life issues are now a subject in their own right in many schools. employers are increasingly aware of the links between well-being and productivity. csr europe has even created a toolkit for well-being in the workplace. however, let us be clear, there can certainly be no reason for complacency, and much more remains to be done. there could be new risks for mental health as a result of the current financial and economic crisis. member states could be tempted to reduce budgets for mental health or to reduce their efforts to build up modern mental health systems with community-based services instead of outdated asylums. the economic downturn worsens the future prospects of young people, especially school leavers. job insecurity in the workplace, and its ensuing concerns over the stability of incomes and rising levels of unemployment, create new major threats for mental health. over the next two years the commission will organise a series of thematic conferences on the five priorities of the mental health pact. these will be joint events with council presidencies and member states. a first international conference on stigma and psychiatric care will be organised by the czech presidency on 29 may this year. the first thematic conference on mental health in youth and education will take place in stockholm on 29-30 september, in cooperation with the swedish presidency. the second thematic conference on prevention of depression and suicide will be organised with hungary in december. in the first semester of 2010, the spanish presidency will host a thematic conference on the mental health of older people. furthermore, we are in contact with member states regarding two further conferences on mental health in workplace settings and on combating stigma and social exclusion. parliament’s report includes many concrete suggestions, which constitute a valuable contribution to future debates in these conferences. the report not only highlights the relevance of mental health in the european union, but also demonstrates that there are many opportunities to act in the area of mental health at european union level. one of the suggestions in the report is to set up a structure to oversee the implementation of the european pact for mental health and well-being. i agree that there would be significant added value in periodically reviewing progress against the objectives of the pact. we will seriously consider how we can best put such an idea into practice. once again, i would like to thank parliament and its rapporteur for this very supportive report and its very important recommendations.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 february 2009. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
you'll notice that we've lowered the lighting in the room a little bit. i'm guessing it's to save energy. this is a good thing, since the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by andrás gyürk, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the follow-up to the national energy efficiency action plans: first assessment (2008/2214 (ini)) (a6-0030/2009).
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome the opportunity to address this part-session of the european parliament covering, inter alia, the subject of the commission’s assessment of the national energy efficiency action plans (neeaps), which was presented in the second strategic energy review package in november 2008 and the earlier commission communication of january 2008. a more detailed technical synthesis of the commission’s assessment of the neeaps will be presented in the commission’s neeap document this spring. i would, therefore, like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr gyürk, on his work, as well as the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) for its valuable discussions and comments. in the past few years, the commission has stated very clearly that energy efficiency is the first priority of the european union energy policy and a very important cornerstone to meeting the 2020 by 2020 targets, and national energy efficiency action plans play a central role in this respect. the directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services sets an obligation, as you know, for the member states to present these, and to show how in practice they are going to achieve their national targets for energy efficiency. the original deadline for their submission by the member states was 30 june 2007 but, as you know, many member states unfortunately were late. the last neeaps arrived at the commission in june 2008. at this stage, the commission has completed all the individual assessments and sent letters with the results of those assessments to all the member states. as a follow-up, a number of bilateral meetings took place, and a number of member states declared they would themselves like to improve their neeaps in the coming few months. as has been noted by the members of the itre committee, the first national energy efficiency action plans have proved to be a really useful exercise. indeed, many member states have, for the first time, prepared comprehensive plans of action on energy savings. many of them confirmed that they found the cross-sectoral effort needed to prepare them very useful. under the energy services directive, neeaps have only a limited role. however, the commission, in its communication of november 2008, and in other recent statements has always encouraged member states to broaden their role. the commission will prepare a new european union energy savings action plan that will strengthen and better focus european union actions, helping eu member states and eu businesses and eu citizens to save energy in a cost-effective way. in your report you urged the commission to propose a binding target for energy savings. the current energy savings objective of 20% of primary energy saving in 2020 today represents a non-binding target, as you know. however, the commission believes that, with the climate and energy package, as well as the proposals in the second strategic energy review, we can reach 20%. mr gyürk’s report also rightly indicated that financial support must be increased. financial issues relating to energy savings were recognised by the commission in the european economic recovery plan of 26 november 2008, and in other coordinated efforts which aim to help create jobs, which are often in small- and medium-sized companies, since investments in energy efficiency, and especially in buildings, are mostly related to small-scale renovation projects. in conclusion, i would like to recall that during the mandate of this commission, eu leaders have given a real commitment to promoting energy efficiency. boosting investment in energy efficiency and related new technologies offers an essential contribution to sustainable development and also to security of supply. energy efficiency has a wider impact, far beyond energy policy. it has a positive effect on the european union economy in general: increasing efficiency helps create new jobs, stimulates economic growth and improves competitiveness. as you rightly mentioned, that is exactly what we should be doing in these difficult and challenging times.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 february 2009. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by rosa miguélez ramos, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on applied research in the field of the common fisheries policy (2008/2222 (ini)) (a6-0016/2009).
member of the commission. − mr president, i appreciate being able to talk about my own area of responsibility. the commission welcomes parliament’s report on applied research relating to the common fisheries policy and would also like to thank the rapporteur, ms rosa miguélez ramos, and the committee on fisheries for their excellent work. the report comes at the right moment with the preparation of the joint call on marine and maritime research under way. it also coincides with the work programme 2010 for fp7 and the launching of the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy, which includes a chapter on research. the commission agrees in principle with the main elements of the report. we welcome the support expressed for the european strategy for marine and maritime research, where priorities are given to increasing capacity building, new infrastructure, new skills and education initiatives, developing integration across established marine and maritime research disciplines, promoting synergy between member states and the commission and new research governance. the commission acknowledges the importance of ensuring that a sufficient budget is allocated to fisheries and aquaculture research in fp7, while maintaining a good balance with the other research sectors, particularly in agriculture, forestry and biotechnology: theme 2 – kbbe, and theme 6 – environment. the annual budget for fp7 will progressively increase during the last three years of the programme and both the fisheries and aquaculture sectors will certainly benefit from this increase. the commission will pursue its effort to support research in line with the report by giving more visibility to fisheries and aquaculture research in fp7, securing a good balance between research in support of policy and more basic research, reinforcing social science in the work programmes, promoting dissemination of results and encouraging more coordination between national research programmes. finally, the commission will facilitate the integration of fisheries and aquaculture research in the broader context of its strategic research agenda, the european research area and the new european union strategy for marine and maritime research. bearing in mind the initiatives i have just described, i feel that there is now a solid base upon which we can improve our fisheries and aquaculture sectors through innovative research within the framework programme. they in turn will also benefit from improved cooperation and coordination of national research, through the different european research area initiatives and within the direction of the common fisheries policy. if i can add a sentence of my own, i can guarantee to you that it is not more complicated than it was before, simply because the same people are working on it and the cooperation which we have with my colleague, mr borg, is really excellent. i think that is how research should be done in the future. we are cooperating across sectors and this is really bringing better results, which could hardly have been the case if this were done in a more sectoral way. i honestly thank you for the great work you have done.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 february 2009.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, as you well know, this parliament is aware of the difficulty of your portfolio. it is not easy here, but when you are in the council it is worse, because then you have to deal with unanimity. so i hope that here, in responsibility, everyone will vote in a consistent way. if we think the commission's proposal is a good one, we must support it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the socialists, who are responsible, again, have refrained from tabled any amendments in plenary, because in these matters, if we want to make progress, the only thing we have to do as the european parliament is to support the commission's proposal as massively as possible if we think it is a good one, which is the case here. we have a lot of debate on vat, on subsidiarity, on the need for tax harmonization. vat is the very example where we have a useful common base. let's make it live! the renewal, on a temporary basis, of this experience of reduced vat rates, when it is aimed at and helps to strengthen labour-intensive services - which is not necessarily the case for alcohol in restaurants - has shown us that this system has proved its worth, so let us consolidate it! let us get out of the legal uncertainty and harmonize the basis on which the member states can intervene. we will then have coherent objectives, tax harmonization where possible, an incentive for labour-intensive services. who could refuse that today? an incentive to use these tax breaks to promote a more energy-conscious habitat, who could resist that? today, in view of what has happened in the economic and monetary affairs committee, in view of the debate as i see it unfolding in the council, i believe that we must very strongly - and i hope by the broadest possible majority - support the commission's proposal, because at this stage of the debate the best may become the enemy of the good, and i think that our fellow citizens would not understand that we are left in legal uncertainty. we need to consolidate this system which has proven itself. that is what our rapporteur, mrs van den burg, is proposing and that is what i hope this parliament will vote massively on shortly so that the commissioner can convey this strong message to the council and get the final decision which will make it possible to consolidate this system.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, since this is one of our last opportunities to do so, i should like to begin by thanking mr kovács for the often disappointing efforts he has made over the years in a situation where taxation is governed by unanimity and therefore by vetoes from the various states. his task was very difficult and his performance may have seemed weak. i hope with all my heart that this directive will be the crowning achievement of the european community, with the strong support of parliament. the very proof of the excellence of his work is that when we wanted to do better in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, we were unable to do so. some fired in one direction, others in another. everyone was convinced that we could do better. we thought we could get better amendments through, and then when we voted on the whole thing, we found that nothing had passed. finally, we agreed among the group coordinators that mr kovács had probably found the right balance. so we greens, and the two groups that have just spoken, will not table amendments. you've found the right balance, and it's a smart balance. a number of countries are now reducing their vat in the face of the crisis. i think deep down that's a mistake. the states need financial resources and this is not the time to increase deficits on that side, even if we increase them to activate the economy on the expenditure side. another reason is that the attempt to lower prices by manipulating vat results in real rates being strongly positive even though the central bank is trying to lower them. you propose another strategy, and you are right, namely to use vat to make targeted cuts or targeted changes in relative prices. and you choose right, based on two criteria. first, subsidiarity, which means that you target products that do not circulate, local services, construction, and you target a second criterion, high labour intensity. we would like you, as environmentalists, to explicitly target the green revolution, the branches that are needed to get out of the current crisis, that of the industrial, liberal and productivist model that has dominated the world for more than 30 years. we would like you to extend the reduced vat rate to all products linked to the kyoto agreement. in the concrete reality, if you combine the premises and the high labour intensity, you see that you put the whole building, the whole insulation, the whole production of buildings with positive energy efficiency within your directive and, for us, that is more than enough. i would say at the outset that we will of course not vote for mrs lulling's argument. perseverance is evil, but i think that motto applies to her. we could also talk about mandeville, private vices and public virtues. we will not encourage private vices by public vices and we will defend countries that try to limit alcohol consumption.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that we are finally addressing in this house the question of extending the scope of the reduced vat rate in the member states to a whole range of goods and services. the text presented by the european commission on 28 january 2009 proposes to apply reduced vat rates to several categories of activity, including catering. this is a measure i have wanted and called for for several years. after years of stagnation, i hope that the member states will finally agree on this measure. the european commission's proposal follows germany's declaration of 20 january last that it no longer opposed the introduction of a reduced rate in this sector. this simultaneity gives hope for important changes. in these times of crisis, i think that such a measure, if it were to be implemented, would increase the salaries of employees in this sector, and would give the restaurant owners the opportunity to recruit more workers. the text we are voting on today should send a strong signal in this direction. thank you for your attention.
in writing. tax harmonization is a fundamental guarantee for our citizens against economic disparities and social dumping in europe. i call on the council to do so. however, it is clear that derogating from the vat rate of common law may, in certain cases, take account of the economic and social specificities of each member state, to create a leverage effect on activities in services provided locally, including labour-intensive services. i am therefore pleased that this proposal for a directive allows a reduced rate of vat to be applied to certain services in the building sector and to catering services. i would also like to thank the commission for the technical adjustments which we had requested together with the members of the family child protection intergroup, concerning the application of a reduced rate of vat to basic children's products, in particular baby tongues, which represent a very important budget item for young households. the same applies to certain equipment for disabled persons; these are steps in the right direction.
in writing. at a time when europe is facing a major economic crisis, the adoption of this report will help to revitalise the services sector by asking member states to adopt a reduced vat rate of 5% on labour-intensive and locally supplied services. the same would apply to catering, home care and hairdressing. it is necessary to harmonize vat exemptions because today eleven member states enjoy derogations and apply reduced rates for catering, for example. a reduced vat will have a positive effect on employment and on combating the underground economy, while stimulating local demand. i think it is appropriate to go further and also consider a reduced rate for cultural products such as records or videos, green products such as clean cars or buildings built with high environmental quality. the reduction in vat in certain sectors will help to revive the activity of smes while promoting the establishment of a more environmentally friendly economy.
the rapporteur. - madam president, let us try to be specific. this report amends our rules of procedure, or rather clarifies them, to determine how petitions addressed to our committee on petitions are received, not received, how information is given to petitioners, etc. it was voted unanimously, minus one vote, i believe, in the committee on constitutional affairs. so i don't think this report is very controversial. however, there is an article in which we agreed to specify that when the treaty of lisbon comes into force, and if it does come into force, the authors of a petition we have before us will simply be informed in the event that a petition addressed not to parliament but to the european commission - you know, the famous petitions with a million signatures - is related to their petition. i understand that it is this article, because of the reference to a hypothetical future treaty, that is problematic. i can live with a delay to 5 march, i can even live with a speed vote that would remove that amendment. it would be very unfortunate, however, if we did not improve our rules on this point, since we have had many problems in the past. i'm in the hands of my colleagues.
rapporteur. − madam president, i apologise for taking up everyone’s time and delaying lunch but i do it only once in 10 years so maybe you will not mind. in fact i am like the member of the finnish parliament who rose to speak only once in all his years in the finnish parliament and what he said was: ‘could you close the window, please’! i would like to say a few words in relation to these three reports, which are all part of the same package, which includes the reports by mr von wogau and mr saryusz-wolski. at the moment we are looking for solutions to the financial crisis. that was self-inflicted and we are saying this crisis must not be repeated, but what about the raison d’être of the european union to prevent wars and human crises? they must not be repeated either, and they do not fall on us like the roof in the parliament building in strasbourg. they need not be repeated, but only on the condition that we work together. i remind you that peace is not the monopoly of this side of the house. peace belongs to everybody. peace-building is our common duty. it is a little bit like love. it is unconditional. we have to be idealistic in this life. we have to look far away, like when we run in a forest. you do not look at your feet when you run in a forest. you look far away and then you know where you are going and you automatically put your feet in the right place. that is what we have to do. we have to be brutally honest and remember why the eu was formed: it was to build peace. all i am saying now is that, if we are to respect the inheritance of mr monnet and our forefathers, we should belong to just one party and that party regarding peace-building is called the ‘“yes i can” party’. only then will history give us a standing ovation. and the window is open!
rapporteur. − madam president, i am sorry to take up parliament’s time. i simply wish to delete the following sentence regarding the eu operational headquarters from paragraph 29: ‘emphasises that the proposed eu operational headquarters provides the solution to this problem;’.
in writing. the social economy needs a specific legal framework more than ever, and mrs toia's report is a step in the right direction. the european commission has withdrawn two proposals to create statutes for mutual societies and european associations. at a time when the failings of the capitalist system are evident, it is abnormal to withdraw proposals which promote alternative and effective forms of economic organisation. based on the principles of mutualisation and solidarity, the social economy advocates a new conception of entrepreneurship, more humane, and breaking with the capitalist approach of the simple pursuit of profit. it has grown successfully in recent years, now accounting for 10% of enterprises and 6% of employment in the european union. the commission's attitude is regrettable, but parliament's vote is welcome. the call for the social economy to be taken into account in the formulation of european policies is positive, as is the call for the specific budget line to be reactivated.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on mental health, which aims to keep mental health as a priority in the european union's health policy. the report calls for the prevention of depression and suicide, the promotion of mental health among young people and in the education system, in the workplace and among the elderly, and the need to combat stigma and social exclusion. the text also calls on the commission to propose common indicators to improve the comparability of data and to facilitate the exchange of good practice and cooperation between member states in the promotion of mental health. finally, i welcome the fact that the report clearly distinguishes between neurodegenerative diseases, such as alzheimer's disease, and mental illnesses. alzheimer's is a very particular disease, and it should not be treated in the same way as mental illnesses.
in writing. the general ban on the employment of irregular workers to deter illegal immigration must be approved, as must the sanctions against employers who use, often to abuse, this workforce, and who are nothing but modern-day slave traders. a few hiccups, though. once again, the european union is taking advantage of a case based on a community legal basis (the first pillar) to extend its powers with regard to the harmonisation of the criminal law of the member states, with the notable exception, however, of ireland and the united kingdom, which have invoked their so-called opt-out option recognised by the treaties. i am also thinking of the situation in france following a strike in a trendy restaurant in the city of neuilly, which is dear to sarkozy: employers who are victims of an overly rigid labour market or who protect workers who are paid the legal minimum, and the opening up of wide possibilities for regularization through work, which the directive will further strengthen by the possibility of regularization only if the employer is dismissed by the underground! i fear that in practice, in countries as lax as france in this respect, all this does not limit the air appeals to illegal immigration.
in writing. this report, although interesting in several respects it is a draft of the fight against illegal immigration has huge pitfalls: lack of concrete measures for the protection of the internal and external borders of the union, lack of measures regarding the policy of deportation of illegal immigrants to their country of origin, qualification of the illegal immigrant who entered the territory of the union illegally as a simple undocumented person with rights.... in reality, the european institutions are embarrassed by this dossier. on the one hand, they demand, in the name of security and justice, a minimum of european rules aimed at repressing illegal immigration and, on the other hand, they want, in the name of their rules set up as dogmas - those of ultra-liberalism and freedom of movement - that the territory of the union be a territory of welcome and attraction for the millions of applicants for immigration. we reject this dangerous philosophy for the peoples and nations of europe. we reaffirm their right to defend themselves and to remain independent.
in writing. this is the first time i have been happy to vote for a european tax directive. for a while, therefore, until a more general revision is made which could put everything into question, the most glaring aberrations of this directive will disappear. local services such as catering, which in any case have no share in the problems of the internal market and distortion of competition, and labour-intensive services will be able to benefit from the reduced rate. the ball is now in the government's court. first of all, to the council, which has not yet taken a decision. then we will move to the national level, where we will be watching closely how and how quickly our governments deliver on their electoral promises. i am afraid, however, that this good news is due to the crisis, the fall in the purchasing power of europeans and, above all, the approach of the european elections. the real solution would have been to end tax harmonization once and for all, which is not always justified.
in writing. i voted against this report, tabled by the french christian democrat ari vatanen. the text of this report deals with the role of nato in the security architecture of the european union. this is an important question that is worth asking. i felt, however, that the answers given in this report were not the right ones and left the substance of the problem unresolved. i certainly do not want to deny the role that europe must play on the international scene by voting for it: as an economic and demographic power, it is expected to act in accordance with its values for the maintenance of peace and intercultural dialogue. the strengthening of the european union's military credibility is, however, essential. i therefore reiterate my commitment to the construction of a european security and defence policy with real autonomy. i do not think that is what the vatanen report promises. there are still stumbling blocks, particularly on the issues of denuclearisation and relations with russia. the number of amendments tabled (265) proves this: the text of the report is far from unanimous. it does not respond to the main concern: to ensure a strong defence europe, which cooperates with nato but is not subordinated to it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. you know that at the last environment council a clear qualified majority was against the commission's proposal. the commission has already made such requests in 2006, and again in 2007, and each time the council has spoken out against them. now this proposal is likely to be put forward again at the next environment council, this time against france and greece. i would simply ask parliament to make a clear statement so that this debate can finally be brought to an end. it is not the commission's job to always try to buy countries for an initiative that has been rejected by different political camps. we therefore want to have this debate with the council and the commission and a motion for a resolution to put an end to this. and before the election, so that the people who go to the polls know who stands for what. i'm not, mr ferber, are you?
madam president, as the parliament's permanent rapporteur on humanitarian action, i am returning from kivu in the democratic republic of congo and i was hoping to convey an optimistic message to you about the resolution of this situation and the return of the displaced to their homes. unfortunately, my optimism has been dashed by president el-bashir's decision on the biggest humanitarian crisis, that of darfur. president el-bashir is right to be suspended, because he is fighting against impunity and is happy to enforce international humanitarian law. but president el-bashir has just added to his case by taking a decision which is doubly ill-advised: on the one hand because it adds to the grievances already levelled against him and, on the other hand, because it alone is liable to be referred to the icc, the consequences in darfur being extraordinarily serious in humanitarian terms. so the world will not forget, but our words alone will have little effect, madam president. i liked that we changed the subject, but beyond words, let's do things.
madam president, we have just heard of the incredible six-year prison sentence for two german lawyers, mr horst mahler and mrs sylvia stolz. this terrible condemnation is motivated by the fact that the persons concerned express views which differ from the official version as to the reality and extent of the concentration camp tragedy during the second world war. whatever one may think of their opinions, it is extremely serious that in the european union today, citizens, and lawyers, are being sentenced to such sentences for discussing a historical fact. it seems that in today's so-called democratic germany there are still judges who muzzle freedom of expression with the same zeal as in the past in national socialist germany or communist germany. unfortunately, this is also the case in other member states, including france. it's unbearable, and it's very serious.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to welcome the significance of this joint debate for smes and i sincerely hope that smes will hear the strong signal that our parliament is sending them. our group welcomed with enthusiasm the draft small business act which was presented to us by the commission last june. certainly, in the 2000s, initiatives were taken towards smes. these initiatives were appreciated but insufficient. why not? because too often, in the opinion of the people concerned, wishes are left. so today we must go further and the small business act gives us the opportunity to do so, because it is part of a global, resolutely voluntary approach. i would like to remind you that the european parliament has already achieved a success, since it was as a result of the oral question we put last december that the competitiveness council unanimously adopted the action plan referred to earlier by commissioner figel. this was obviously a sign of strong political will on the part of the governments and today i would like to welcome the excellent report by edith herczog which so appropriately extends this impulse. i would also like to thank her for the quality of cooperation we have had, for the excellent work we have done in the itre committee, i must say, since today we have only two amendments tabled in plenary. this shows that we have done a good job. as for our group, through the amendments we tabled and which our rapporteur was happy to accept, we have been looking for ways of involving the member states and the community institutions more closely in order to ensure that smes really derive added value from the measures advocated. we have asked for the principle of think small first to be an integral part of any future legislation, we have insisted on the community patent and also, of course, on the means of financing so that these means will enable them to have effective and rapid access.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would of course like to join in the congratulations to our colleague, mrs herczog, on the excellent report in 90 points on the small business act. but the work of the european parliament will only be truly effective, commissioner, if it is implemented swiftly and effectively in each of our member states. you said, commissioner, at the beginning that you would draw up a global strategy based on this report, but you are aware that there is a financial crisis, an economic crisis, a climate crisis which requires us to respond quickly. so i'll take two examples. first example: i ask that the time limits for regulations in favour of companies be reduced to 30 days. this is stated in paragraph 87 for the cohesion fund. i ask the commission and the member states to make provision for all public contracts to be able to settle the enterprises within 30 days. when we know that 20% of the balance sheet is due to late payments by public authorities, we can see how much this action by the governments and the commission will help to reduce the number of unemployed, which is currently increasing day by day. the second example is the administrative formalities. in paragraph 72 we ask for a reduction of at least 25% in the current administrative formalities. i can tell you as a businessman that this is a concrete provision which we have been waiting for for years. business leaders are not meant to fill out paperwork all day long, they are meant to bring products and services to our fellow citizens. if you hear this call, commissioner, not just beyond the overall strategy you want to develop, but in terms of the concrete response of governments and the commission, then, within the framework of the current recovery plans, there will be arrangements that will bring solutions to our citizens, right now.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the draft statute for the european private company is presented by the commission as part of the small business act for europe. the initial idea was to reserve a certain share of public contracts for small firms, as is the case in the united states. such noble intentions were to be applauded. unfortunately, when we arrive at the spe, it is a completely different matter. first, the size of the firms concerned. the small enterprise has been replaced by the already much more vague concept of small and mediumsized enterprises, and finally - i quote the explanatory memorandum to the draft regulation adopted by the commission - a 'status which can also benefit larger companies and groups'. this completely changes the philosophy of the approach, and therefore, what will happen to the fake smes? in reality, subsidiaries of multinational companies have long been demanding a single status which is less restrictive than the status they now enjoy for the companies they control in various european countries. let us now consider the nature of the advantages offered to companies benefiting from spe status. it is no longer a question of facilitating access to public procurement, but - i quote again the explanatory statement of the commission's text - of improving the framework conditions for businesses in the single market. to this end, all private european companies could have their headquarters in one country and their actual activities in another. they could also move their headquarters to a member state of their choice. how can we not see these provisions as a means of enabling the companies concerned to set up, without any other constraints, the most business-friendly letterbox companies under the heavens? does the commission not state that the applicable law is that of the member state of the registered office of the spe in respect of limited liability companies? as the european trade union confederation rightly points out, there is a great risk that companies will use the spe's statutes to evade the most protective legislation for workers. it is easy to understand why the commission did not consult the trade union organisations before adopting its proposal, and instead merely consulted them online. in summary, it is clear from the draft regulation that the emphasis on small businesses is above all a matter of political dress to make a new version of the infamous principle of the country of origin presentable. it's a bolkestein with a new look. that is why my group proposes that parliament send a clear signal to the commission and the council by rejecting this draft statute for a european private company.
madam president, i would like to congratulate you on the discussion and adoption of this statute for a european private company and i would like to pay particular tribute to our rapporteur, mr lehne. i think that the text which will be adopted by our assembly will, in a way, bear his name, and that private european company will be the klaus-heiner lehne gesellschaft für die nachwelt. i would just like to make a point. mr becsey has just said that and i share his sentiment. i believe that the provisions proposed in the compromise for worker participation are contrary to the objective pursued, namely the ease and efficiency of this status for small and mediumsized enterprises. i think that it is a mistake to introduce co-management at such a level, i.e. for such small companies. i fully understand the attachment to this proven social and economic management system, but i think that in this case we are losing some of the effectiveness of the statute we are proposing and which will be adopted, by imposing on small companies co-management systems which, in my view, are only suitable for large companies. but, with that reservation, i think it is an excellent text.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate our rapporteur on his excellent report, which rightly points out the imbalances in the right to asylum in europe today and, of course, makes a number of proposals which really make it possible to move in the right direction. we must put an end to the unacceptable disparities between member states. the answer to the question of asylum differs according to the country in which the application is made. we also ask, of course, for a substantial improvement in the reception conditions for asylum seekers. this is achieved, in particular, by reaffirming the principle that asylum seekers should not be detained, in particular vulnerable persons, women, children and victims of torture. it also requires guaranteed access to a minimum of rights: housing, employment, health, education - all fundamental rights to ensure respect for dignity. finally, it is vital for us to reform the dublin ii system, which has shown, particularly through our visits to the detention centres - as you said, mr vice-president - the collateral damage of an inadequate operation, in that it places an unacceptable burden on the countries most directly affected by the migratory flows at the doorsteps of europe. the road to completing a common asylum policy is still long. we must not be under any illusions, but i hope that the commission's new proposals, to which i hope we can make an effective contribution, will enable the first stones to be laid in a building which is still very fragile today but which we hope will be solid in the future. i am very grateful to commissioner barrot for his tenacious determination in this matter, because it takes determination, a lot of determination. i hope, commissioner, that you will have time to carry out this work, because it is our duty and a moral imperative in the name of the values we defend here in the european union.
in writing. consumers are increasingly demanding on the quality, origin and safety of agricultural products. the eu has succeeded in establishing a quality labelling system that guarantees the authenticity of products that are characteristic of a territory or of traditional manufacture. the eu and its member states therefore have a duty to promote these high-quality products and to better protect them at international level. this means guaranteeing fair competition between european products and those from third countries, in particular by protecting european farmers against any product that usurps a name. products at risk of misappropriation should thus be granted international protection in the wto and any application for registration of a protected indication from third countries should be subject to more stringent controls. in order to better inform the consumer, it is important that the country of origin of the primary products and, in the case of processed products, the origin of the main ingredients and the place of last processing be indicated on the label. at the same time, the eu must uphold the principle of 'conditional market access' by recommending that the wto adopt stricter protection standards for quality products so that imported products are subject to the same safety and quality requirements as european products.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i should first like to thank mr medina ortega for raising a number of very important questions. it is true that this regulation should be better known to the judges and practitioners in each country. it should be noted that the direct execution of an investigation order under article 17 of the regulation has simplified and accelerated the taking of evidence without posing any particular problem. the central bodies provided for in that regulation have an important role to play in monitoring the courts that are required to deal with applications submitted under this regulation and in resolving problems encountered by them. the assistance provided by central bodies can be essential for small courts facing a problem of obtaining evidence in a cross-border context for the first time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not misused. the european judicial network in civil and commercial matters - you mentioned it - normally has the task of facilitating this judicial cooperation in europe as well. since its entry into force, the implementation of the gtr has been the focus of the network's work on several occasions. a practical guide on the application of the regulation was produced in 2006 and distributed to all european courts in 2007. the european judicial network in civil and commercial matters can, through its contact points, and you are right, mr medina ortega, to be more involved in the execution of requests for evidence that are more respectful of the time limits laid down in the regulation. i did. i'm trying to move on and see some perspective. it is true that the regulation lays down precise criteria as to the form and content of the application. the application must be made in a specific form and contain certain information: the name, address of the parties to the proceedings, the nature and subject matter of the case, a description of the evidence to be provided. the rules of procedure also state that the application must be submitted in one of the official languages of the member state of the court seised, or in any other language which the member state seised has indicated it will accept, but as you have just pointed out, this is not the least of the linguistic problems. a request for evidence should normally be executed promptly. if it is not possible to comply with the request within 90 days of receipt by the requested court, the requested court shall inform the requesting court accordingly, stating the reasons. in fact, the possibility of refusing to comply with the request for the taking of evidence is limited to exceptional situations, strictly limited situations. that was the rule. a study on its application was carried out in march 2007 and it was on the basis of the results of this study that the commission adopted a report in december 2007. the report was drawn up in accordance with article 23 of the regulation. what's he saying? the application of the regulation has rather improved, been simplified and has nevertheless accelerated cooperation between courts on the taking of evidence in civil and commercial matters. thus, it has already achieved two main objectives: to simplify cooperation between member states and to speed up the collection of evidence. simplification has been achieved, in particular, by the introduction of direct transmission from court to court although sometimes requests go back to the central bodies and by the introduction of standard forms. progress has also been made in speeding up the processing of requests for evidence. most of them are being carried out more quickly than before the regulation came into force - fortunately - within the 90 days provided for in the regulation. mr medina ortega, i would therefore say that we do not see the need to amend the rules of procedure. but its functioning must be improved. in its action plan adopted in november 2008, the council entrusted the commission with the implementation of the european e-justice portal. the completion of the portal, including the first phase of the portal, which will be operational this year, is obviously a top priority for us and for me. as regards the use of videoconferencing, we will also make it a priority. the european judicial network in civil and commercial matters is currently preparing a practical guide on the legal aspects of the use of videoconferencing in the taking of evidence. of course, this practical guide will be sent to the european judges and will be completed by the end of this year. it will be written in the portal, which, as i told you, will be published before the end of the year. the court of justice has not yet been equipped with videoconferencing equipment. we hope to take advantage of the new financing arrangements when the financial perspective for 2010-13 is revised. there are already funding opportunities for crossborder projects in the civil justice programme, where the use of videoconferencing is highlighted as a priority. i would say to you, mr medina ortega, that i agree with you on a major point, which i think should be a priority for stockholm: the training of judges. as far as the matter you have discussed tonight, the taking of evidence, we really need to have proper, proper training of judges. i believe that this will be one of the guidelines of the next stockholm programme. in any case, thank you for this report, which is very helpful and informative.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr doorn for his report on the application of the directive on statutory audits. i would also like to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and in particular mrs van den burg, who has contributed to the preparation of this report. in the context of the financial crisis, it is essential that all member states currently lagging behind swiftly transpose the directive in order to achieve the objectives set. the commission is continuously monitoring the state of transposition of the directive in the member states. a dashboard is regularly published on our website. the performance of the member states is expected to improve markedly in the spring of this year. such an improvement has certainly been facilitated by mr doorn's report. as your report points out, the commission has already adopted the recommendation on quality assurance and the recommendation on the limitation of the civil liability of statutory auditors. i thank parliament for its support for these two initiatives. the recommendation on limiting the civil liability of auditors is part of a strategy to reduce concentration in the audit market. in order to explore further possibilities in this direction, a consultation on control structures in audit firms and their implications for the audit market was published last november. parliament called on the commission to assess the national legislation transposing the directive and to inform it of the effects of the measures taken by the member states following the recommendation on the limitation of civil liability of controllers. we will be happy to prepare such assessments in due course, taking into account all the points raised in mr doorn's report. that is a commitment that commissioner mccreevy is making and that i am happy to pass on to you. i thank you, mr doorn, and i hope that all this will be followed by effects.
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by herbert reul; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank mr reul for the report on possible solutions to the challenges of oil supply. i would also like to thank the members of the various committees who have delivered opinions on this subject for their valuable contributions to this important debate. economic conditions have changed considerably since the commission communication of june 2008 entitled 'meeting the challenge of rising oil prices'. at that time, crude oil had reached $140 a barrel, which had a great impact on the general economy as well as on individuals in the european union. since then, the price of crude oil has dropped by well over a hundred dollars. it's under $40 a barrel. nevertheless, the commission's analysis at the time remains relevant in relation to the structural conditions of oil markets, medium and long-term global energy demand, the importance of the european union's energy and climate change policies, all of which are likely to change our patterns of production and consumption, and our behaviour. many of these issues were addressed in detail in the second strategic analysis of energy policy adopted in november 2008, which has been the subject of further debate in parliament. in addition, the adoption by the council and the european parliament in december 2008 of the energy and climate change package of proposals marked an important step towards decisive action in relation to our future energy needs, in particular by setting the target of 20% renewable energy in energy consumption by 2020. the commission welcomes most of the points raised in mr reul's report. we note the support for new investment in alternative energy sources, such as renewable energy, and the priority given to energy-efficient goods and services. these are elements highlighted by the commission in the european economic recovery plan. we of course welcome the importance attached to intensifying the dialogue with the producing countries in order to find pragmatic solutions to the problems encountered. it is clear that, in view of the growing interconnection of energy and foreign policies and the imperative of ensuring energy security, it is imperative to promote good relations with producing countries in order to make the functioning of international markets more predictable. the question of transparency on oil reserves must be addressed in this context. as regards the transparency of oil stocks, this issue was addressed in the second strategic analysis. in this connection, the possibility of publishing weekly information on commercial stocks is being considered. as regards the issues of energy saving and diversification of sources, we note the arguments put forward regarding the potential for energy savings in the building sector and look forward to the conclusion of the debate on the revision of the energy performance of buildings directive. as regards the parts on the need to diversify energy sources in the transport sector and to exploit the potential of energy-efficient vehicles, i would point out that the recovery plan includes an initiative on green cars. in conclusion, i would draw attention to the commission's commitment to further develop action on all the issues raised in relation to oil prices. these issues are part of general energy, climate and research policies. we look forward to continuing our cooperation with the european parliament in all these areas and i thank mr reul once again for providing a number of information and clarification elements which are very valuable in guiding our energy policy in the future.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by jonathan evans, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the reports on competition policy for 2006 and 2007 (2008/2243 (ini)) (a6-0011/2009).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, mr evans, first of all i would like to thank you on behalf of neelie kroes and the whole commission. we are very pleased with the unambiguous support of the european parliament in its report for a firm and sustained application of competition policy in all these areas of action: the fight against trusts and cartels, the control of merger and acquisition operations and state aid. the commission welcomes in particular the importance attached by the european parliament to the human resources needs of the directorate-general for competition in order to cope with its increasing workload in the context of the current economic crisis. in this context of recession, the commission remains determined to take decisive action against calls for protectionism. the commission welcomes the european parliament's warning against suspending the competition rules, which is a significant support in this effort. we must never forget, mr evans, that these rules of competition are also there to stimulate productivity and to enable us to recover even better after the crisis. 2009 must be part of cooperation. we count on the support of all the european institutions and our international partners to revive the economy and ensure the proper functioning of markets. mr evans, i thank you and i assure you that mrs kroes, who must have already told you, has taken note of your report with great interest.
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the agenda included a brief presentation of the report by claire gibault, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on equal treatment and access between men and women in the performing arts (2008/2182 ((ini)) (a6-0003/2009). i think it's a very interesting report. unfortunately, our colleague has informed us that she cannot be present to present her report this evening. so, according to the rules, i can't give the floor to anyone else since she hasn't delegated anyone. the brief presentation of its report will therefore not take place. however, the vote on this report will take place tomorrow as scheduled in the agenda. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
i hereby declare the 2008-2009 session of the european parliament closed.
president of the committee on fisheries. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the urgent request submitted to us this morning pursuant to rule 134 of our rules of procedure was submitted to us last week by the council and concerns, as you said, the proposal for a council regulation establishing a multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. this proposal is intended to implement the new recovery plan recommended for these regions by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas at its meeting last november. as the council recalled in its request for urgency, this regulation must enter into force before the start of the main fishing season on 15 april, which means that the mandatory consultation of parliament must be held as soon as this plenary session is over in order to pave the way for a political agreement within the council in the coming weeks. conscious of this constraint and the need for the european union to respect its international commitments and to take its part in the indispensable efforts to remedy the acute bluefin tuna crisis, the committee on fisheries of the european parliament unanimously voted in favour of this request for urgency. i therefore invite you to confirm this favourable opinion by your vote this morning.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, artistic careers are not exempt from the persistence of high inequalities between men and women. as someone with artistic responsibilities, this is a subject that is close to my heart, as discrimination against women in the performing arts is still very much alive, especially for high-level positions of responsibility. there are so few women directors in the theatre, in the dance companies or in the opera... for example, it is important to extend the use of auditioning behind a screen for the recruitment of orchestral musicians, as is already the case in companies, which use the anonymous curriculum vitae, on the one hand, because it is the only way for women to gain access to the position of orchestral soloist and, on the other hand, because it makes it possible to combat racial discrimination. in addition, the combination of work and family commitments affects women in this sector even more because of the atypical working hours associated with their profession. hence the need to create specific opening hours for nurseries, in line with the artistic professions. my dear colleagues, europe, the ancestral land of culture, cannot remain indifferent to this disorder which is afflicting it!
in writing. what is rare deserves to be highlighted. this own-initiative report on the future of the management of the union's external borders is reasonable and realistic in that it proposes, as a first step in thinking about the management of the union's borders, a critical and in-depth analysis of the functioning and effectiveness of the existing systems and their respective interactions. i do not want to be gullible, but i am optimistic that this debate will take place. to illustrate, and to help you understand the mindset of the writers of this text, here are two passages from it. the first acknowledges that "the balance to be struck between ensuring the free movement of an increasing number of people across borders and ensuring greater security for european citizens is a complex exercise". indeed, and another passage says: 'measures to strengthen border security must go hand in hand with measures to facilitate passenger flows and promote mobility in an increasingly globalised world'. such a level of schizophrenia is beyond us.
in writing. as the socialist shadow on this issue, i have from the outset expressed serious reservations about the usefulness and efficiency of the entry-exit system mentioned in the european commission's communication. the establishment of such a system, directly inspired by the us-visit system, would require enormous investments with very uncertain results in both the fight against illegal immigration and the fight against crime. this is what the transatlantic experiment shows. in addition, the proposed measures, which rely on the mass collection of personal data, in my view pose risks to the protection of privacy, an opinion shared by the european data protection supervisor. the adoption of a number of my amendments, which aimed to highlight the doubts about the necessity and proportionality of the system and to criticise the culture of mistrust which is increasingly permeating decisions on the management of the external borders, led me to support the report in plenary. at a time when the world economy is in crisis, there are probably other priorities for the european budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by giusto catania, member of the european parliament for the unitary left, on the future of the common european asylum system. the text of this report deals with the situation of asylum seekers whose fate is a lottery depending on the country they arrive in, and whose conditions of detention are sometimes on the verge of being unbearable. this is a situation which particularly affects the border countries but which requires consideration at european level. the fundamental rights of asylum seekers are at stake. the ability of some countries to cope with these migratory pressures, too. this is a shared responsibility. the report has the merit of providing a clear assessment of the situation and of clarifying the challenges facing the european union in this debate. i am therefore voting along with the french socialists to denounce a situation which is no longer acceptable and which europe, as a democratic institution and protector of human rights, must remedy.
in writing. the basic idea of the catania report is that an applicant for international protection must be in good faith, whereas everyone knows that asylum is often just a pretext used by economic immigration applicants to avoid being turned away. the member states, on the other hand, are supposedly necessarily deaf to their plight, repressive and too slow in their decisions. no one has pointed out that the abuse of illegitimate procedures is detrimental to the speed with which genuine asylum applications are examined. the report's proposals are probably based on these premises, such as taking account of the wishes of the applicant for the country responsible for examining his application, the designation of this country by a european administration, the alignment of the rights of applicants with those of long-term residents, their free movement within the territory of the european union, etc. we welcome the necessary cooperation with european countries whose geographical situation puts them at the forefront of the influx of migrants and who are having difficulty coping with it. but in no case should this lead to a european policy which would impose on the states, according to the good will of the asylum seekers and a supranational administration, those whom they would be obliged to welcome on their territory.
in writing. the desire to create a common european asylum system actually has only one objective: to give the member states of the european union the legal possibility to receive as many immigration applicants as possible more easily and without constraints (unnecessary judgments that are contrary to human rights). the european territory is thus reaffirmed as a territory of welcome for all migrant populations, and full respect for the principle of non-refoulement and the obligation to provide assistance enshrined in the united nations convention on the law of the sea are emphatically recalled. therefore, and this is understandable for these pro-immigrationists, the mere fact that each member state retains its sovereignty and its own functioning in terms of asylum law inevitably allows for disparities in the acceptance of asylum applications and therefore constitutes obstacles to a widespread reception of asylum seekers. with nearly 26 million people displaced within their own countries and more than 12 million refugees worldwide, the need is not to find more reception solutions, which will always be insufficient in the face of growing and exponential demand, but on the contrary to enable and encourage all these populations to stay in their countries, to find employment and to start their families there.
in writing. the report by the communist catania favours the implementation of a european immigration policy. under the guise of defending human rights, he wants to make europe an open community, ready to welcome all the misery in the world. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive on the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents to refugees. mr catania pretends to forget that most of the illegal immigrants arriving in europe - 75,000 in 2008 just for the mediterranean front - are not political refugees but economic refugees fleeing the misery in their own countries. this misuse of the right of asylum, contrary to the geneva convention, is never mentioned in the report, and for good reason. the "white man" should be made to feel guilty by being reminded that he was a terrible colonialist and that he must now pay in every sense of the word. legends have a hard time with life. mr catania, in his desire to make asylum a normal part of immigration, is opening the way to many abuses and making scapegoats of illegal immigrants.
in writing. the report's intentions can only be approved: ensuring the quality of european food products, the competitiveness of producers, simple but complete information for consumers on the origin of products, respect for designations of origin and quality labels, a better definition of traditional or organic products... and the rapporteur rightly stresses that it is necessary to provide that imports of agricultural and food products into europe must meet the same standards as those imposed on european producers, which unfortunately is not always the case. he's right to want to implement conditional access to our markets... however, there are still some problems to be solved: unfair intra-community competition, where a member state imposes stricter standards than those laid down at community level, in particular for reasons of public health or environmental protection. that state should be able, if you please, to apply the same rules as you are asking for at the wto level. the consistency with the environmental concerns of this parliament, which should be concerned with promoting short-circuits (eating seasonal products produced locally), rather than an imperfect adaptation to the world market, is also a problem.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have approved this report which, in the form of wishes which will probably remain virtual for some time, lists the ways and means of making life easier for small businesses in the european union. a few remarks, though. the demand, albeit a low-key one, for a kind of positive discrimination against smes, i quote, 'owned by underrepresented ethnic minorities' is unnecessary, incomprehensible and totally ideological. the access of smes, and especially local smes, to public procurement, which the rapporteur now intends to promote, was hampered by the texts voted on in this house 15 years ago, despite warnings against their harmful effects. these texts in fact promoted access to public contracts for large enterprises, particularly foreign ones, which had the information and administrative and legal means to apply for these contracts, whereas local smes did not. access by smes to existing national and european aid is extraordinarily complex, due to the requirements of european laws themselves. in short, once again, we have the impression that european texts are needed to solve foreseeable problems arising from other european texts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the herczog report on the introduction of a small business act. in this context of economic and financial crisis, our smes are the first victims of banks restricting their access to credit. it is urgent to restart the engine of their growth. the launch of a european small business act will make it possible to strengthen the competitiveness of smes and finally put words into action. the european parliament has sent a strong signal to the council and the european commission to ensure the effective application of the small business act, namely the 'sme priority', so that these new measures are understood and applied by all these companies, including in particular the following actions: avoid unnecessary burdens, promote the emergence of medium-sized and innovative enterprises beyond the community definition of smes (250 employees), facilitate access of smes to financing and public procurement to enhance their growth potential. i regret, however, that this action plan is not a legally binding instrument.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, on 23 november 2005 the european commission published the proposals for the erika iii package, and i would like to pay tribute to the then commissioner for transport, jacques barrot, for the very ambitious work he has done with this new package to strengthen maritime safety in europe. the erika iii package completes a comprehensive legislative work which has been going on for ten years since the tragic sinking of the erika off the coast of brittany. it has enabled the european union to overcome serious initial shortcomings and to become today an international reference in maritime safety. after these disasters, european citizens overwhelmed by the disasters at sea were entitled to expect a firm and vigorous political response to stop irresponsible behaviour. our ambition was to create an area of responsibility in which each maritime transport operator must be held proportionately responsible for his choices, his actions and, where appropriate, his mistakes and errors. the erika iii package thus covers several stages of maritime transport, with a real complementarity of the various proposals, a global approach which has led us to consider each of our reports as part of an indivisible whole. and now, as our assembly is to vote on the outcome of a conciliation which brings this long procedure - more than three years of work - to a close, we, the rapporteurs, welcome this common approach, because it has enabled us to achieve a result which i consider very satisfactory. i thank the rapporteurs for all of them having this general interest in mind before putting our own individual interests first, which has enabled us to achieve collectively a good result that each of us could not have achieved individually. as for my report, our assembly has been satisfied with almost all the important points in it. firstly, because the inspections of ships will be carried out not only in ports but also in anchorages, as we have asked for. this is very important, because it means that ships cannot call at places where they are certain to escape inspection. secondly, we have obtained very strict procedures for the implementation of inspections. member states will be able to cooperate in scheduling inspections from one port of call to the next without this being at the expense of inspections of high risk ships. the interval between inspections of these vessels shall not exceed six months. but the most satisfactory part of our negotiations with the council is that repeated misconduct will be punished. inspections in our ports may result in temporary measures of denial of access and prohibitions of navigation in our waters. this could lead to a permanent ban, i.e. a definitive ban on entering european ports and anchorages. the waste vessels are the ones that are affected by this measure. to do this, there will be a tolerance limit, a threshold of irresponsibility that must not be crossed, because ships that are permanently banned from our ports or anchorages will be designated as floating garbage, which should have a deterrent effect. we have obtained the council's agreement on this in conciliation. the conciliation meeting on 8 december was therefore very positive. i thank the french presidency of the council and dominique bussereau, because i am convinced that it is the personal commitment and all the work done by the presidency's teams that have enabled us today to present a very satisfactory result, which i ask parliament to approve without reservation.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, we are now at the end of a legislative marathon which was mentioned here as having lasted ten years and which is being misnamed, as we were told this morning in a debate on 'erika iii'. first of all, because after the erika, there was the prestige; after the prestige, there was the tricolor; the tricolor was followed by many other maritime accidents in european waters and beyond. and above all, because, as dirk sterckx has reminded us, it is a cold legislation, the first, that is to say, a legislation free of the passions, excesses and controversies that take place after disasters such as the prestige or the erika. i think it is a credit to jacques barrot and the commission that they have proposed it, but it was also a formidable difficulty. member states are not very inclined to legislate in areas like these when nothing serious is going on. in fact, they sometimes legislate when there are too many accidents. in any case, it is indeed very important legislation, since it contains seven texts. what is his goal? to make the european maritime area - rather than the member states' - one of the safest in the world. and it's quite legitimate because it's also one of the busiest in the world and it's also, geographically, one of the most complicated in the world. we have many straits: the bosphorus, gibraltar, the calais strait - where 800 merchant ships cross every day - which are among the largest ports on the planet. we have therefore had to make this considerable effort, not unfortunately to ensure that there will be no more accidents, because life is always random, but to ensure that, on the one hand, accidents are prevented as far as possible and, on the other hand, that the causes of accidents are punished. the architecture of this package is simple: it is that of the virtuous circle, where every element of the transport chain - from the port state to the insurer, through the shipowner, the classification society and the flag state - is responsible for its actions and, somewhere, presses, that is, the bet, to clean up the conditions of transport and moralize them, and make sure to check that we have a virtuous carrier who complies with the standards. in fact, when we think about it, our model today, in its main principles and architecture, might be worth inspiring what we are trying to do in the financial field. the financial rating agencies have been as deficient as the maritime rating agencies. some states have what are called tax havens. some operators are undesirable and are subject to blacklists or bans in the maritime sector. it is therefore a very exemplary piece of legislation, which is also part of the international imo framework. i would also like to say that on the political level this is a remarkable community achievement, since the link between the commission and parliament has led to a very complicated text and legislation, to which there was very strong reluctance in the member states. i would like to thank antonio tajani and the commission. i would also like to thank the french presidency, because i think dominique bussereau realised that this could be something very important during the french presidency; and i would like to thank all my colleagues, because everyone here knows that we used subterfuge and deception to get this done. we have succeeded in imposing this maritime package only because we were united and we were so united that some colleagues have inherited, if i may say so, illegal passengers, such as my text or mr jardim fernandes' text, which the council did not want. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the reason for this success. i would have liked to elaborate on my report, but i think i have a final opportunity to speak, and this will be the occasion to do so. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recurrence of accidents and the increase in the transport of dangerous goods by sea are constantly raising the urgent question of strengthening the safety rules governing all the european union's maritime straits and the means necessary to enforce these rules. in particular, these straits and their approaches should be classified under the seveso zone procedure, since transport should not be reduced to a cost which must decrease whatever the consequences. the commission and the council, under pressure from the economic disasters caused by the financial crisis, are finally concerned with putting tax havens into question. if we do not stop at words, this can be a real breakthrough. in the same vein, how many more maritime and ecological disasters will it take for the commission, the council and our parliament to finally care about the permanent scandal of flags of convenience? but perhaps it would be wiser for the voters of europe to bring to parliament more members who are more concerned with the safety of their fellow citizens than with defending a free trade which is destructive of people and the environment?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs who have answered the important questions raised by the problems of maritime safety and have faced up to the responsibilities that were ours. we all remember the tragic sinking of the oil tanker erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, and the dramatic environmental, human and economic consequences. a new set of laws to protect europeans from maritime disasters is finally being introduced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is time to take these measures, which, it is true, are addressing the enormous freedom of manoeuvre that has been granted to ship owners for centuries. the impunity of the owners of the garbage ships is over and, to make inspections more effective, they will first be targeted at these ships. the safety of the seas and oceans is not negotiable. it is the latter, and not money, profits and unlimited trade, which must be the primary reference value. the only regret is that the implementation of all these new laws, both repressive and preventive, will take time. as a member of the european parliament for the north-west region, with its many maritime facades, it is with relief and pride that i will vote for this third maritime package.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the package we are voting on tomorrow would be nothing without the will of the european parliament, and i would like to commend the work that has been done. if the european union is creating a legal framework which, i hope, will make it possible to avoid shipwrecks like those of the erika or the prestige and finally to hold the polluters accountable, it is thanks to the persistence of the european parliament in the face of the frivolity of the council. it is not necessary to remind you of the insistence it took to put the reports of mr savary and mr fernandes on the table. it is a political victory for the european parliament, but it is also a victory for consistency and collective work. finally, thanks to this maritime security package, states will have to fulfil the obligations of the international maritime organisation, and in particular to carry out technical audits before issuing flags to a ship. another important step forward is the requirement for ships to be insured by financial guarantee certificates, which gives their charterers a real responsibility. if parliament adopts these texts tomorrow, the european union will have demonstrated that it has an effective system to combat waste ships, against wrongful charterers or owners, and it can be hoped that the environment and the health of our citizens will benefit from this. finally, i would like to commend the work being done on maritime matters by commissioner tajani, who is here, and the rapporteurs on transport law, as we have now begun the final phase of the maritime law process with the aim of covering all transport in europe. it is therefore in relation to this work, where there was a real delay in shipping, that parliament, i hope, will also complete an important aspect of shipping during this session or at any rate as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the erika in france, i was one of the members who asked the french authorities to close the valves so that the salt marshes would not be polluted. at the time of the prestige, i was, with our colleague mr sterckx, co-rapporteur, since we had joint responsibility for transport - i myself had a responsibility for the environment - and we had asked for more safety in maritime transport. i remember the battle we fought right here to get a committee of inquiry set up on the prestige. it was absolutely impressive. so i think we can all be satisfied today that many international and european rules have made progress under the maritime package and hope that this will be nothing more than a bad memory. but if i may, i would like to draw attention to... (the president withdrew the floor)
i'm the reporter. - mr president, in conclusion, i would like to say that the work done by all the members of parliament today allows us, if parliament naturally adopts this package, to be much more confident about the protection of our seas, our coasts and our citizens. the important thing now is to put in place the measures recommended for prevention and repression, which must be really effective in all our countries. we will thus have contributed to the preservation of our maritime heritage. i thank the commissioner for his determination to ensure that the european directive is implemented and not just a matter of speeches.
the rapporteur. - mr president, in this parliament, with a few exceptions, we know what it means to legislate and to add value to a commission text. i would like to endorse the comments made by paolo costa in this respect: it is not an exercise in style for parliament to welcome this, it is an exciting reality at a time when europe needs a boost. i would like to say, because i do not know whether it has been sufficiently clarified, that in this legislative package of seven plus one text, there are actually two speeds. there are five plus one which will be asked tomorrow to ratify the conciliation and the conciliation agreement, and there are two others, that of my colleague mr fernandes and mine, which are coming up for second reading because they were initially rejected by the council. as we have reached a somewhat miraculous agreement with the council, as our colleagues have been so kind as to use us as a vehicle within their own reports for the council to accept and be obliged to take a decision, we are only at second reading as regards the report by jardim fernandes and my own. we do not want them to be changed, of course, and i do not think that there is any need to do so, because no amendments have been tabled. we want them to be adopted as they are tomorrow. this will be our way of getting back into the package after having achieved a very good success with the council. i would like to say to you, commissioner, that the ball is now in the commission's court. in fact, in order to monitor the implementation of these laws, we know that in many areas it is not enough to legislate here, there must be transposition in the member states. as far as i am concerned, with regard to compulsory insurance for third party damage, i.e. major pollution and collateral damage in a maritime accident, it will be necessary to ensure that the major international conventions, in particular, are ratified, since this is an undertaking made by the member states. i also think it would be good if the commission reported to parliament on this by 2012.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, i would first like to congratulate my colleagues, mr saïd el khadraoui and mr georg jarzembowski, on the quality of their work and the excellent reports they have produced. we are at a crucial juncture in our search for ways of safeguarding our industry, while making it sustainable, and of achieving the 'three 20' objective reaffirmed by the then president of the european union, nicolas sarkozy, in our assembly last december. in this context, the european union has stated its willingness to legislate in order to take into account in the transport price other costs previously borne by european society as a whole. and this is the polluter-pays principle that parliament has always supported. that is what we voted for in the case of air transport last june, with the integration of aviation into the ets. in the maritime sector, the european commission is currently considering how best to take account of ship-generated discharges, and that is what we are proposing today with this text for road freight transport. i agree with those of my colleagues who have said that we should not restrict mobility. we must continue to encourage such mobility in the european union, as we have done for many years, and we must ensure fair competition between the different modes of transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. that would be absurd and uneconomic. what is needed is for companies to be able to choose the most advantageous, fastest and most economical mode of transport for them, and for this the price must reflect the real cost of the chosen mode of transport. by giving member states the possibility of internalising certain external costs if they so wish, this directive is a first step in that direction. this is a first step towards the real integration of external costs into each mode of transport, and it is a strong political message. it is important that we support it by voting for it tomorrow.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr saïd el khadraoui on having found a compromise, but let us not hide the fact that this text is fragile. it is suffering the external cost of the crisis, which means that there is indeed very strong pressure and concern on the part of road hauliers. in fact, when it came across the legislator's desk, there was another one, of a different nature, since the oil was at $57 a barrel. it is therefore a text that was born under difficult circumstances. but what i would like to say here, because i have heard things that surprise me, is that this is not a text that introduces a tax or a toll. it is up to each member state to decide whether to introduce a tax or a toll. it is a text which, like the two preceding ones, aims to regulate road toll conditions in the various countries so that there are no excessive distortions and that no distortions of competition or discrimination are created. i think we need to be very clear on this. it is totally subsidiary and, moreover, it is egalitarian. i would say that i welcome this for my own country, because it will make it possible to contribute to the infrastructure of a transit country like france by heavy goods which today cross it without taking a drop of petrol and without paying a penny. so i think it is a useful text.
president of the committee on fisheries. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, parliament's decision to accept the urgency requested by the council to deal with this matter was unanimous, both in the committee on fisheries last week and this morning in the plenary. we are all aware of the need for the european union to honour the commitments made in marrakesh last november by the relevant international commission, the iccat. the aim is to give practical effect to the recommendations adopted by the organisation in order to put an end to the persistent phenomenon of overfishing of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean and to deal with the serious danger which this poses to the future of the species and thus to the fisheries themselves. two of our colleagues from the committee on fisheries, mrs fraga estévez and mr romeva i rueda, were present in marrakesh and will be speaking on this subject in the context of this debate. i would like to stress the importance which our committee attaches to this matter, which involves the main aspects of the common fisheries policy: management of resources, fleet management, compliance with international, regional and bilateral agreements, technical measures and, above all, control. i shall come back to this in a moment. this is a characteristic case which, in our view, is a test of the credibility of the common fisheries policy. for this reason, it was obviously not possible to put the new recovery plan into effect without consulting the european parliament. i am therefore pleased that the commission has finally chosen the only legally and politically acceptable way of implementing the iccat recommendations, namely a proper proposal for a regulation on the basis of article 37 of the treaty. the transposition into community law of commitments made by the commission on behalf of the european union in the regional fisheries organisations is not an insignificant operation and we insist that it should always be carried out under the democratic control of our institution. i am glad that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am glad that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore thank you, commissioner, for this proposal and i urge you to show the same determination in the practical implementation of the plan, once it has been approved by the council, as you have shown in the conclusion of a satisfactory agreement at the level of the iccat.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, mr president of the commission, it is the unanimous voice of the committee on employment and social affairs that i would like to bring to your attention this morning, because we want, through this recovery plan, to see social cohesion really put to the test. it involves vocational integration; the first thing we want to achieve is to keep all employees in employment and to put the unemployed back into employment, in particular by shifting the globalisation adjustment fund towards new training courses so that the workforce is prepared to overcome the crisis. in the short term, therefore, it is necessary to maintain employment; in the medium term, better training of employees for crisis management; and, in the long term, to innovate, including in social organisations through employers' groups. europe is doomed to innovate if it is to survive in this globalisation.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, next week's european council must not be a summit like any other. it must not be a routine summit. the europeans are waiting for concrete signals, and so is my group in this parliament. this summit must be one of affirming europe's strength and determination in the face of the crisis. europe has demonstrated this strength by adopting the rules of the social market economy in the past, which limits the damage of an unprecedented crisis affecting all regions of the world at the same time. and europe has shown this strength by adopting a currency, the euro, ten years ago, which is going through its first major test, but it is holding up. but a strong europe must not be a protectionist europe. the europe that protects, by virtue of its rules, must not be a fortress europe, because the way out of the crisis will not be by withdrawing into ourselves, but by opening up and affirming who we are. europe's strength in the face of adversity, even more so than in the face of good weather, lies in acting for our fellow citizens, and for the most deprived among them, in a united manner. with the commission, with josé manuel barroso, whose package of measures inspired by the larosière report i welcome, europe is fighting to save the banking system. it is fighting and we are fighting with it not, as some would have us believe, to save the jobs of traders, but to prevent a general collapse of our whole economy and because there will be no lasting recovery without a healthy banking system. europe is fighting effectively, and i welcome the agreement reached last night on reduced vat for catering and construction, to establish real supervision of financial markets, to save jobs, to safeguard or restore confidence and to ensure a future for europeans. i have spoken of strength, i have spoken of unity, i have spoken of efficiency, but the reason for being, the motivation for all this, is solidarity. this is the europe of jean monnet and all the founding fathers. what would have been the point of making europe after the last war if it had been to give up and go 'every man for himself' 60 years later, during the worst economic crisis since 1929? our fellow citizens sometimes ask themselves what europe is for. it is up to us to show that europe is in solidarity with its 500 million citizens, many of whom are living through this crisis with anxiety, and also in solidarity with the countries of the union - i am thinking of ireland, i am thinking of hungary, i am thinking of others who are experiencing particular difficulties. i would like to ask the heads of state or government of the 27 member states, on behalf of my group, not to give in to the temptation of isolation which would be suicidal for all our countries. i ask mr vondra, mr barroso and you too, mr pöttering, who will be speaking in the european council on behalf of our parliament, to choose solidarity and innovation. i am in favour of innovation, because i am convinced that the only way out of the crisis is through new ways and through massive investment in the knowledge economy, research and development. the european union's immense potential for new environmental technologies must be exploited as soon as possible, because these eco-innovations must be integrated into all european policies, which will give a real industrial impetus to economic recovery. similarly, the regulatory barriers in the internal market which still hinder the development of these technologies must be removed as soon as possible and a real internal market for renewable energy with clear rules of the game must be established, because in a crisis, nothing will be as it is today and this 'other way' must be prepared. this is the whole point of the lisbon strategy and now the post-lisbon strategy. my group, like the centre-right in europe, is a responsible political force. we are in favour of a rules-based economy, we are in favour of a social market economy. this is why we are opposed to demagogy and populism. it obliges us to speak the truth to the europeans. i hope that the next european council will take this approach as an example. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is in this period of crisis that the value and usefulness of structures is revealed, and this crisis shows that europe based in brussels is useless. the recovery plan, pompously described as european, is in fact the sum of the financing decided by the member states. the contribution of the european budget is only a very small part of this. when we spend 200 billion euros to support the real economy and jobs, we give 2 000 to the banks, without any guarantee that they will use it to finance companies and individuals. privatization of profits, socialization of losses, that is the last word of these economic policies, whether liberal or socialist. european solidarity or support for states? the informal summit on 1 march rejected as a whole the conditionality of aid to the motor vehicle sector, in the name of the market and competition. no change in policy, no change in logic, no break with the system that led us to disaster! we are on the brink of a breakthrough and in a few days' time the heads of state and government will propose that we take a big step forward.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, if europe wants to, it can do a lot! but to do that, it must make the right diagnosis, and today it underestimates the crisis. it must use the appropriate means; but today the stimulus package is not enough. it must also provide the necessary financial means: the debate on eurobonds is currently stalled. we need to unblock it. if it is to act intelligently on the international stage, it must also set an example in the regulation and supervision of financial markets. mr barroso, you have usefully, intelligently and exceptionally launched the work of the jacques de larosière group. they're on the table now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this report was adopted unanimously, although the group was made up of very different cultures and people from very different backgrounds. so the european consensus we have been seeking for years is here. if you let the nations tear themselves apart over this result, there will be no european supervision of the financial markets.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our citizens expect a great deal from europe in these times of crisis. europe must not disappoint them. of course, realism leads us to the conclusion that europe's financial resources are limited, and that we must start thinking about how to improve them. nevertheless, europe can exist better, succeed better, with greater political will. first, of course, by catalysing the actions and efforts of the member states, but also by a coordinated approach at european level. the recovery plan is essentially a toolbox to promote restructuring. the role of the eib must be strengthened. europe must act and define a clear and innovative economic strategy. economic operators need prospects and legal stability. first of all, we must put financial services in order so that banking institutions can play their main role, which is to finance economic development. the texts currently being prepared should contribute to this: directives on the capital of banks and insurance companies, regulations on credit rating agencies. we must draw the consequences of the malfunctioning of the latter text. it is also urgent to organise european supervision of regulated financial activities. the report by the de larosière group makes useful and timely proposals which must be implemented rapidly. we must also give europe a genuine, effective and modern industrial policy. in this respect, we must reconcile the imperatives of sustainable development with the need for a quality industrial fabric that produces wealth and provides jobs. in the present crisis, we should not disrupt the sectors that are functioning by producing rules or regulations whose effectiveness is not formally established. for example, in the automotive sector, which is currently experiencing serious difficulties, it is important that the exemption regulation for automotive distribution, which expires in 2010, be extended. we must also be vigilant, for example, in the negotiation of the bilateral agreement with korea, which could be very favourable to our industry.
madam president, too little, too late, not coordinated enough, not supportive enough, not enough: that is the feeling that the european union's recovery plan and the commission's proposals at this stage really give. for a simple reason, given the initial forecasts, we are all forced to admit that the depth of the crisis was underestimated, whether it is the very dramatic fall in industrial production, for example in the united kingdom or france, the decline in international trade and german exports or the forecasts of an increase in unemployment. so i really believe that today we are very far from a response that is on par with what is being implemented, for example, by the obama administration in the united states. there is again a feeling of lack of solidarity, but also a great deal of shyness. we see the ecofin refusing in march to increase the stimulus package, or the eastern european countries being reduced to appealing to the imf, which is a lamentable failure of european solidarity. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the only real answer would be a european rescue plan to revive the automobile sector. i think that today the demand of the socialists is extremely clear: we want massive investment. for comparison, for example, since the 1929 crisis is often referred to, roosevelt's new deal was 3.5 percent of gdp for seven years. this would mean the equivalent of 400 billion euros a year for europe for several years. we therefore believe that borrowing and eurobonds should be used, that there should be massive investment in green innovation, in building insulation, in modern transport, in the energy sector, and that there should also be a plan to support the victims of restructuring and unemployment, and to indicate how we are going to help all those who are going to be faced with unemployment, for example by extending the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. regional policy is the main source of european investment in the real economy. accelerating and simplifying its financing can contribute to economic recovery, through an influx of liquidity into targeted sectors. the commission's proposal for faster and more flexible payments, in one lump sum and one single instalment, will enable projects in the fields of infrastructure, energy and the environment to be implemented without delay. national and regional authorities must exploit these opportunities and make intensive use of the structural funds to promote employment, smes, entrepreneurship and vocational training while guaranteeing their contribution, as required by the co-financing rules, so that the funds allocated can be fully used. i call on the regional councils and the prefectures of the overseas departments (dom), the managing authorities of the structural funds, to anticipate these adjustments so that their regional programmes immediately focus on the projects with the greatest potential for growth and jobs. in the face of the current malaise in the french overseas departments, as the social movement is now affecting réunion, we must explore new avenues of indigenous development and use all the levers at our disposal, including those provided by the european union.
as regards the motion for a resolution by the committee on foreign affairs on the humanitarian situation in sri lanka, i have received from mr robert evans and 40 other signatories a written objection to the inclusion of the motion for a resolution. in accordance with rule 90 (4) of the rules of procedure, the motion for a resolution is placed on the agenda for debate and vote at this part-session. i therefore propose that we put the debate on this evening on the agenda as the last item, and that the vote be taken at noon tomorrow. the deadline for tabling amendments is 3 p.m. this afternoon.
madam president, when someone proposes something, someone can always speak against it before the vote. so i just want to say that the situation in sri lanka is extremely dramatic. there are 150,000 people locked up, unable to leave. it's exactly the same as in burma. that is why we must leave sri lanka on the agenda today, to show our determination to stand in solidarity with those who are locked up.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
i will therefore pass on this request, mr cashman, and follow-up will be given.
madam president, perhaps i was wrong, but it seems to me that you voted for amendment no 27, which was in fact a technical amendment, which simply asked for paragraph 47 to be moved. on the other hand, on the original text there is a separate request for a roll-call vote. so i think we have agreed to move paragraph 47 and now we have to vote by roll call in two parts on paragraph 47 itself.
let us be clear: there was no objection to paragraph 47 being inserted after paragraph 49. we then voted on amendment no 27, which was approved. we could not therefore vote on paragraph 47 because we voted on amendment 27. so there's no problem with that.
madam president, this is a purely technical amendment. there is a mistake in the editing of our amendment. there is an indent which was worded as follows: 'intensify the elimination of barriers' and we have replaced it with 'remove unjustified barriers', but unfortunately the old paragraph, the old indent, has remained in the text of the amendment. it is therefore the third indent that we have slightly modified and there is no need to maintain the old version.
madam president, i simply wanted to remind both the pse and the ppe that there are other groups in this parliament than the two big groups!
ladies and gentlemen, i will of course reply to mr nassauer that he is quite right, but that sometimes democracy requires that we know how to go a little further than the lines. i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that i have given the floor to mr schulz under rule 141. he had every right to do so.
madam president, did he speak on behalf of the commission? because he wants to be commissioner? or did he intervene as group president?
we have adopted amendment no 3, which therefore replaces the entire resolution.
madam president, the madoff affair, of course, is an example of major international financial crime, but so is the speculation in agricultural commodities in 2007. this is why a number of lawyers, including the firm of carlos sotelo in spain, and networks of leading firms have proposed the establishment of an international financial court. the international criminal court could simply be extended to include major financial crimes because in 2007 millions of children died from agricultural speculation. there was a financial darfur. this international financial court would have the power to investigate speculation and speculators, to control tax havens, to regulate and to sanction. this is the test of sincerity for obama, for president sarkozy and for the leaders. this is the political message to be sent to public opinion, and it would be the first step in a global organization, a global phenomenon and a global treatment of a global economic crisis.
in writing. eight pieces of legislation forming part of a maritime package have just been adopted by the european parliament. we welcome this, because this package covers not only compensation for passengers but also inspections, port state control, transport accident investigations and the choice of the authority deciding where to shelter ships in distress. the ball is now in the court of the member states, because it is not enough to legislate, it is also necessary to transpose into their national legislation. the first test will be the control of flags of complacency of european countries. these flags are used to circumvent the union, tax, recruitment, security or environmental regulations of the country of real ownership. cyprus and malta are still in the top five lists of lost ships. it is regrettable that despite the efforts made since the prestige and erika oil tankers sank, the situation has not improved. substandard ships, under flag of convenience, are driving down transportation prices. the so-called rich countries, in response, are building their own tent (bis) in order to combat the loss of freight. in fact, to really eliminate these floating wrecks, the european union must tackle ultraliberalism.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by the czech mep jaromír kohlíček, on the investigation of accidents in the shipping sector. the text stresses the need for clear and binding guidelines at european level to ensure effective monitoring of accidents at sea. it responds to the concerns following the sinking of the oil tanker erika off the french coast. it is to prevent mismanagement like this from happening again that the european union has decided to impose a strict framework, which deals with all the technical aspects and all the procedures to be followed in the event of an accident: methodology of investigations, european database on maritime accidents, safety instructions, etc. i share the view that it is essential to make the european maritime area one of the most exemplary and safe in the world. this is the aim of the maritime package, also known as 'erika iii', of which this report forms part. this is a real leap forward for the maritime sector, and also for the environment, which is often a collateral victim of poor maritime behaviour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the el khadraoui report on the taxation of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures. it is important to give member states the possibility to apply 'smarter' taxes to the road transport sector to cover external costs and thus encourage greener behaviour. while air and noise pollution must be taken into account, the same cannot be said for congestion not only due to road transport; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road transport sector is not affected by the introduction of a new road tax. in addition, the sector is paying for the consequences of the economic crisis through the price of oil and the costs of delivering goods. smes in road transport will not be able to bear these additional burdens in the context of the economic crisis. road infrastructure needs to be better adapted to the increase in traffic, but above all, we need to move towards sustainable transport, with a focus on low-carbon modes of transport. as a rhône-alpes elected representative, i can testify to the inadequacy of many road sections in the rhône valley.
in writing. it is remarkable that this report admits several failures of the european union in social matters. first, there is the admission that the objectives of the lisbon strategy will not be achieved in 2010. then there are interesting figures on the increase in the unemployment rate from 7% in 2008 to 8.7% in 2009, more precisely from 7.5% to 9.2% in the euro area, which is a projected loss of 3.5 million jobs. this sad fact should make europeanists reflect on the radical reforms that must be undertaken at member state level in order to limit as far as possible the disastrous effects of the economic and financial crisis, a crisis which has its source in the ultra-liberalism and globalisation so dear to brussels. it is therefore not serious to pursue such a policy of maintaining the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. on the contrary, we must challenge this managerial logic and give the states back control of their economic and financial resources, while at the same time establishing the national and community preference and protection that will make it possible to regain the internal market and return to growth.
in writing. this own-initiative report should be seen in the context of the current legislative debate to amend the regulations for the structural funds, in particular the erdf regulation (angelakass report) and the esf regulation (jöns report). in order to obtain an agreement at first reading that would allow a rapid response to this crisis that directly affects european citizens, the adle chose not to amend the legislative proposals. for the sake of consistency, the same approach was applied to this vote. my colleagues at modem and i share the same concerns about fighting climate change; this will have to be confirmed as a priority of cohesion policy after 2013.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- oral question to the council on the state of play of the sis ii project by carlos coehlo, on behalf of the ppe-de group, martine roure, on behalf of the pse group, and henrik lax, on behalf of the alde group (o-0005/2009 - b6-0010/2009), and- oral question to the commission on the state of play of the sis ii project by carlos coehlo, on behalf of the ppe-de group, martine roure, on behalf of the pse group, and henrik lax, on behalf of the alde group (o-0006/2009 - b6-0011/2009).
author. - mr president, as we know, sis ii is a very important tool for ensuring the security of the schengen area, especially after the enlargement to ten new countries. and since the adoption of the legal bases in 2007, we have never been able to receive a detailed account of the developments or technical or political problems that impeded the system from being put into operation. it was through the press that we learned that all the tests necessary to start the central system safely had failed in december 2008. we know that the commission has tried to develop a remedial plan to solve the main problems, and we know that several member states in the council are already thinking of an alternative which would be a simple upgrade of the sis system currently in operation. the problem is not technical, it is political. this parliament was called upon to define, in codecision, the architecture of sis ii, which alone would have ensured the necessary security for the area of freedom, security and justice. we have worked on this without losing sight of the safety and protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens. here the political responsibility of the european institutions is at stake, particularly that of the council and the commission, because we believe that parliament has done its duty to the citizens. we are now, and in the future, waiting for political explanations of this radical change of course. this could of course have very serious consequences for the budget allocated to this project so far, from the reservation, if necessary, of available resources, until the future of the project and its legal basis have been properly defined.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank you for this debate. i think it shows that there is a problem which needs to be fixed. the council, under our leadership, did what it could in january. it took seriously this initiative to build the contingency or alternative plan and to push for a solution by setting the deadlines. that is what we can do. as regards the financial issues, i shall leave the floor to the commission to respond. we now have excellent cooperation between minister langer and commissioner barrot, so we believe that we will be able to deal with that. concerning the question of whether this is a political or a technical problem, we believe that this is just a technical problem. it is not a smokescreen, as has been suggested, to cover some political problems. no – the system must be operational as soon as possible. regarding the comments by mrs grabowska: yes, we remember what it means to be in the waiting room; we were discussing this a year ago. all the countries that are interested in seeing some progress here are suddenly sharing experiences similar to ours. we are committed to setting out a technical solution which will allow participation by industries of additional countries, in accordance with the particular calendar. i shall limit myself to these few concluding remarks. i said a lot at the beginning; now we will move on.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, mr vice-premier vondra, thank you for the czech presidency's commitment to this matter, which is indeed a very welcome support. i would first like to reply to mr marinescu that there is no particular problem, since the member states which have not yet joined schengen will also be able to integrate sis ii. we will have several 'slots', several periods when new non-schengen member states will be able to enter sis ii and normally there should be no particular difficulties. i am grateful to you, mrs grabowska, for all that the republic of poland is doing to protect its external borders. i have seen the quality of the work carried out by frontex with the polish teams on the ukrainian border. i would simply say, in reply to mrs roure and mrs grabowska, that this is essentially a technical problem. it is not, as mr vondra said, a political problem. the simple fact is that member states - some member states - have had ever more stringent requirements. sis ii has therefore, it must be said, found itself with increasingly sophisticated objectives. as a result, the system has become more complex and, despite the tributes you have paid to computer science, there is a set-up that is more difficult than expected. but it is true that the problem is still essentially a technical one and that it must therefore be possible to solve it. i would like to tell mr pirker that parliament will be well informed and i give my assurance of that. i myself have taken this project on the road and i think i can say that i really consider it a top priority. i also want to reassure mr brejc that we have clearly identified those responsible. we have set up this task force with the commission services, which brings the member states together closely. i think we have a safe piloting system now, but our contractor must be able to meet the requirements we have set for him. i would also like to answer the financial question raised by mr pirker and mr posselt. the total amount of the commission's budgetary commitments for the sis ii project is approximately eur 68 million. the corresponding contracts cover feasibility studies, development of the core system itself, support and quality assurance, the s-testa network, preparation for operational management in strasbourg, security, preparations for biometrics and communication. so that's it for commitments: 68 million euros. as regards payments, eur 27 million has been effectively disbursed to date for technical development: system development, eur 20 million; the commission has also decided to grant eur 7 million for the provision of a network at the cutting edge of technical progress and eur 4 500 000 for quality assurance. what must be said is that if the council, after having obtained a clear view of the reliability or unreliability of sis ii, decides to switch to a sis i+r formula, it might be thought that at that time the communication network set up for sis ii could be reused, which would preserve a very large part of the corresponding investments. our real problem, ladies and gentlemen, is to provide schengen, the schengen area of freedom, with a really effective tool. it is true that if we succeed in schengen ii, it will be the most efficient system in the world in terms of the performance it will enable us to achieve. the computer industry still needs to be on the move. what i would like to say to you after the czech presidency - and i thank mr vondra once again for the czech republic's commitment to this difficult matter - is that i really believe that we have put in place, in connection with the current presidency, all the means possible to avoid any further delays and to really enable our counterpart to meet our expectations. in any event, we shall have a fixed date for the council to take the necessary decisions, and i am once again committed to keeping your parliament properly informed.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the council and commission statements on:- the 2008 follow-up report on croatia,- the 2008 follow-up report on turkey, and- the 2008 follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
madam president, i would like to say that despite the obstinacy and blindness of the european institutions, one thing should be clear to everyone: the time has come to put an end to the process of turkey's accession to the european union. the situation of deadlock in the negotiations, mutual incomprehension and permanent ambiguity is detrimental to all, both to the european union and to turkey. we must put an end to hypocrisy and to the pretence of appearances. we must also remember one obvious fact. turkey is a country in asia minor. turkey is not a european nation, neither geographically nor culturally. turkey is militarily occupying part of a member state of the european union, since we have, to date, only ten chapters of negotiations out of thirty-five and only one chapter has been concluded. it is time for everyone to regain their freedom, their independence, their sovereignty, starting with cyprus. the people of europe do not want turkey in europe. let us respect our peoples and let us respect europe!
ma'am, i think the commissioner heard you.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure, three motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 12 march 2009.
mr posselt, the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for debate on the report by mrs neyts-uyttebroeck, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the mandate of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (2008/2290 (ini)) (a6-0112/2009).
the next item is question time (b6-0009/2009) to the council.
author. - madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time a delegation from our parliament will be travelling to istanbul to take part in the fifth world water forum, an event which will bring together all the world's water actors: un agencies, development banks, states, professional organisations, ngos and local authorities. at a time when water is becoming increasingly scarce and the acceleration of climate change is signalling the multiplication of conflicts linked to access to water, i wanted to prepare this meeting by proposing a strong text for the vote of our institution in order to define the basis for european action in this field. the situation is serious, as you know, with water scarcity spreading beyond the traditionally dry regions. access to water, whose quality is also deteriorating, is now a concern for all. the figures given by the un speak for themselves. one billion people don't have access to clean drinking water. two billion and a half million people lack access to sanitation. five thousand children under six die every day from diseases caused by lack of clean water or sanitation, or poor quality. the scandal is that the poorest are always the first to suffer. access to water, which will be one of the main challenges in the coming years, risks further delaying the achievement of the millennium development goals. the next world water forum should be an opportunity to prepare solutions together to meet this immense challenge. my first priority was to remind people that water is a common good of humanity and should be a universal right. that is the first paragraph of the proposed resolution and it is essential because the policies we implement depend on it. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. indeed, the 2006 undp report reveals a blatant injustice. the deprivation of distribution systems has often resulted in a lack of drinking water for the most disadvantaged populations. millions of people are forced to move to the informal sector, which, with the help of intermediaries, offers prices five to ten times higher. we also advocate for access to safe drinking water and sanitation for all. this means that water must remain under public control, and only the public interest can prevail. this principle should guide our policies and i am glad that the resolution refers to it. public intervention can help to solve the problem of access. fair and sustainable pricing for all would be both less costly for the poor than the informal sector and would allow for investment in the necessary infrastructure. this can only be achieved by the contribution of all. official development assistance should therefore be used in conjunction with local authority resources, bank loans, private capital and innovative partnerships. i would like to stress the importance of solidarity-based financing, as permitted, particularly in france, by the houdin law. this gives local authorities the possibility of charging one cent per cubic metre from water bills to finance international cooperation activities exclusively dedicated to water. is the commission prepared, madam president, to encourage the development of such an instrument? this must be done in accordance with the notion of the public good and that is why i welcome the fact that the text of the resolution recalls that public-private partnerships must be strictly defined and regulated. since the last world forum, the role of local authorities has been recognised by all stakeholders, including parliamentarians and ministers. the next forum - the one in istanbul - will be marked by two major developments: the signing of a consensus of local authorities on water and the organisation of two days devoted entirely to the role of local authorities. are you prepared, commissioner, to use the great pool of expertise and human and financial resources of local authorities to promote the north-south partnership? with their successful experiences and technical skills, the northern cities are eager to help their developing counterparts. finally, the un today released a report on water that makes alarming projections for the future. under the dual pressures of population growth and climate change, the water crisis is aggravated by the weakness of the political response. while water is the priority of all development policies, only 6% of international aid is devoted to it. that is why i hope that europe, our parliament and the commission will send a strong message to the people of the south, because this inequitable access to water cannot last.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that we have been saying the same things together in this house for years. i think that everything has already been said about water, about this common good of humanity, and unfortunately it has to be said again because the situation is far from improving, quite the contrary. the new un report shows that the situation is likely to deteriorate. and here, i think, despite the proposals that are being made and the policies that are being carried out by the european union, which are a first step forward, we really have to go further because without water, there is no life. we must also be aware that many people, particularly in the countries with which we trade and have dialogues, are cut off from drinking water or still do not have access to it. this is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable. i think we really need to support - and i believe the european union needs to support at the international level and in istanbul - the status of water as a common good of mankind. it is not a commodity that we can sell or that we could sell with our multinational companies. this is what we really need to defend in istanbul, and i think our colleagues will defend it.
madam president, i did not really want to comment on the report, but i would like to add a point which is particularly close to my heart and which i have raised on several occasions at the acp meetings. the question is the health situation of the tuareg population in niger. in this context, madam commissioner, i would like to raise the problem of european companies that are going to exploit natural resources in african countries, and in particular the french company areva, which is going to exploit uranium in niger, without giving any information to the local populations, so that the populations there are using, for example, radioactive materials or scrap metal to make kitchen utensils. the nigerian authorities do not allow any serious studies to be made of the radioactive situation of these populations, but we know that they are in an alarming situation. we asked at an acp meeting for an epidemiological study to be carried out on these populations. i repeat that request to the commission today.
author. - mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. madam commissioner, this european parliament, under the leadership of our rapporteur, jean-paul gauzès, has done a great deal to ensure that the legislative means for the implementation of the sepa project - the single euro payments area - can be brought to life. when we defined the accompanying legislation - the payment services directive - we had a number of questions. now we realize that those questions were probably legitimate. at the moment when this project is about to be launched, we are experiencing a number of concerns because we do not feel that the level of mobilisation, which, it seems to me, has nothing to do with the challenges of the crisis, is not quite at the appointment of what it should be. however, this project, which has mobilized a great deal of the sector's players, which has mobilized a great deal of the legislator, but which, above all, must represent a modern payment instrument adapted to the reality of what our single currency, the euro, is, in fact, at risk of not achieving the critical mass that it should have in order to be able to have its full effect. we are particularly concerned that the launch of the sepa automatic debit instrument, which is probably one of the most original aspects of the project, is encountering some difficulties. it seems to us that from the point of view of the commission's responsibility, two questions arise. the first is how the commission intends to promote and support the migration to sepa payment instruments. a timetable has been set and it is clear that it does not take all the elements of reality into account. the second question is whether the commission believes that a critical mass of payments having migrated to sepa instruments should be reached by 2010, and if not, what needs to be done to achieve this. when we adopted the legislation, we did not set a clear and binding deadline for migration to the sepa instruments. we think it's probably time to do that. we understand that there are still open questions about the compatibility of national systems with the sepa system, about what definitive migration means, but we believe it is the commission's responsibility to accompany the industry in answering the questions that are still its own. then there is the question of interchange fees, which has obviously been ignored or neglected, although it is, for many players, at the heart of the conditions for the success of the sepa project. from this point of view, it sometimes seems that the various officials, whether in the professional sector of the bank, the internal market directorate or the competition directorate, are playing a bit of a game. perhaps it is the responsibility of the legislator to challenge these actors and call them to a certain sense of responsibility. it seems to us that at this stage it is not possible to call into question a system which has a coherence without accompanying the market players in their definition of an alternative system. that is exactly the difficulty we have in this matter of the exchange committees. the competition directorate has in a number of cases stated that it considers this to be contrary to the competition rules, but then considers that it is up to the industry to find the alternative response. however, the alternative responses that exist at the level of the member states have not been tested by the competition directorate. there is therefore no indication that the competition directorate could support them, nor is there any indication that some of the solutions are appropriate solutions to the problems we are facing. for example, to imagine that the financing of an exchange system could be based on the penalty of the system, that is to say on the errors that would be committed, and therefore very often on the most vulnerable, does not seem to me to be reasonable or socially just. i therefore call on the commission to do two things: to set a deadline for migration and to help define an alternative system or a system acceptable from the point of view of the treaty rules on interchange.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said about the fate of the payment services directive for which i was parliament's rapporteur and which was adopted at first reading in 2007. the directive's main purpose is to provide the various banking players, grouped together in the epc, with the legal instruments necessary for the establishment of the sepa. european regulations have been adopted for bank cards, bank transfers and direct debits. the sepa is an integrated market for euro payment services where there will be no difference between cross-border and national payments. this will be beneficial both for the banking sector and for consumers. as you said, the commission is committed to ensuring that the migration to sepa instruments does not lead to a higher cost for the citizens of the european union in the payment system. since the adoption of this report, the migration to sepa has been proceeding very slowly, far too slowly. as of 1 october 2008, only 1,7% of transactions were carried out using the sepa transfer format. that is why we are today endorsing the european parliament's resolution calling on the commission to set a deadline for the migration to sepa products. this date shall not be later than 31 december 2012, when all payments in euro should normally be made in accordance with sepa standards. but before this migration can be effective, the delicate problem, the delicate question of multilateral interbank commissions, must be resolved. these committees should not be abolished. the payment service is a commercial activity, the cost coverage and a margin for the stakeholders are legitimate. but it is important to avoid being opaque or arbitrary. it is therefore appropriate for the commission to establish guidelines for the application of such interchange fees. for legal certainty, these guidelines should be known before the launch of the sepa system for direct debits. without this legal certainty, banks in many countries would risk not launching direct debits and there could even be a paralysis of the implementation of sepa. the european people's party and the pse have tabled very similar amendments in this respect for tomorrow's vote. of course, we want them to be taken into account.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs and its chair, mrs berès, for this debate. the commission welcomes parliament’s support for sepa, which is not only a self-regulatory initiative, but also a major public policy initiative reinforcing economic and monetary union as well as the lisbon agenda. parliament and the commission clearly share the same vision and the same goal for sepa. let me, however, recall three important points. firstly, as mentioned earlier, the commission has been very active in helping to drive forward the sepa migration process, in particular by putting pressure on public authorities to be early adopters. we will relentlessly continue our efforts as a sepa catalyst. secondly, although we share parliament’s interest for an end date for sepa, we do not believe that the time is right to carve an end date in stone. we have put a process in motion and are convinced that a lot of ground work is needed before such a commitment can be envisaged. thirdly, i can confirm that the commission will provide guidance on the compatibility of multilateral, interbank remuneration with competition rules. we know there is little time left before the entry into force of the sepa direct debit, and that our guidance should therefore be available before november 2009. however, let me insist on one point: that guidance can only be provided subject to the industry supplying us first with concrete ideas for possible business models.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, who was so kind as to accept the procedure provided for in rule 91 and put this emergency resolution on the agenda for monday, since at our last plenary session here in strasbourg we already had an emergency resolution on the sri lanka question. i would also like to thank parliament for agreeing to this debate tonight, and thank you, commissioner, for coming to this debate because i know that this is a difficult time for you. we wanted this resolution because we have to send a strong political signal to the sri lankan tamil government and representatives, as the situation is getting worse by the day. we have direct reports from tamil families and communities in europe who are constantly sending us messages and testimonies of what is happening to them and their families, trapped in the conflict between the tamil tigers and the sri lankan army. these are truly horrors that these populations are enduring. we don't know how many people are affected, but we estimate that between 150,000 and 200,000 people would request to be evacuated. what does "evacuate" mean? the ngos are asking us to evacuate them by sea, but again i would like to ask the question: where to go? where will these populations go? this afternoon, i met a girl who was born in a sri lankan refugee camp and is now in europe. if it is to force these tamil people to leave their land and go to live in refugee camps, that is not the solution either. we therefore call in this resolution for a real ceasefire. there will of course be a debate with the epp on whether there should be an immediate or temporary ceasefire. we are really asking the authorities for an immediate ceasefire so that the populations can be taken out of danger, because we know that there are populations that are being killed. we have had an example of this again today in these testimonies. we are of course asking in this resolution that the sri lankan government cooperate with ngos and with countries of good will to help resolve this conflict. we also ask that the european union help to bring in the food and medicine that is sorely needed. finally, if i may, i would like to say on behalf of my group - since it was on the initiative of the green group that we tabled this emergency resolution on monday in the afet committee - that we are asking that this matter be taken seriously by a number of our colleagues who have various interests in this country. i would remind you that some of the political groups have been asking for a long time to be able to speak about the sri lankan issue and that for internal reasons in some countries we have not been able to discuss the issue of the tamils and their situation, which has deteriorated since the 1980s. commissioner, since you are here, i think we can also ask ourselves another question. the european union is seen as a possibility in the resolution of conflicts. the time has therefore perhaps come to consider the possible establishment of a conflict resolution unit within the european union. we see in the caucasus, we see everywhere else in the world, that the european union is taken seriously by the proposals it makes. in the resolution of conflicts, we must no longer be an accompanying actor, but a true promoter of conflict resolution. if today the first steps could be taken to resolve this conflict with a strong presence of the european union and a strong message to the authorities, i believe we would also have grown in political union.
member of the commission. − mr president, as one of the tokyo co-chairs of the sri lanka peace process, the european commission and i personally have been following the developments in sri lanka very closely. we are deeply concerned about the current situation and the tragic humanitarian consequences of the conflict, as expressed in the gaerc council conclusions of 23 february and the co-chairs’ statement, issued locally on 3 february. we are particularly preoccupied about the plight of thousands of internally displaced persons – you are right – trapped by fighting in northern sri lanka. we are no longer facing a crisis but what i think is already a humanitarian catastrophe. this was confirmed to us by a wide range of independent sources, including the un and the icrc. the government’s recent announcement about opening two evacuation roads at the north and at the south of the safe zone is a positive step but we want to know how this will work in practice. we have called on the parties – the liberation tigers of tamil eelam (ltte) and the sri lankan authorities – to protect the civilian population as required under international humanitarian law and to allow the safe and voluntary movement of people away from the combat zone. both the ltte and the sri lankan army are responsible for the dramatic increase in civilian casualties during the past months. there is an immediate and urgent need to act to save lives in sri lanka, as was also confirmed by the un under-secretary, sir john holmes, who drew attention to the high casualty rate, and also the icrc. the commission is convinced that the outcome of this crisis will have lasting consequences for peace, for reconciliation and for the unity of sri lanka, and in this context strongly supports the call issued by sir john holmes to the government of sri lanka to interrupt hostilities to allow time for the civilian population to get out safely and to the ltte to let the civilians go and agree on a peaceful end to the fighting. the co-chairs have also appealed to the ltte to lay down their arms but unfortunately this call has been rejected, even ignored. we feel that the government of sri lanka has an obligation to protect all its own citizens and agree to a humanitarian ceasefire – this was also said in the council conclusions last time – to allow sick and wounded people to leave vanni and to arrange for food and medicine to be let in. this is also what india suggested last weekend. we continue to be alarmed about the human rights situation in sri lanka, against the background of reports of extrajudicial killings, abductions and serious intimidation of the media. it is very important that the government follows up the most prominent high-profile cases. there cannot be any impunity for such crimes. at the end of the day the european commission continues to be convinced, as i myself would say, that there is no military solution to sri lanka’s ethnic conflict. an inclusive dialogue is required, leading to a political settlement. lasting peace and reconciliation can only be achieved by addressing the concerns which led to the insurgency in the first place and by providing adequate space for all the communities. as a co-chair, i have always said there can only be a political solution by means of some sort of devolution package, which has been on the table, has been taken off the table and now has to come back on the table.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would like to thank mrs ferrero-waldner for her speech and for her response to the appeal of the ngos and the people who are trapped. we fear that we will find ourselves in a situation somewhat similar to that of burma after the tsunami in 2006, when the junta blocked humanitarian aid. today, therefore, we must do everything possible to ensure that humanitarian aid and our own aid reach the people who need it. but i would also like to address my colleagues from the epp and the socialist party, because i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must use our wisdom. we have tabled this motion for an urgent resolution in order to have parliament speak and take a position tomorrow. what i would not want in any case is that, for reasons of disagreement on the immediate ceasefire or the temporary ceasefire - which we understand since the debate has already taken place - this resolution should not be voted on by either side. please, i really do call you to wisdom. but i would like to say, particularly to mr tannock, that, to quote the commissioner, armed conflict never solves any problem. we know that. war never solves anything. in my opinion, calling for a temporary ceasefire is not responsible to the people concerned. it means that we will be re-activating them in a fight in the future and in what future, once the populations are evacuated. can we afford to let the populace be evacuated? the tamil people are people who own land. they want to go back to their territory. they're from sri lanka. i think we must therefore be very careful on this issue, but i am prepared to make concessions and withdraw amendments, provided that we have a common position together to send this strong political signal to the whole world.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that we have not succeeded in resolving the frozen conflicts in these eastern regions, nor have we succeeded in preventing war between russia and georgia. i believe that the eastern partnership is welcome because we must first of all stabilise these regions and avoid falling into the trap of the zone of influence because there are us, there are the united states, there is russia, there is turkey. i also think that we should ask ourselves, within the framework of this partnership, whether we should not set up a buffer zone, a neutral zone, that is to say states with a neutral status, in order to avoid the frictions we are experiencing today with the nato membership that georgia and ukraine are asking for, and we know very well what this membership means for russia. we are therefore looking forward to the eastern partnership for stability, we are looking forward to it for energy security. we must ensure that security because, as some colleagues have said, the transit of energy from the caspian sea passes through the caucasus; so we need stability in the caucasus. i also believe that our fellow citizens should get to know these regions, and i believe that the commission should invest in projects in this area. the problem arose when the new countries joined. i therefore believe that we must set up projects to make these regions known and to ensure that they have a european perspective.
mr president, it is good to have a strategic partnership, to trade, to have the volkswagen plant in puebla and to have joint parliamentary committees with chile and mexico, but for thirty years, josé salafranca says in his report, we have been talking about realism, cooperation, the climate, a little discussion about agriculture, drugs, women, water... we have to go further! we need greater ambition, both for europe and for latin america. we need to set a target, say 2025. in one generation, in the next twenty years, we must achieve an alliance of civilizations between europe and latin america, and why not integration! for this there is a framework, eurolat, the parliament that brings together europe and latin america. in this context, we need a manifesto, a resolution which will be the equivalent of 8 may 1950 for europe. let us pool our demographics, our resources, our intelligence, the old people here, the young people there, and let us create without delay a zone of free movement for students, researchers, scientists and intellectuals. that means an automatic cultural visa. malinche didn't need a visa to go to cortés to learn quechua or maya. it's the first step to getting a bloc of a billion latinos, a billion christians, in the game of nations. i know that this may not seem realistic to the realists of economics, but we must have big enough dreams to keep them in sight while we pursue them!
ladies and gentlemen, let me make one point of order. to take part in explanations of vote, you must apply to the chambers before the explanations of vote begin. i am of course very flexible and i give the floor to the members present. but we're not in the "catch the eye" procedure. this is a preliminary registration before the explanations of vote begin.
mr president, errare humanum is to persevere diabolicum. never has this latin maxim been more appropriate than in the sad saga of the accession negotiations with turkey. since 2005, you have repeatedly made the same negative statements about human rights, respect for minorities and commitments to the union, while maintaining the objective of accession. but that is not the real problem. the root of the problem lies in the desire of europeans to no longer bear the consequences of the freedom of establishment which would necessarily follow from accession. it is also because turkey is geographically, culturally, linguistically and spiritually in a different area from europe. we must therefore abandon this fiction, we must abandon this masquerade of accession and we must immediately begin discussions for the concrete, that is to say for a partnership based on our mutual and reciprocal interests. we must abandon this procedure of accession.
in writing. this text on the children of migrants who have remained in their country of origin depicts a poignant situation of children abandoned to themselves or to third parties with more or less good intentions, threatened with abuse or plagued by psychological, educational, socialization problems ... this is a clear indication that immigration is a human drama, which creates inhuman situations. all efforts must be made to remedy this, to promote family unity in familiar cultural and social environments. in short, everything must be done, and this is the only solution, to reverse the flow of immigration, to dissuade those who are tempted to leave their country from doing so, to promote development and to ensure that family reunification takes place exclusively in the countries of origin. this is what you should be doing with the money you spend on 'importing' or acclimating people to europe who are attracted by the mirages you have.
in writing. europe wants to be everywhere and take care of everything. here, with this resolution on the children of migrants who have remained in their country of origin, the european parliament is reaching the height of its madness with proposals which are not only demagogic but also designed to incriminate the member states. the phenomenon of children remaining in their country even though their parents have migrated is not sufficiently taken into account by the union, we are told. member states should implement measures to improve the situation of these children who remain in the country and to guarantee their normal development in terms of education and social life. it's like a dream. after measures to encourage family reunification in host countries and the rights of families themselves to move in, it is time for measures for children who do not migrate. that's not how we're gonna solve the immigration problem. the reasoning is wrong. it is not the children left behind in the country that need to be helped; it is the families and the entire populations of these countries that need to be helped and encouraged to stay at home.
in writing. once again, parliament, in a perfectly hypocritical manner, voted a resolution calling on the turkish government to demonstrate its political will to pursue its reforms. the truth is that you want to continue negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union at all costs, against the wishes of the european peoples, even though turkey still refuses to recognise cyprus and democratic reforms are at a standstill. you were supposed to offer turkey a privileged partnership, but to do that you would have had to admit that turkey is not a european state and therefore has no place in the european union. there was still time to respect the majority opinion of the european peoples, who are hostile to your disastrous project, and to abandon the continuation of the accession negotiations with turkey once and for all. i would like to remind you solemnly that at a time when european nations are struggling with fundamentalist networks and when in france our principle of secularism is being challenged by the rise of militant islamism on our soil, it is particularly dangerous to pursue the accession negotiations of a nation, albeit respectable, but whose government defends radical islam.
in writing. like the previous reports on turkey, mrs oomen-ruijten's report does not call into question the euro-brussels dogma: 'turkey must join the european union'. thus, sarkozy, once again betraying his election promises, opened two chapters in the accession negotiations when he was president of the european institutions. yet our peoples refuse to accept the integration of this asian and 99% muslim country, since the genocide of the armenians and the disappearance of the other christian communities, which is ruled by an islamist party, and whose army occupies the territory of the republic of cyprus, a member of the european union. they also remember that for centuries the turks were the main threat to europe. it was not until the 19th century that the greeks, romanians, bulgarians, and serbs broke free from ottoman rule. the eurocrats' determination to bring turkey into europe, comparable to their determination to impose the treaty of lisbon, reveals the anti-democratic and anti-european character of brussels' europe. on 7 june our peoples will have the opportunity to express their will to build a new europe: a europe of free and sovereign european nations.
in writing. the good feelings displayed by the various political groups, with the notable exception of the communists (and for good reason!), is only a reflection of the politically correctness of the international show-business hippies. the tibetan cause, whose domination by the spiritually hungry european fools has poisoned the real liberation struggle, is the very example of what not to do in terms of domestic and international politics. meps want to condemn with strong politeness the chinese communist abuses while declaring themselves in favour of the autonomy of a region which is not the historical tibet. the idea of tibetan autonomy, the "save tibet" path, is a rope dangling from the nose of a powerless elite and a people murdered, both in soul and in flesh. tibet, like other oppressed nations, is an example of what happens when communist dictatorship comes to power and the weapon of immigration invasion is used to prevent any kind of backwardness, political, ethnic, cultural and spiritual. tibet has undoubtedly missed its chance to regain its sovereignty by not maintaining the armed struggle since the exile of its leader. the way forward was the fight for independence, "free tibet", not a perpetual slavery in a "autonomy" on paper.
author. - madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the green group strongly condemns the assassination of the president of guinea-bissau, joão bernardo vieira, and the chief of the general staff, general tagmé na waié, on 1 and 2 march 2009. we call for thorough investigations to be carried out and for those responsible to be prosecuted, especially as the assassins of generals mané and correia in 2000 and 2004 have still not been identified to this day. guinea-bissau, which is poor among the poor and is listed for its low life expectancy, is now facing drug trafficking. guinea-bissau is the main transit point for drugs from south america to europe, where we have the largest consumer. and we know very well that it also affects the whole subregion, since, for example, in mauritania, considerable quantities of drugs have been found, even at the airport. the european union must help this country to turn its back on this trafficking by fighting it here and there and to return to development based on its own wealth. while the recent elections were welcomed by the international community and the european union expressed its support for the process of learning and establishing democracy in guinea-bissau, the events that have just taken place in that country can only strengthen this position of aid and assistance. the military, which did not intervene in the electoral process, will also have to continue to strictly respect the constitutional order as it has committed to it. as the neighbouring countries of west africa, after years of turmoil and chaos, return to the path of democracy, respect for institutions and human rights, guinea-bissau must not fall into the trap of reprehensible practices and the european union must be present and use its influence and example to help this country to remain on the path of democracy.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say very briefly that we denounce all the horrors in darfur and that we all ask that everything be done to ensure that the associations and ngos which have a crucial role to play in these cases can continue their work and are not expelled, but i would like to ask the commissioner a question. i would like to know what you expect, what the european union expects from the african union. we heard a colleague call for armed intervention. in our resolution we ask that the commission and the council intensify their efforts to act on the government through the african union. in other countries, we delegate conflict resolution to the african union. we know the position of the african union on the al-bashir case. it's like there's two sides to every story. what would be the commission's strategy towards the african union, since we are on the african continent? do we want to delegate the work and the resolution of this conflict to the african union?
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i propose an oral amendment after paragraph 1. i read: "demands the immediate and unconditional release of all humanitarian workers from the belgian section of médecins sans frontières who were abducted yesterday from their msf-belgique office in saraf umra, 200 km west of el facher, the capital of north darfur.
madam president, i beg your pardon, but i do not understand why there is a time limit. there is no time limit... i repeat: "demand the immediate and unconditional release of all humanitarian personnel". is "immediately" what's bothering you?
madam president, i agree. i'm sorry about that. we take yesterday off. you're absolutely right.
on behalf of the pse group. i agree with what mr tannock has just said and for the same reasons we ask for paragraph 5 to be deleted.
mr president, one of our colleagues has just raised the question of intergroups with you. there are more than 20 intergroups in this parliament whose work is evident during the term of office which is coming to an end. the number of texts enriched by the work of our intergroups is countless. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. if the oppression of intergroups by denying them theatres continues, more demonstrations will occur. mr president, you have a great deal of experience, a very great deal of experience of our parliament. do not allow more or less occult subgroups to meet during the next term. we are not afraid of transparency at intergroup level, and that is why we urge you to take a clear account of the intergroup activities during this term. that will be the proof of their usefulness. mr president, please do not remain deaf to the requests of the intergroups, to all the letters that have been sent to you over the years.
the point is closed.
the agenda calls for the following joint debate on the partnership agreements: recommendation of david helmuth to the european parliament david stanton to the council celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf celf c
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this long debate which brings us together today, i would like to take a few moments, if you will allow me, to look at the way we have come so far. we remember the first statements by some members of this parliament in the face of growing concern in the acp countries, in the face of anti-pace demonstrations, in the face of the warning signals sent by ngos from the north and the south, when we asked that the priority of these agreements be development, something which would seem almost obvious today, as the commission keeps repeating it. but mr mandelson, at the time, could hardly answer us because, for him, the first thing was to stimulate trade as if the mere opening of customs barriers would bring about the miracle of development. we are being called idealists, we are being called manipulated by ngos, we are being called out for instruments of protection, regulation and intervention by the public authorities. well, it turns out that no, we weren't irresponsible. no, the governments of the acp countries have not accepted that the negotiations should continue under pressure or under threat. no, the risks of opening up trade are not imaginary, they are real and they will have concrete and immediate consequences: reduction of state budgets through loss of customs revenue, weakening of nascent industries in the agricultural sector, risks to the food security of the population. we have expressed these fears long ago, even before the hunger riots or the financial crisis. so what about the situation today? the imf, the world bank and the un all recognise that developing countries, contrary to what was originally stated, will be hit hardest by the global recession. as jacques diouf, director-general of fao, recently pointed out, will we dare to tell those whom we call our partners that we are prepared to spend billions to save the world banking system but not to save their starving populations? i want to be quite frank, commissioner, and i want to make this clear. if you do not make a firm and precise commitment on behalf of the commission to ensure that these epas are genuinely pro-development, i shall not vote for the opinions. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. we want specific commitments and i want to quote them one by one. the epas will only be satisfactory agreements if they promote regional integration, if they contribute to the development of the acp countries and to the achievement of the millennium development goals. when we ask for regional integration to be promoted, this has a concrete meaning. typically, in central africa, cameroon has been singled out, if not strongly criticized, by its neighbours for having signed this interim agreement with the union. i would remind you that five of the eight countries in the region are ldcs, that is to say countries which enjoy, of their own accord and in full compliance with the wto rules, free access to the european market for exports without any counterpart being required from them. i can only understand their concern when the commission asks them to open up to 80% of their exports to europe. so if the commissioner is committed to promoting regional integration, if she is committed to more flexibility to take account of the different levels of development of our partners, can she tell us why she does not accept the offer of 71% liberalisation proposed by central africa? the second key issue on which we are waiting for a response is the singapore issues. these cannot be imposed in the negotiations against the will of the partner countries. i would like to stress this point particularly in relation to public procurement. i will always defend transparency, but can we deprive our acp partners of a key instrument of their sovereignty by supporting their local industry and services by imposing the liberalisation of public procurement? the third point is services. in our epa discussions with cameroon, the commission has repeatedly stressed that our partners want to negotiate on services. maybe this is real. but beware of those who would use this argument to impose the liberalisation of services on all regions and all countries, and especially to justify the liberalisation of public services. commissioner, i expect your firm commitment to keep public services out of the negotiations, in all regions. we know that the loss of customs revenue will cause a decrease in the budgets of our partners. and if incomes fall, the first sectors to suffer will be sectors such as education, health or research. it would therefore be unacceptable in this context for acp governments to lose control of their public services and i call on the commissioner to give us her firm commitment on these matters. fourthly, and this has already been mentioned, food safety must be protected. this means not only providing for adequate safeguards, but also enabling our partners to support their exports in order to remain competitive on world markets. i know that there have been positive developments in this respect in the sadec region. is the commission prepared to propose similar measures in other regions? one last point. we know that the upgrading of the acp economies will require a massive financial commitment from the union both to protect the nascent industries from the negative effects of liberalisation and to develop the competitiveness of our partners' economies. and unfortunately, contrary to the repeated recommendations of our political group, it is the edf funds that will be used as the primary source of funding for the esf. we know that in the past the commission has not been very good at implementing these funds, so i stress the need to use these funds quickly and in accordance with the priorities of our partners. in conclusion, commissioner, these agreements are the image that the european union will give to the rest of the world, the image that the european union will give to the poorest countries of the planet.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, i am from martinique. i've lived and worked in the caribbean my whole life. believe me, mr president, madam commissioner, and ladies and gentlemen, i am very concerned about the economic partnership agreement between cariforum and the european union. martinique, guadeloupe and french guiana are the outermost regions of europe and as such the caribbean as a whole has not been taken into account. i believe that this agreement was negotiated with a commercial focus and that the millennium development goals were relegated to the background. and then again. the challenge for the caribbean countries will therefore be to make up for the loss of customs revenue by increasing trade volumes with the european union. in this time of global recession, this may not be easy. the facts are the facts: these agreements were negotiated primarily by the commerce dg and within this parliament itself, the committee on development seems to me to have been slightly ousted. the objectives of regional development and integration set out in the agreement are not in line with the means used to achieve them. these resources are mainly limited to trade and competitiveness. as for regional integration, there is also a mismatch between the aims pursued and the means used. i now turn more specifically to the regional integration of the outermost regions of the caribbean in their environment. the rups are at the heart of a pool of life. guyana even shares one of its main borders with suriname. the ors have a population of 35 million in 40 countries and cover an area of over 2 million square kilometres. a huge potential market. this agreement was an opportunity to offset the impact of certain so-called structural handicaps: to offset the remoteness, for example, in favour of the proximity between our islands. why did we save the negotiation of the specific interregional market between the outermost regions of the european union and cariforum? at a time when the european commission is concerned with bringing the caribbean countries out of their development lag and with this package establishing epas aimed at opening markets and regional integration, the outermost region of the caribbean is only taken into account to become part of the open market in cariforum and remains in the same logic of trade as what has been negotiated for the eu as a whole. this logic is sometimes disadvantageous. it was time to promote dialogue between cultures, cooperation, exchanges of services and the outermost regions ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to congratulate my colleague, mr glyn ford, on the quality of his report, on his sense of compromise. we have been able to work on this in papua new guinea at the joint parliamentary assembly of the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union. i have seen him working with national parliamentarians and i am happy about that. i would like to join in the congratulations that have been addressed to you, commissioner, on these economic partnership agreements which were negotiated with the aim of avoiding any disruption to trade between the acp countries and the european community. these negotiations resulted in the interim partnership agreement with the republic of the fiji islands and papua new guinea, the only pacific states to have joined the interim agreement, and work is being measured to conclude comprehensive regional agreements. this agreement includes all the measures necessary for the establishment of a free trade area. the resolution stresses that the epa must contribute to strengthening economic growth, regional integration, economic diversification and poverty reduction. it is important to recall that a genuine regional market is an essential basis for the successful implementation of the interim economic partnership agreement and that regional integration and cooperation are essential for the social and economic development of the pacific states. the agreement is an opportunity to give a new impetus to trade relations and guarantees access to the european market duty-free without quotas for most goods. i would like to emphasize the two billion euro of aid that is planned for 2010, and to conclude i would like to add that it is very important that no infringement of patent law and intellectual property rights affecting trade is committed, including economically. on human rights, i am surprised that we are dealing with papua when that country still sanctions sexual orientation. finally, on the political level, it is important that we have an alliance with the acp in the framework of the wto.
mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, i have heard what you have said. mr minister, you spoke of economic sustainability. the question i ask myself today is what does that mean, apart from words? indeed, what does that mean in an economic, financial, environmental crisis? what guarantees can we give? so despite the commissioner's reassuring words, i ask whether, today, when these agreements have been discussed in another world, the project we are proposing to our acp partners is still really adapted to the current situation? i personally don't believe in it. we meet with ngos, we meet with smes. we were in guyana recently where the president said to us: you are asking us to diversify, but tell us what products our small country can produce to be competitive with brazil and venezuela? so today, i think we shouldn't cover our faces. you speak of flexibility on the one hand and of wto rules on the other. i am sorry, but these two terms are absolutely contradictory, because they require upgrading and today upgrading, as they know very well, leads to the impoverishment of these countries. so i do not think what we are proposing today and what we have proposed in the past is appropriate at all. are we looking at the results of the development model that we have put in place for the last 40 years? it is a failure and i believe that has already been said. this failure, well, today, i think it will continue, the situation will get worse with these partnership agreements because they are absolutely not adapted to the global economic, social and environmental situation.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, first of all, i should like to warmly congratulate not only the council but also the rapporteur, of course, mrs roth-behrendt, the european commission, my fictitious colleagues and, in particular, frédérique ries, for the work we have done. we have sometimes had quite lively exchanges between us, but in the end we arrive at a very satisfactory result which, on the one hand, increases the safety of cosmetic products for the benefit of consumers and, on the other hand, reduces the administrative burdens which had become unnecessary for our european industry. the regulation was necessary because it was necessary to restore clarity to the legislation, which has been amended almost 50 times over the last 30 years. the transposition of the directive was problematic in the 27 member states. there were a number of legal uncertainties and the text had become very heavy, much more costly for our companies in terms of implementation. i would also remind you that the european union's cosmetics companies are the world's leading manufacturers of cosmetics, with over 3 000 manufacturers. it's a highly innovative industry that represents a 65 billion euro market and generates more than 350,000 jobs directly and indirectly, so it's important to care about cosmetics. this new regulation strengthens safety, as i said, and the responsibility of the manufacturer with market surveillance while reducing bureaucracy. it ensures better traceability of cosmetic products, identification of the responsible person, an information dossier with description of the cosmetic product and the manufacturing method. so, indeed, we've had a lot of discussion about nanomaterials, which are used in cosmetics, particularly in solar products, and which have to be subjected to very strict safety requirements, without actually stopping the source of innovation. the product containing nanomaterials will thus have to be notified by the responsible person and not the nanomaterial as such. in conclusion, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that we really must fight against counterfeiting in cosmetics, because there is still a real danger here. we still have a lot to do in this area.
in writing. parliament gave its opinion on the future free trade agreement between the european union and india on wednesday. thanks to the work of the socialists, the text voted in the parliamentary committee recalls the economic and social fragility of india, a country where 80% of the population lives on less than $2 a day. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. in the vote on wednesday, i will defend the socialist vision of fair and just trade and oppose any attempt by the right to reverse those principles.
in writing. the report on which we are to vote on thursday is an attempt to give a concrete answer to the problems of millions of our fellow citizens who are suffering from the rise in food prices. in a context of declining purchasing power in europe, it was important for the european parliament to take a position on a problem whose solutions are known. the price difference between the top and bottom of the food chain can be as great as 1 to 5 and, even if the liberals still refuse to admit it, it is necessary to tackle market failures to ensure reasonable prices for consumers and decent incomes for farmers. i myself proposed that the text should reaffirm the importance of market regulation instruments, which are more necessary than ever in the face of the crisis we are going through. but in order to prevent 'affordable price' from being synonymous with 'poor quality product', i have also asked that the concept of encouraging organic production be introduced in the report. it is desirable that consumers should have access to quality products at reasonable prices, through an ambitious policy of financial incentives for this type of agricultural production.
in writing. every year in europe, 180,000 migrant women are subjected to or at risk of genital mutilation. it is important to remember that such mutilations constitute a violation of human rights and result in very serious physical and psychological harm. there is no justification for such practices on the grounds of cultural or religious traditions. to put an end to this practice, member states must enforce the prohibition in their criminal law and the practice of mutilation must be considered a criminal offence. at the same time, legal and medical assistance must be made available to actual or potential victims. the eu must step up its support for ngos that are doing remarkable prevention and assistance work on the ground. at national and european level, information and education campaigns on targeted groups would help to break the taboo on such practices, while informing families of the criminal consequences of such mutilations. it is therefore important that the eu address this issue by defining common preventive actions to prohibit the practice of mutilation in the eu and by recalling this prohibition in all cooperation agreements with third countries. female genital mutilation is a social problem that affects all of us.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - madam president, commissioner, we are discussing five very important items relating to cohesion policy, which, i remind you, has been the first item in our budget for the last few months. this is a strong signal to the future renewed institutions, to parliament, of course, but also to the commission. of course, the cohesion instruments, and above all the funds, must be a real added value for our citizens, but now, in the context of the deep crisis affecting europe, they must be able to be more responsive, more adapted to urban realities in particular. i particularly welcome the work done on housing aid, because housing is the second priority of our citizens after employment. it is not always a question of money, the funds are there, but the delays - let me say 'structural' delays, sometimes in the management of the states, sometimes in administrative inertia, and sometimes, unfortunately, in both - prevent us from having the impact we keep talking about and which is essential for our territories and for our citizens. this may end up being counterproductive. as the permanent rapporteur for the structural funds in the european union, i am insisting more than ever, in the context of the crisis, that this european money be simplified, clarified and given a concrete political reality.
madam president, between 2007 and 2013, cohesion policy will be the main item of expenditure for europe from brussels, but this development, far from benefiting the french regions, is hurting them. the increase in regional expenditure is in fact at the expense of the common agricultural policy, and therefore at the expense of france. we note that the share of the french regions is steadily decreasing. the bulk of the 347 billion euro of structural funds is earmarked for eastern europe, ruined by more than 40 years of communism. in 2000, brussels had already withdrawn from the french cantons of hainaut the structural funds paid under the former objective i. today, france, whose financial contribution represents 16% of the revenue of the european budget, gives more and more but receives less and less. moreover, these regional aids have not protected the beneficiaries from the global economic crisis because they are part of the ultra-liberal logic of the lisbon strategy. more than ever, we must build a new europe which finally ensures the economic protection of our regions and nations by an active policy of reconquering our internal market.
madam president, madam commissioner, we have seen over the past three decades the benefits of the various cohesion policies we have pursued. these benefits will have to be emphasized during the next elections, which are before us, both in the interest of the citizens who have seen their standard of living sometimes triple, and in the interest of the regions which, after having been in deficit, are now locomotive regions. so the benefits are undeniable. today we have the first budget line in our european budget devoted to these cohesion policies. so the question that is being asked this morning in our six reports, what we, the members of the european parliament, want to achieve, is greater efficiency in the funds and regulations that we put at the disposal of our fellow citizens. the commission, madam commissioner, has the responsibility for ensuring that these schemes and budgets are effective. how did you do that? on the one hand, if you will allow me, madam commissioner, and we know you, we know that at your level we will be heard, by ensuring that the commission takes the demands of the six reports into account, and i take this opportunity to congratulate our six colleagues, the authors of the six reports. you have here, madam commissioner, very concrete answers, whether at the urban or rural level, at the level of good practice or at the level of future cohesion policy. as you know, our reports contain very concrete examples which will help the commission in its work. we therefore expect the commission to give concrete answers at european level. but this is only 50% of the action to be taken to achieve efficiency. that is why we are asking you, commissioner, to intervene as vigorously as possible with the governments, the regions and the local authorities, because they are the ones who implement our systems, our budgets, our regulations, and we will not be effective unless they make sure that they are effective. we are counting on you, commissioner, both at european and national level, to make the six reports we are presenting effective.
madam president, like all my colleagues, i welcome the fact that this debate is taking place here today and i would like to focus on territorial cohesion. i would say that it is never too late to do the right thing, but it is still a waste of time to make territorial cohesion a major political objective of the european union. there were, of course, the institutional problems, which i hope will be resolved soon, and also, excuse me, madam commissioner, the extreme caution of the commission in this matter. however, it must be remembered that parliament has tried to push the envelope constantly throughout this mandate, from 2004-2005 until now, because this principle of fairness in the treatment of all citizens of the european union, regardless of where they live, seems to us extremely important and requires us to move forward together. finally, the green paper has arrived, and we are very happy about it. i think it is a bit lacking in ambition, we would have liked the commission to give a clear definition and objectives rather than to ask very openly about the subject, but we are moving forward even if i think we will again be somewhat hampered by the excessive link with the lisbon strategy when implementing the previous generation of structural funds. the consultation is now under way and i hope it will lead to the need to increase resources, to improve the tools - all this after 2013, we have time, but it will come quickly - to increase financial resources, to develop cooperation at different levels, to have an integrated vision of development, including this problem of sectoral policies which we are discussing, and to coordinate the common agricultural policy and regional development, etc. and we need the white paper as soon as possible, commissioner. in conclusion, i would like to say that it is urgent to promote territorial cohesion in all the regions of europe, because spatial equity is essential for overcoming the crisis and for economic recovery, and also and above all to encourage all our fellow citizens to join the european projects.
madam president, it is a beautiful harmony when doing and saying go together. by this, montaigne may have had in mind the speech and actions of politicians. here in cohesion policy we must seek that harmony. the report proposes lines of thought and commitments to be fulfilled, reflecting our desire as europeans to see the european city as a major development axis for our societies: general decline in populations, lack of employment, urban pollution, reduced mobility within cities, housing that is not suited to sustainable development. these are the key challenges to be met if we are to make our european cities attractive, competitive and pleasant to live in. so to solve the problem, it is necessary to say and do things in harmony. this is the meaning of the urban dimension of cohesion policy: to coordinate, harmonize, make efficient efficiency and credit for the new programming period. in conclusion, two commitments are required: the need to provide significant and clearly identified financial resources to achieve the leipzig objectives and, finally, the need for our cities to cooperate with each other in order to be able to face global competition using the wealth and diversity of solutions within our european area.
madam president, commissioner, i regret that the council and the commission have not yet taken the initiative of defining territorial cohesion in concrete terms. the french presidency has tried to do this and i would like to welcome this initiative. our parliament continues to insist that this objective should be applicable as soon as the treaty of lisbon enters into force and that its outline should be defined as soon as possible. i hope, as mr van nistelrooij's excellent report does, that territorial cohesion will become the legal basis for the harmonious development of all the union's territories and for making the most of the specific features of each european region. better coordination of community policies is essential to maximise the impact of interventions on the ground. territorial cohesion is not intended to be aimed exclusively at regions with permanent handicaps. it must nevertheless focus on the polycentric development of the european union as a whole, taking into account the characteristics of each territory while preserving their diversity. this new concept seems to me to be relevant to the consideration of the outermost regions in order to ensure their sustainable and balanced growth. in this respect, i thank the rapporteur for including in his compromise amendments the requests relating to the specific challenges facing the outermost regions in terms of accessibility and competitiveness, which are essential elements of territorial cohesion. reading the recent commission communication entitled 'the outermost regions, an asset for europe', it seems to me that the commission wants to apply all the recommendations on improving cohesion governance to the outermost regions, making the outermost regions the first illustration, a little ahead of time, of the implementation of territorial cohesion. i hope that the states general of the overseas territories, which will soon be starting in france, will do the same and take into account the major territorial impact of european policies in favour of the overseas territories, whose added value is undeniable and uncontested. in conclusion, i would of course like to thank all our rapporteurs.
in writing. the own-initiative report before us today, which i fully support, confirms the idea that artistic and cultural education, including education in the image, is a fundamental issue in the education system. this education contributes to the democratization of access to culture and to the emancipation of individuals. the resolution calls for the promotion of teacher and student mobility, the recognition of qualifications at european level and cooperation between member states in the field of artistic and cultural education, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. it also stresses the need to develop the training of teachers and other actors (artists and professionals) in order to introduce an artistic and cultural dimension into all teaching and to ensure a high level of pedagogy. the report also rightly stresses the need to use the new information and communication technologies to provide modern, high-quality education that meets the aspirations of young people. he cites europeana, the european digital library, which is a real added value in this context.
in writing. i supported the report by gyula hegyi on active dialogue with citizens on europe. such dialogue is essential and this report places a great deal of emphasis on the importance of action at local level. it is by acting concretely and as closely as possible to the citizens, by simply telling them about europe, that they will be able to have a clearer vision of what the european union does for them, on a daily basis. as the june elections approach, it is essential to promote this dialogue, particularly in rural areas or for the most eurosceptic groups, such as young people or women. the recent interinstitutional political declaration signed by the european parliament, the council and the european commission 'communicating europe in partnership' also goes in this direction. we can be pleased with the importance the institutions attach to such a dialogue and the efforts they wish to make to make citizens feel concerned about the european union.
in writing. you are definitely incorrigible. in your opinion, european citizens are increasingly sceptical of the european union because of lack of education, ignorance or even stupidity. i think it's the exact opposite. there are those who benefit from the opening of borders to all flows of people, goods, capital, etc. and there are the vast majority of people who suffer the consequences: unemployment, insecurity, decreased purchasing power, insecurity, loss of identity, and who know to whom they owe it. your europe is a technocracy ruled by a handful of uncontrolled and uncontrollable oligarchies: the 27 commissioners and a few members of the executive board of the european central bank. a technocracy that is attentive to the thousands of lobbies that influence it, but totally deaf to the rejection expressed by citizens when they agree to consult them by referendum. a system whose policies have prepared and aggravated the financial, economic and social crisis that affects us, and which impedes national measures to save or rescue. so like you, i hope that european citizens will go to the polls en masse in june, and that they will use this vote as a referendum. to tell you no.
in writing. the ppa has established itself as an indispensable tool for political dialogue and conflict prevention and resolution. on the political crisis, our 'emergency debates' have enabled a thorough, constructive and unabashed dialogue on the situation in kenya, zimbabwe and mauritania. on major 'horizontal' north-south issues (such as food security, the effectiveness of public aid and child labour), the apa adopted constructive, often bold, positions in 2008. the app has taken over the strategic documents on the implementation of the edf, and its economic committee has begun its examination of them. but the agenda of the gpa was mainly marked by a political priority, that of the epas. with its 'regional meetings', the jpa has a major asset and unquestionable added value for the monitoring of the epas. this added value must now be recognised and dedicated. the ppa must be at the heart of the parliamentary control mechanism over the negotiation and implementation of agreements. i would like to end by congratulating the work of the co-chair, mrs glenys kinnock. it has succeeded in making the app a unique tool for north-south dialogue, which is an "opportunity" for equitable, sustainable and supportive development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the constanze krehl report on best practice in the field of regional policy, because it provides an innovative definition of best practice and examples of successes, and sets out very concrete recommendations for all areas of eu intervention in this area. i had drawn the rapporteur's attention in particular to the need to improve the accessibility of urban facilities and transport for people with reduced mobility and to the possibility of better reconciling private, family and professional life, especially for women. we hope that these comprehensive recommendations will help and inspire regional policy makers.
in writing. since the introduction of nanoparticles in cosmetic products on the one hand, and the fact that the cosmetics sector is the leading industrial activity for counterfeiting on the other hand, it is important to have clear means of control, in particular to identify counterfeit cosmetic products and therefore, not complying with legal requirements. certain products require special care, such as cosmetics used around the eyes, on mucous membranes, on damaged skin, in children or in people with weakened immune systems. it is clear that particular emphasis should be placed on the assessment of local toxicity, skin and eye irritation, skin sensitisation and, in the case of uv absorption, photo-induced toxicity. moreover, the fight against counterfeiting is imperative through these controls, both in terms of public health, the impact on the environment, but also competitiveness. we shall therefore support this report. however, no further testing of finished products should be carried out if the knowledge of the ingredients contained in the products is in accordance with the standards.
in writing. mr becsey's report proposes further harmonisation and a higher level of taxation on tobacco and is loosely based on public health objectives to justify this. the real objective is a pure and perfect cigarette market at european level, a 'closed' market with a single taxation system, where competition can play out to the full. a little consistency ! either health comes first, or the market. for some products, it cannot be the market. some countries, such as france and belgium, are being sued by the commission for having introduced threshold prices, minimum selling prices. and it is not without reason that the tobacco trade is so heavily regulated, at national level (distribution subject to authorization) or international (limited cross-border purchases) and that for once, border controls actually exist, even if they are hampered by european regulations. finally, the report raises concerns about the future of french farmers, who play such an important role in maintaining local shops and the provision of certain public services in rural areas, and who had been seriously jeopardised by a previous tax increase.
in writing. we will of course support this courageous report which in fact tackles practices from another era, practices which are spreading to our european territories as a result of immigration. in the light of the universal declaration of human rights and the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination and violence against women, it is no longer acceptable that such practices should continue in europe and throughout the world. according to the world health organization, 100 to 140 million women and girls worldwide have been subjected to female genital mutilation, and every year 2 to 3 million women are at risk of being severely disabled by this practice. we must not forget that such practices have their origin in social structures based on gender inequality and imbalanced relations of domination and control under social and family pressure, but that this amounts to a violation of fundamental rights and causes serious and irreversible damage. it is absolutely necessary to condemn and punish such practices. the immigrant populations must comply with our laws and respect for human dignity and not bring with them unacceptable barbaric practices.
president of the commission. − mr president, the g20 summit in london will be a milestone in the global response to the global crisis. i am very confident that, under prime minister brown’s leadership, it will be a success. the initiative for a global response to a global crisis came from europe. i recall that both president sarkozy and i went to camp david to propose to president bush a global response. the g20 summit in washington in november 2008 was precisely the result of those joint efforts. europe has, therefore, a particular responsibility in the current g20 process. we want the london summit to succeed, and i am sure it will succeed. europe will be united in london and with a unified message. as agreed last week by the 27 member states in the european council, we will have a proactive agenda for london. we want concrete results on a stimulus for the world economy and on the regulation of all financial actors, from banks to hedge funds, to new rules on credit-rating agencies. we should be clear that there is no dichotomy between stimulating the economy and improving regulation – we need both. indeed, we need to go beyond that: we need also to reject all forms of economic nationalism and protectionism and we need to renew our commitments to the less-developed world, making sure that europe will respect the millennium development goals. the economic slowdown is particularly severe. so providing a coordinated stimulus to the economy through supporting overall demand is necessary. the european union is already doing a lot on this front: our overall fiscal effort, combining discretionary action and automatic stabilisers, is close to 4% of gdp. now we must implement our recovery plans vigorously. we know what we have to do: to get loans flowing again; to keep people in jobs; to improve their skills for when the upturn comes; to continue to invest in productivity and european competitiveness. the commission will monitor and evaluate what member states are doing to coordinate our overall response to the crisis. on financial regulation, the european union wants to move the frontier further: no financial product, no institution, no market, no jurisdiction should be exempt from regulation. but not regulation for the sake of regulating – we need further regulation because we need markets to function properly again, funding jobs and investments. only in this way will confidence be restored, and confidence is key. putting ethics back in the financial system is also a condition for the confidence we need in open economies. in the european union, the frontier is already moving: proposals on capital adequacy and credit-rating agencies have been presented by the commission and are currently being discussed also by this parliament. over the coming weeks the commission will table proposals on hedge funds, private equity and executive pay and, in time for the june european council, the commission will put forward a package for a new european supervisory system. the european union is moving: we will say it loud and clear in london so that we can work together with our partners, namely our american friends. we want the others to move along with us; we need global rules for a global economy. take the case of impaired assets: clearly, without cleaning the banking system, credit will not flow back to the economy. the european union now has a framework, provided by the commission, to address this issue. g20 finance ministers discussed at length the treatment of impaired assets less than two weeks ago. the set of principles they adopted largely reflects european union views on the matter. so, once again, we had the unique experience of setting supranational and transnational rules and show that the european union is better prepared than anyone not to impose but to propose the rules for this globalisation. in london, the european union must also give a strong message rejecting protectionism. we will defend our internal market at home, keeping it open, and we will work for open, global markets too. we must not give up on doha and must reach an agreement soon. nor can we forget the countries most in need: we must stick to our commitments on the millennium development goals. we must always bear in mind that the actions we take are only the means to an end, improving people’s well-being. these are measures not for the financial system – not for that particular segment of the economy – but for people. at the current juncture, this means we must cushion and mitigate the effects on employment of the economic downturn in the european union. indeed, employment is our first concern now. we will hold an employment summit on 7 may to mobilise ideas and actions in favour of keeping people in jobs and retraining them for the jobs of the future. we are working with social partners, because we believe that is also part of our model in europe –the idea to work together with our social partners – and we believe that in this way we can help our workers to prepare them for the jobs of the future sustainable and low carbon economy that we want european to lead. the meeting of the g20 in london will, therefore, have to deliver in quite a number of areas – a very ambitious programme. i am sure that, under the leadership of gordon brown and with a strong european contribution, the g20 will deliver and will build a global consensus on the international economy. (applause)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the british prime minister, gordon brown, who will be hosting a g20 summit in a few days' time, where europe is expected in a way that has rarely been the case. the first lesson to be drawn from the crisis is that economies are now so interconnected that national solutions have become unthinkable. the difficulties which we have, it must be said, mainly from the united states, because of the absence of rules, have been a real problem. and europe, mr brown, must understand that it will only be strong if it speaks with one voice to defend its common interests. it must be strong enough to bring all the regional economies on the path of new growth. i am not forgetting josé manuel barroso and that it was under the impetus of europe, and in particular of nicolas sarkozy, that the g20 was called upon to help restore order to a financial system that has lost its compass. solidarity and responsibility are the two major principles of europe. collectively, we stand ready to help and support those of us who are experiencing the most difficulty. and although i wish your country the best, mr prime minister, the latest imf figures concerning it are unfortunately very worrying for you, as they are for other countries of the union, in hungary in particular. for several years i have been a volunteer firefighter and i know that when a house is on fire, it doesn't take long before the neighbours' houses are on fire too. my colleagues on the left in this house, your friends, mr brown, will no doubt be calling for more social europe, more protection, after me. before they do, i will tell them that it was precisely these simplistic slogans of spending money we do not have that led to the failure of the policies of the 1980s in many european countries. (applause) i would like to thank of course, mr. prime minister, not yours, i admit that in the 1980s it was not your government. these same colleagues will not fail to repeat that the present crisis is the child of globalisation and the market economy. i will answer them in advance that thanks to this market economy, the average income of our citizens has risen by 40% in the last 40 years. i would also remind them that while the peoples of the countries excluded from the market economy, sheltered from the berlin wall, have suffered the fate we all know, globalisation and the market economy have enabled the people of western europe to prosper at an average rate of 2% growth per annum. all this is to say that the advocates of social europe are not necessarily the ones we think they are. mr president, the construction of europe has always been a matter of solidarity between the citizens of its countries, and in the difficult period we are going through, more than ever, europe's duty is once again to prove this by deeds. supporting the banks was necessary, because it saved those who trusted them from losing everything and that's not for nothing. it's not enough. our first concern must be solidarity with those who lose their jobs, with the families who are struggling to make ends meet. and only by restoring growth, only by restoring the right economic and fiscal environment to entrepreneurs will we restore confidence and jobs. the european aid programme of 400 billion euros will help us to overcome the crisis. it will generate new investment, it will boost demand and thereby support growth and create jobs. the european internal market can be a powerful lever, and any protectionist measures will only make matters worse. mr brown, it is not enough to condemn protectionism abroad. it is also important to avoid endorsing slogans such as 'british jobs for british workers' at home, because this is putting one's finger in the very dangerous gears of economic nationalism. but i trust the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to enforce the law and to ensure that our companies can operate in a free and fair market. our priority is to establish a new global financial architecture with more stability, more supervision and, above all, more transparency. we must speed up the so-called basel ii reforms, we must subject speculative funds to strict controls. mr. prime minister, i appreciate that you have come here not to impose ideas but to listen to the expectations of the citizens. do not forget, mr prime minister, and especially next week, that you are a true european. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister, you recalled that 20 years ago the berlin wall fell, condemning once and for all the model it embodied, which had been dying for some time. the temptation was too great in this context to let loose the reins of a landless capitalism. the european union was the first to succumb to this temptation. the fathers of this new model or their successors are now overtaken by their creature that has become uncontrollable. to get through such an existential crisis, one must first dare to question oneself. i don't feel like we're on that path. at the last european council, the president of the commission said, and i quote, 'we have lived up to our responsibilities'. the council was very satisfied with the results achieved, with the credit going, as it often does, to mr berlusconi, who described the union as 'a healthy body attacked by a virus'. well, let's see now. so far, the few self-critical accents have come from the economic sphere itself, such as those of the president of morgan stanley in asia, stating, i quote, "we are all responsible: financial institutions, regulators, rating agencies, boards of directors, politicians, central banks. all of this we must accept collectively". that's what changes us. i believe that you, mr prime minister, are the first european political leader to have also drawn up a mea culpa. it was about the attitude you adopted ten years ago after the asian crisis, an attitude which you feel today is not firm enough in the face of those who thought that these were then temporary problems. the old idea that markets were efficient and could regulate themselves is over, you said. i'd like to say that i prefer this zeal for humility to the somewhat self-righteous speech delivered right here by your predecessor in a previous life. i am convinced that the account is not there. as the recent report of the secretariat of the united nations conference on trade and development put it, and i quote, 'what is needed is to close the big casino'. the dogma applied over the last twenty years has failed spectacularly. that is why those who have pompously announced the g20 as a new bretton woods where capitalism would be re-founded, or even moralised, have deceived our fellow citizens. there will be no "big night" on april 2nd in london. i think that the united, a great union in your country, has found the right words to say where the problem is. his slogan for the march next saturday in the british capital will be, and i quote, "putting people first". this seems obvious, yet it borders on the copernican revolution in relation to what the dominant system has become. this says a lot about the nature of the challenges of our time. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the european investment bank, mr philippe maystadt, my first question concerns the report by the european investment bank. i wonder about the regulatory and supervisory role requested by our parliament. has it been set up? i am not surprised, commissioner, that you did not take the initiative that article 105 gives you to refer the matter to the council so that the european central bank could carry out such a task. you answered me in a very evasive way, and i regret it. i would also like to comment on the guarantee: i do not understand why the guarantee which is thus granted is not paid? of the total of some 30 billion guarantees that are planned, this would represent a loss of resources for the union budget of between 30 and 100 million euros, and i also do not understand, mr president of parliament, why the committee on budgetary control, which is responsible for examining the questions of the european investment bank, has not been consulted on this question of the guarantee granted to the european investment bank.
mr president, madam commissioner, i would first like to remind you that our debate is part of a long process which has been going on for some years now: consultations with the european commission, the health assessment of the cap, the fourth report on economic and social cohesion, the lamassoure report on the own resources of the budget. our european commission has announced its intention to present, by autumn 2009 at the latest, its main guidelines for this review, which has resulted in a remarkable work of our committee, under the leadership of reimer böge. and we know that this review will take place when the next european parliament is in place. it is not our present parliament that will achieve it. i would therefore like to stress one essential political point, namely that we have found almost unanimity in the future financial framework to coincide with the political mandate of the future parliament, and this is a provision which we wish to see perpetuated. i think this is very important because we will finally have a coherence between the outcome of the elections and the budgetary guidelines which the commission will have to follow. i would also like to point out that the socialists believe that the budget should be refocused on the fundamental tasks: employment, growth and innovation, as our friend mr färm has said, but before i conclude i would like to stress that the real future of the union depends on this revision, and i hope that in future the future parliament will build on the böge report, so that parliament can take our european ambition further in the face of the national egoisms that are daily relayed by the council's distortions. it is up to parliament to produce european policies which give all our citizens a genuine hope in a political project and not just an economic one.
mr president, the consequences of the fundamentalist approach to open markets and free trade are being paid dearly by the mad globalists and the madmen of globalism to the workers of the european automobile industry. the financial virus of the american mortgage crisis was thus able to contaminate the financial system, the world banking system, without resistance, causing metastatic contamination of our economic system and the destruction of our businesses and our jobs. i am elected with my colleague fernand le rachinel in the french regions of picardy, nord-pas de calais and normandy, where thousands of jobs are doomed, and i want to tell you that european trade policies are paying an unbearable, unjustifiable and unacceptable human and social price. but the open-market fanatics persist and sign. today, gordon brown and barroso have reaffirmed their refusal to protect europe, to protect our industries, to protect our jobs, in the name of free trade and sovereign globalism. the left-wing social-globalists, the right-wing liberal globalists, the far-left alter-globalists who want to see nothing and hear nothing, betray and abandon the workers of europe. globalists of all countries, unite, and workers of our countries, disappear! this is the manifesto of the globalist party. on the other hand, the constant hunt for motorists and cars by eco-citizens, governments and some local elected officials is not compatible with the defence and promotion of our automobile industries. finally, the far-left demagogues who see in the present crisis a revolutionary boon are clearly incapable of meeting the needs of french and european workers. it is through economic and social patriotism, national and european preference and national and european protection that we can revive our industrial sectors.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome this report on the single european sky as a real step forward which many of us welcome. these two regulations meet the high expectations of all the actors concerned in all the countries of the union, because the excessive fragmentation of the current system leads to costly effects and, above all, to serious inefficiencies in traffic management. this new european sky will gradually enable aircraft to abandon the non-linear routes they are currently forced to take in favour of more direct routes, which are therefore more efficient and, above all, cheaper for passengers. i am very pleased that this will reduce the environmental impact of air transport, of course, and reduce the cost to the consumer. this, together with the harmonization of safety standards, is also a very interesting step forward and will make air transport safer, shorter, of course, but also and above all less polluting and less expensive. however, on behalf of the alliance group, i call on the commission to make available financial resources, in particular, and logically, the funds of the transeuropean networks, but also aid from the european investment bank to finance all the large-scale joint projects aimed at improving european air navigation. once again, i believe, the european parliament has succeeded in overcoming its divisions and moving forward and leading the council to reach a rapid agreement on this matter which is essential for european aviation and the reduction of its impact on the environment, and i am also pleased with the commissioner that this is a concrete, tangible sign for our citizens.
in writing. a compromise was reached between the council and our institution, which allowed these two dossiers to be closed at first reading. i welcome this agreement, which is an important step towards the creation of a single european sky. this will lead to significant improvements in flight duration, fuel consumption, travel costs and co2 emissions. while the first regulation focuses on the performance and modernisation of the european aviation system, the second highlights safety requirements and ensures that this major development in air traffic management in europe does not come at the expense of the safety of aircraft and their passengers. parliament fought hard to get these two texts, which are very complementary, voted on together and i am pleased that our institution has succeeded in convincing the council of this. member states, airlines and passengers are all beneficiaries of these new rules, which are preparing air transport for the decades to come.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the interoperability of mobile phone chargers by marco cappato, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-0057/2009) (b6-0225/2009).
the debate is closed.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted a recommendation for second reading on the common consular instructions: biometric identification and visa applications (05329/1/2009 - c6-0088/2009 - 2006/0088 ((cod)) rapporteur: sarah ludford (a6-0143/2009)
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you are chairing this sitting and it is therefore your place to speak on this matter which you have followed as rapporteur for an opinion. first of all, i would like to warmly congratulate sarah ludford on the energy and results she has brought to bear in the difficult negotiation of this dossier. i think the european parliament can be proud of the results achieved because the task was far from easy, as we have seen. i would like to stress two points in particular which i consider essential and on which we can be particularly satisfied. first, the raising of the age limit for fingerprinting of minors from six to twelve years; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of personal data in the event of a breach of the rights of the individual. i know that some people feel that the solution adopted does not fully fit in with the options we have proposed, particularly as regards the collection by a service provider in a diplomatic office and the transfer of data by encrypted e-mail or even by encrypted electronic media carried in a diplomatic bag. it should be noted, however, that the collection by private bodies can only be done in compliance with european legislation and that the data must be fully encrypted by the provider and transmitted to the authorities of the member state. in addition, we have been given the reference to the need to negotiate agreements with third countries which prohibit the encryption of data transmitted electronically. the examination of applications, any interviews, the authorisation procedure and the printing and affixing of visa sticker will be carried out solely by the diplomatic or consular representation. the same conditions apply to the transmission of data collected from one member state to another in the case of colocalisations, i.e. the representation of one member state by another in a third country. finally, if the detailed conditions for the activity of service providers are described in an annex to the text, they will have to be defined in a binding legal framework. in view of these results, we can only welcome the guarantees thus obtained in the direction of a better visa policy in europe, which will certainly benefit european citizens and improve our relations with third countries.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by kartika tamara liotard, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods and amending regulation (ec) no xxx/xxxx (uniform procedure) (com (2007) 0872 - c6-0027/2008 - 2008/0002 (cod)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday.
the agenda calls for the report by johannes blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer (recast) (com (2008) 0505 - c6-0297/2008 - 2008/0165 (cod)).
come on, mrs doyle, this is it!
mrs. doyle, you did not overdo it. thank you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, last friday europe set out a road map for the g20 meeting on 2 april, after having, from the beginning of the crisis, drawn our american partners and the rest of the world into an ambitious and very necessary reform of the financial markets. some people here yesterday said in the g20 debate that this was not enough. others said it was too much. the reality is that europe, in the successive crises we have just experienced, finally exists, coordinates, works as a team. i repeat, in the crisis situation we are in, as on all global issues - energy, climate, foreign affairs, security and defence - national solutions are no longer appropriate. and even if the british prime minister, whom we heard yesterday, celebrates the virtues of the european union, saying, and i quote, 'proud to be british and proud to be european', i feel strengthened in my position. the decision of the european council last week to set up a 50 billion fund to help the member states outside the euro area in this difficult period is a good thing, because what affects one of us affects us all. this is the meaning of the european construction. in addition to the 400 billion in the european economic recovery plan, these funds will help to get growth back on track and create wealth and, ultimately, jobs. the same applies to the €5 billion package we have decided to invest to support projects in the field of energy, internet-related measures and other subjects. i call on the council to do everything possible to allow agreement before the end of this parliament on the three major issues currently on the table: credit rating agencies, regulatory capital directives and the solvency ii directive. the council must move faster on the latter text to enable it to be adopted at first reading in april. we do not need any more socialist economic measures. we need more jobs, and this package of measures will do that. i am also pleased to note that no european leader of the left or the right supported socialist measures in brussels last week. it also reinforces my feeling that there is not always much coherence between what the socialist group chairman is saying now and what governments led by socialists are doing, and, my dear martin, you still have a lot of work to do to convince your political friend steinbruck to become more social. i would also like to mention the preparations for the copenhagen conference in december and ask the czech presidency to prepare proposals for international financing mechanisms by june. on the energy/climate package, europe has given the "a" and must not lose its advantage. climate change will not wait for the crisis to end. it is therefore our responsibility to convince our partners to join us in the fight against climate change and to adopt the 30% reduction target. barack obama seems to have decided to take the plunge by deciding to set up a system of trading emissions in the united states. and finally, i am pleased that europe is finally taking the countries of its eastern neighbourhood seriously by adopting a strategic partnership with armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine. this will help to support the work of the euronext assembly, which my group has initiated and which will be established with the agreement of all the parliamentary groups, as from the next parliament. on the other hand, it is high time that the union for the mediterranean, which was set up last summer, set up its secretariat in barcelona and worked on concrete projects. the 27 asked for it last week, and we are waiting for a road map in june.
mr president, we have a lot of fun reading the conclusions of the presidency of the last council. they are like the victory communiqué of all the defeated armies. they are as ridiculous as the repeated assertion that the eu will build a stronger economy for the future once the crisis is over, or the reaffirmation of a failed lisbon strategy. so as they lock themselves in their glass tower, the eurocrats, the europhiles and the europeomaniacs of all kinds, end up losing their sense of proportion. it is well known that the euro zone was the first to enter recession after eight years of the lowest growth rate in the world. but it is also the one which is experiencing the greatest difficulties in terms of industrial competitiveness and the employment situation. it is above all the united states which, by the general disarmament of the natural defenses of nations, is least equipped to react. in reality, the only merit of this crisis will be to awaken the people lulled by the facilities of financial anticipation and by anti-national propaganda. only the states will have the legitimate instruments to take any major action and they will have to shake the carcasses of the eu and the euro. for the french, in any case, it is becoming increasingly clear that there will be no salvation without france, no france without french politics, no french politics without national and popular sovereignty.
mr president, of the 22 pages of conclusions of the european council, only one very small sentence deals with the future of the automobile sector, with a european industrial policy. is this a practical response to the challenges to the expectations of 12 million workers in the sector and the anxieties of 6% of the working population in the european union? there is no proposal for a european plan, no prospects for the automobile sector, no desire to coordinate national policies. in this parliament, on behalf of the french socialist delegation, on 19 november 2008, i appealed to all the responsible european actors, wishing them a new car deal, a solidary and structured industrial policy, in the short, medium and long term, providing a coordinated response by the states and the union, prompt and effective. four months later, after a joint resolution by several groups, we are again stressing the future of the motor vehicle sector. what are you waiting for to react, to act, to rise to this challenge before it's too late? this is not rhetoric, mr president-in-office, it is a call for action.
mr president, it is difficult not to be disappointed by the outcome of this summit. if complacency and fiction were tools of economic recovery, indeed, one could speak of success. i know that the economy is largely psychological, that we must try to rebuild confidence, but finally, when the crisis is getting worse to this extent, when the recession is deepening in all the member states, when unemployment is exploding, to hear the council say that it is confident about the medium and long term prospects for the eu economy and that it is determined to do what is necessary to revive employment and growth, it is still quite astonishing. determined to do what? the agenda of this council has already been cleared of all proposals which might have had to do with employment. it was postponed until may. finally, the may employment summit at this council was itself transformed into a simple troika meeting. it seems that it was president sarkozy who managed to convince the other member states that it was not necessary to make employment proposals a priority of the functioning of the european union. this reminds us of an opt-out which had already been requested by other governments, a british conservative government, on the whole employment aspect of the european treaties. so today mr sarkozy is calling for an opt-out of employment policies. the worrying thing is that this would affect all the member states. i am not too surprised that your commission, mr barroso, which has in a way put the european social agenda in parentheses during its mandate, has opted out of the european union's social and employment priorities and has yielded to this injunction coming from a member of your majority, the conservative epp, but i think that this is absolutely deplorable and that it is the workers who will ultimately pay the costs of this non-europe in terms of coordinating not only recovery policies but also employment policies. fiction also like the 400 billion you add, which are not only an addition of national stimulus plans, but above all policies which are not even national stimulus policies because they are just the famous economic stabilizers, that is to say the increase in social spending linked to the increase in unemployment. you've painstakingly put another $5 billion on the table. so i think what we need today is a genuine recovery plan, like the united states, which has put over 780 million dollars on the table, and a coordinated effort to support workers in the face of the crisis, demand which is also a factor that will be much more effective than self-satisfaction in boosting growth, confidence and dynamism in our economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our colleague, mr schultz, president of the socialist group, intends to have the rules of this house amended on the pretext that i could be the president of the next parliament. but, to support his .... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr schulz made defamatory statements on that occasion and accused me of the crime of blasphemy. i would like to say that this argument is wrong and that i have merely said that the gas chambers were a detail of the history of the world war, which is obvious. (various movements) i would remind you, madam president, that i was awarded eur 200 000 in damages, which is a testament to the state of freedom of opinion and expression in europe and france. your shouting will not hide your responsibility for the crisis of euro-globalism, which you are the proponents of. then please, let me speak. i would ask the president of the socialist group, madam president, to apologize for an accusation which is false.
i agree with this procedure.
madam president, on paragraph 39, compromise amendment no 19 would seem acceptable to our group if we could add, as regards non-state actors, 'participation'. this would result in the following amendment: '39a. in particular emphasizes the essential role of acp parliaments and the participation of non-state actors in the monitoring and management of epas', the rest unchanged. i think the rapporteur, glyn ford, agrees with that.
madam president, if amendment no 4 were an addition, then amendments nos 14 and 8 should not have been adopted and therefore we would have voted on 14 and 8.
please, a little respect for the victims who disappeared in auschwitz and elsewhere. we still have two minutes. a little respect. i would simply say that i agree with mr schultz completely and that what we have heard in this house today is wrong. (applause) i would like to thank
mrs wallis, it is extremely regrettable that you gave the floor to mr daul and mr schulz and not to me. it is true that you testified in a report that you were the specialist in the interpretation of the variable geometry regulation. i would therefore like to propose, in the spirit of what mr schulz said, that the name of the building be changed to winston churchill, since in his twelve-volume history of the second world war winston churchill did not write a single line on the history of the gas chambers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation, put forward by the british democrat sarah ludford, on common consular instructions: biometric identification and visa applications. the agreement at second reading confirms the intention to introduce biometric data into the european visa information system (vis). the common consular instructions also ensure that all member states issue visas to nationals of nearly 100 countries, on the basis of similar criteria and characteristics. the text thus has the merit of introducing fundamental measures for the protection of citizens, as well as provisions ensuring respect for the privacy and personal data of third-country nationals.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the performance and sustainability of the european aeronautical system, presented by my romanian colleague marian-jean marinescu. the text is part of the single sky ii package and aims to improve the performance of the european aeronautical system. it addresses several concerns: environmental concerns, through the introduction of measures to reduce co2 emissions; functional concerns, since it aims to streamline air traffic by increasing capacity and optimum route planning; and concerns about the safety of european citizens, by encouraging cooperation and coordination between the various actors. following the single sky i package, this report has the merit of presenting a dynamic vision of the current challenges by proposing long-term solutions for an effective modernisation of the aviation sector.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we did not vote on any of the texts on the new partnership agreements with the poorest acp countries in the world. we are not voting against these countries, which deserve a genuine policy of cooperation and development that helps them to lift their populations out of poverty, their territories out of underdevelopment and their economies out of difficulties. they also deserve trade relations which take account of their particular situations, but also of our own interests, and in particular those of our outermost regions, which are forgotten in your policies. what you are proposing to them are agreements which are in accordance with the sacrosanct rules of the wto, and which are designed to insert them into ultra-liberal globalisation. you condemn them to export crops that starve them and to the exploitation of their wealth by multinational companies which have long ceased to serve a particular country but are stateless, anonymous and motivated only by their financial interests. these countries have the right to choose the pace of opening their borders and liberalising their economies. and why not take another path, that of reasonable protectionism and mutually beneficial relations, based on reciprocity. this is the path we are also asking for france and europe.
in writing. according to the epas, sugar and bananas from acp countries will not be able to access the markets of the french outermost regions (ors) for a renewable period of ten years, thus preserving the production of these two pillars of overseas agriculture. the specific safeguard clause, which allows imports to be blocked in the event of injury or disturbance to the oct market, should be further specified in order to reduce the time taken for its implementation. the calls made by parliament have therefore made it possible to take account of the demands of the ors in the negotiations. overseas socio-professional actors feel that they are penalized by production constraints that respect european standards, making them less competitive than their direct competitors. i understand them, but i nevertheless encourage them to engage fully in a process of cooperation with their acp neighbours, in order to foster complementarities and solidarity on commonly defined objectives. rather than camping on a defensive position, the rup have every advantage in positioning themselves in a competition of equals. the european union must provide adequate means of control and arbitration to avoid any form of unfair competition.
in writing. for years, alongside our african colleagues, socialists have been mobilizing to make the epas real instruments of development. we have negotiated with the commission with strength and determination to achieve fair agreements in the service of the millennium development goals. by playing the card of regionalization chosen and conducted by the acp themselves. by keeping our commitments on trade aid promised in 2005 rather than continuing to "plunder" the edf. today our fight has largely paid off, as the trade commissioner has committed herself on behalf of the european commission to: - the essential objective of developing the agreements; - the renegotiation of the disputed points of the agreements in an open and flexible approach; - food security and the protection of the fragile industries of the acp countries. of course we would have liked more guarantees on the involvement of national parliaments and the acp-eu assembly in monitoring the implementation of the agreements. but within a few weeks, the progress is considerable. i'll take that under advisement. but i want to be very vigilant about their implementation. so no white-seing, abstention is the rule.
in writing. our position on the economic partnership agreements is still critical. we believe that the negotiations have started very badly, by not respecting the specificities of our partners. we are also convinced that negotiations with them should not be rushed and, above all, that they should not be forced to implement abrupt reforms which could prove disastrous for their social cohesion and their economies. but our vote takes account of the very encouraging statements made by commissioner ashton in the plenary on monday 23 march. that is why we abstained and did not vote against, as we would certainly have done a few weeks ago. however, our abstention is a warning: we want to judge the commission's action on the basis of facts and do not want to give it a blank check for the future.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution on the future of the motor industry. the text emphasises the need for a clear and coherent policy at european level to deal with a crisis affecting all eu member states. it is estimated that 12 million jobs in europe are directly or indirectly linked to the automobile industry. sales are falling, stocks are increasing, there are more and more redundancies: in the face of the social disaster that is looming, there is no miracle, only coordinated measures can save the sector. that is why i voted in favour of this joint resolution which calls on the european authorities, in conjunction with the member states, to put in place measures to ensure the future competitiveness of the european automobile industry and the sustainability of employment in the european automobile sector. the resolution, however, comes a little late and does not meet all expectations. the debate is therefore far from over and promises to be heated, especially in view of the current social challenges and the reaffirmed need for a social europe that protects its citizens.
in writing. we voted on the resolution on the automobile industry. but we must not forget that those who today pretend to save it are the real ones responsible for this disaster. they are responsible for the expansion of a financialized, global economy, disconnected from reality, where the guarantee of high returns for shareholders takes the place of industrial strategy, where shares rise with the announcement of social plans, while bosses who are not always capable are awarded bonuses and golden parachutes. they created this system where the employment and the wages of the workers became the only adjustment variables. they are responsible for the impoverishment of households which weighs heavily on demand, fuelling the vicious circle. even now, when hundreds of thousands of jobs are at stake, the commission is raising the dogma of competition, impeding national measures to avoid job losses, holding renault to account to ensure that the increase in production in a factory is not the result of a relocation of activity. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. it's time to change policy. for the good of europe and especially of europeans.
in writing. the european parliament will endorse the dictates of the european commission which strongly opposes any defence by states of their national automobile industry. all peoples should know that the ultra-liberal policy of the commission and parliament is a fantastic accelerator of the relocation of french companies to the more economically 'profitable' states. at a time when thousands of jobs are directly threatened in the automotive industry and in the subcontracting sectors, this antinational choice is morally indecent and economically suicidal. the members who join this industrial and social disaster will have to answer to the workers and their families, who are the direct victims of their ideological blindness.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i think we should try not to tell ourselves stories and know that when valery pal is released, the turkmen government continues to disappear, imprison and torture other people in turkmenistan for crimes of opinion. when the un special rapporteur on religious freedom goes to turkmenistan, nine other special rapporteurs are still waiting for their permission, not the least of which is torture, human rights, judicial independence, education, health, freedom of expression, etc. many interventions are really like self-persuasion exercises. we are still facing one of the most repressive and closed regimes in the world, even though there are advances and we need to find the right strategy to support them. we must not be naive either and, of course, demand that turkmenistan become a model of democracy and human rights before entering into any agreement with it. so between these two extremes what do we do? i simply propose that you have a real foreign policy and that you respect the criteria which are extremely precise, which are measurable, which are realistic and which are those of the european parliament. i am thinking of the authorization of access for independent ngos and the un special rapporteurs, for the international red cross. we know that negotiations are under way but they are not concluded. i am thinking of the realignment of the education system - which is under way but still far from being satisfactory - to international standards, the release of all political prisoners and their freedom of movement, in short, the human rights of the b.a.-ba. the proposal from my group is both ambitious and realistic. it's a formula. (the president interrupted the speaker to ask him to speak more slowly, at the request of the interpreters) we cannot be the saboteurs of our own politics by giving up our values. it is not a question of advocating the isolation of turkmenistan but of engaging with it. so how do you do that? well, have two pencils, one in each hand. with the first pencil we will sign a road map, which sets out steps in the implementation of the criteria which are defined by parliament. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. when we have signed this road map, with the other hand and the other pencil, we can sign the interim agreement that is before us. i believe that when the commission and the council are discussing the future of the human rights clauses, it is absolutely necessary that these clauses be systematic and that they be systematically accompanied by a consultation mechanism which may, if necessary, lead to the suspension of this agreement.
mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, i think we must get out of the hypocrisy of this matter. i myself was part of the european parliament delegation to turkmenistan in 2006, and we made a number of proposals at that time, which you mentioned, madam commissioner. of course, i understand your arguments and those of the council, but when i compare what has been proposed with the report we voted on here a few months ago, on 20 february 2008, on central asia, where we reiterated our demands in relation to the release of prisoners, in relation to the red cross, etc., has there really been any progress? no, i'm not going. for my part, when i read the 'turkmenistan report', i read the 'nabucco report' because, after all, we are interested in energy, in gas from this third largest gas producing country in the world. and i know - it was very clearly explained to us when we were present in turkmenistan - that if the european union was not interested in turkmen gas, they had other customers, and in particular china. so let's not be hypocritical, let's be clear about this... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of our colleague, mr jacques toubon. i would first like to thank our colleague, mr popa, who has done an excellent job of trying to find compromises acceptable to all, despite the extreme positions taken by some of my colleagues in the pse and the greens on this issue. the report raises the important question of the balance between security and fundamental freedoms on the internet. while many people see this new technology as a symbol of progress and opportunity, it is not without its dangers. for example, it is essential to ensure freedom of expression and information on this new medium, while ensuring that this is done in harmony with respect for other fundamental freedoms, such as the protection of privacy, personal data and respect for intellectual property. the rapporteur, mr lambrinidis, has done an excellent job in taking account of the new forms of crime on the internet and the dangers it poses, particularly to minors. unfortunately, the report is more ambiguous and even dangerous in other respects. the amendments tabled by our colleagues hieronymi, mavrommatis and jacques toubon are intended to make it clear that infringements of fundamental freedoms should not be condoned in the name of freedom of expression and information. member states and internet actors should retain some leeway to find the best solutions so that the rights of some do not radically impede the exercise of the rights of others. laws should apply on the internet as they apply everywhere else. the internet cannot be a virtual territory where an act that constitutes a legal offence in the real world would be considered authorized, and even protected by the mere effect of the technology and the use made of it. the rule of law in our democratic societies is at stake.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as an artist i am sorry, i am very shocked by the lack of interest in the cultural sector in mr lambrinidis' report. i would stress that the rights of individuals must be safeguarded and protected at all times, in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and that the rights and freedoms of all parties concerned must be guaranteed. the information society is an increasingly important economic sector, but also a major source of innovation and creativity, which underpins the modern economy. this includes ensuring access for all to a diverse culture and education in a context that respects community law and the fair recognition of the value of the creative work of authors and performers, including in the digital economy. this recognition implies remuneration for their creative contribution to all types of use so that they can live and work independently in their profession. in this context, intellectual property rights should not be seen as a barrier but rather as a driver of creative activities, particularly in the context of the development of new online services. on the other hand, i believe that even on the internet racist, hateful or negative speech should be subject to criminal prosecution. freedom of expression must be exercised responsibly. a balance needs to be struck between free access to the internet, respect for privacy and protection of intellectual property. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support my amendments nos 2 to 6.
madam president, madam commissioner, the lisbon strategy is a great success in at least one respect. the european union has become one of the most competitive areas in the world in terms of poverty manufacturing. we have thus been able to provide 80 million poor people and 43 million hungry europeans, including the elderly, who may die sooner and thus reduce public expenditure, thus better meeting the maastricht criteria. in france alone, we have 80 million meals served, every year, by restos du coeur. to feed these poor people since 1987, we had a food distribution programme, a budget of 300 million euros a year. 300 million divided by 80, divided by 12, that's enough to distribute 25 cents of food a month to each of the 80 million poor. this food was taken from intervention stocks but since the 1992 reform, when the butter mountains, the milk rivers, the refrigerators that were overflowing were criticized, these stocks have been exhausted. and for 2010-12, we will buy foodstuffs on the market, where non-european products also arrive, in the name of the wto and the fight against protectionism. that is to say, since 1962 we have been feeding our cattle with imported oilseeds, and from 2010 we will feed our poor, here too, with imports. all this, co-financed in the name of universality. but the problem, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the real problem is that there are still 80 million poor people after 22 years of food programmes.
madam president, i think that the question of the distribution of foodstuffs to the most deprived is indeed quite appropriate, but i think that the commission's proposal does not correspond to the problem at all. the question of cofinancing is of interest to me and i think that it is rather the question of the liberalism which has dominated the evaluations of the cap in recent years that is to be questioned. hunger riots, sudden changes in food prices are permanent indicators of the limits of agricultural market liberalization. this liberalization has always been at the expense of fragile populations, fragile producers and fragile territories. i therefore call for the political right to be taken back, to be taken back in hand both at european and global level and for the strategic field of agriculture and food, both from a quantitative and qualitative point of view, not to be subject to the strict laws of the market. there is certainly urgency, and the siekierski report responds to that urgency, and i welcome that, but i would like to see it recalled in the context of the forthcoming reflection on the future of the cap that the priority objective is indeed to fight in a structural way the hunger and poverty that we are experiencing in all the member states and in the world. rural areas are available to meet food needs through sufficient and high-quality production, but they will still need to be given the financial and human resources to assume this heavy responsibility.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
your remarks will be forwarded to the competent bodies.
i am sure, mrs lulling, that this detail has not escaped the attention of my colleagues, but i gave the floor to our rapporteur, since she was not allowed to speak during the debate. you know that she has two minutes, so for two minutes the rapporteur is completely free. it was respected.
in accordance with rule 170 (4) of our rules of procedure, a political group has just spoken. the procedure asks whether a speaker wants to speak for, or whether a speaker wants to speak against.
i put to your vote the request for adjournment. (parliament decided to postpone the final vote)
we did not have this information in the session service. so we'll just postpone the final vote. it should be noted that we shall first vote on the amendments.
that is not what the sitting department understood at all, but we will of course follow the rapporteur. so i understand that we are voting on the amendments to the report on turkmenistan, not on your report. and we'll stop before the final vote. before the vote on amendment no 2
mr president, the excellent amendment tabled by my group, which will really help us to weigh in on the human rights situation, will be improved even further if we replace 'the prospect of signing the agreement' with 'the prospect of finalising the ratification process of the agreement', which is the appropriate wording.
that's a legal clarification. are there any colleagues who object to standing up? i don't see 40 colleagues getting up. we are therefore incorporating what mr flautre has said, and i am therefore putting this paragraph in an oral amendment. (the oral amendment was accepted)
i can confirm that for an oral amendment to be adopted, it must be expressed orally, which it was not despite my request. so you understood perfectly.
voting time is closed.
i think mr tannock has a point to make. i'm just reminding you of the rule. it's not like the "catch the eye" procedure. you have to register before the explanations of vote begin, but i'm willing to be flexible.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i warmly greet your parents here. i wish my family could be there, too, but that's not going to be possible. we have just adopted the lehtinen report. this is an essential step in our legislative arrangements, and we very much hope that the commission will listen to parliament on these arrangements. we are well aware that worldwide, technological and organisational developments are leading to an increasing number of subcontractors. that said, the employees of our companies must be better protected and the subcontracting companies themselves must be on an equal footing so that there is a naturally balanced economic game. so, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much hope that the commission and the competent departments in each member state will implement our own-initiative report as soon as possible, so that, i repeat, the situation of employees on the one hand and the balance between subcontracting companies on the other hand can be better satisfied.
mr president, we agree with the indignation at the amount and structure of food prices. the product shares a value of 1 in the farm, ends up at 6 in the supermarket, and the sole shares a value of 1 in africa and ends up at 14 in picard, with the consequences at 8 p.m., ... the supermarkets close and europeans take out the trash. but in the face of this situation at both ends of the chain, which does not make the farmer prosper and makes it difficult to feed the consumer, demanding transparency, denouncing the distribution oligopolies, all this is not enough. there is speculation in geneva on the price of rice, there is speculation in chicago on the price of corn, there is great financial crime, there is an international criminal court. well, at the g20, we need to extend the jurisdiction of the international criminal court to major financial crime, and speculating on human food is a major crime on the same level as bashir in darfur. that's the real signal we can send.
i didn't mean to interrupt your lyrical outburst.
in writing. the use and development of the internet is undoubtedly a source of important progress, particularly in the field of freedom of expression and democracy. the challenge for all is to strike a balance between this freedom, privacy and the necessary security of the internet. this is particularly true of political action. indeed, some people in the opposition or who may have controversial political positions do not have access to the various media and see the internet as a chance to spread their message worldwide. this freedom must not be censored. china, cuba and burma, which are truly totalitarian states, do not hesitate to stifle this freedom of expression by systematically censoring and filtering information, all this in defiance of all democratic principles and freedom. internet filtering in the name of the fight against pornography, child pornography or terrorism is essential, but this vigilance must be strictly controlled and defined.
the explanations of vote are now closed. we're adjourned for the day. it will resume at 3 p.m. with an oral question on the role of culture in the development of european regions.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for accepting our amendments and putting the issue of human rights at the centre of the negotiations with russia. i would ask the council and the commission not to give in on this matter, just as i would ask the rapporteur to support our other amendments on respect for the rights of minorities and chechnya, which have been somewhat forgotten in the report. we also support the critical view towards russia, because even though russia is now sending positive signals, in particular on its willingness to conclude an international agreement on the reduction of nuclear arsenals, which is undoubtedly too costly in this crisis context, it is nevertheless still quite intractable on other issues, in particular on its neighbourhood, blaming the european union for coming to interfere in its sphere of influence. i would remind you that mr lavrov recently criticised in brussels the eastern partnership we set up at the spring summit, just as mr putin reacted negatively to the gas agreement between the european union and ukraine. as you know - and as everyone has said - the georgian question is more relevant than ever and still remains a bone of contention between us and russia, which constantly uses its veto to block the creation of any international peacekeeping force and the very access of our civilian observers to the territories it occupies and controls. it is thus in breach of the six points of the agreement which the union concluded with russia on 12 august, without preventing the daily violence along the administrative line between abkhazia and ossetia. moreover, no one is fooled by the energy dependence of the european union countries on russia, as has been pointed out, and the political price we have to pay. finally, mr president, i hope that in a time of global crisis which does not spare anyone - including russia - unexpected solutions will emerge that will make russia ready to accept a constructive partnership and the union ready to act as a united partner.
mr president, commissioner, i will simply remind you that it was the polar bears on the ice that showed us how global chemical pollution was on a global scale. we found dtt in their fat, and we know very well that this substance is not used on the ice sheet. in any case, i would like to thank the commission for the proposal it has made after the discussion we had here in parliament, because there is indeed an urgent need, because of climate change, to preserve - it should be remembered - the only space safe from human predation. there is, of course - and i quote mrs de keyser - a political emergency because ultimately we are being urged to do something about the arctic. indeed, some of the owners of a part of this continent have an appetite. it is well known that russia, which we have just mentioned, wants to define its borders beyond its maritime zone and extend them to the continental shelf. so there is urgency for us, because they also want to plant their banners and establish military units there, just like canada. what is perhaps missing from your proposal is what we asked for last time, namely an international treaty for the protection of the arctic, which will ensure its permanent protection.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteur in particular for the work she has done and for the result that has finally been achieved. article 13 of the treaty is our foundation, and i would like to stress that member states can guarantee a higher level of protection. these are only minimum standards and - let us be clear - it is impossible to lower the current level of protection in each member state by invoking this new directive. because - to be even more precise - some member states have a very high level of protection, it exists. freedom from discrimination is a fundamental right for everyone living in the union. yet, from the outward appearance, or simply from a person's patronymic, it is clear that there is too much discrimination. as regards disabled people, we must ensure that they are not discriminated against because of their use of wheelchairs, as access to many places is too often difficult. improving european legislation is an essential condition for combating discrimination - and i repeat - it is an essential condition. we need this legislation. our children are traumatized by discrimination from an early age and carry the weight of that discrimination throughout their lives. i would like to draw attention to the multiple discrimination. the commission had failed to include them in its proposal. we therefore propose a precise definition of such discrimination. we must absolutely strengthen legislation to make equal treatment, whatever the differences, a reality. in this connection, we call on the member states to take measures to promote equal treatment and equal opportunities irrespective of religion, disability, age or sexual orientation. and, in conclusion, i would like to add that we hope for a commission proposal in 2010 to put discrimination on the basis of sex on an equal footing, which would put an end to any hierarchy of rights.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, as the permanent rapporteur for the structural funds within cobu, i have two reasons to welcome these reports this evening. the first reason is to recall that the structural funds are the first budget line of the union, and the second reason, tonight with my colleagues, is to underline the speed with which we have worked to provide concrete and diligent responses to the economic crisis, despite a tight budget which we will of course have to renegotiate with the states when the time comes. i would also like to stress that we must have the real will to commit a european loan to accompany these measures. the facilities to improve cash and liquidity flows, to speed up the use of funds and the emergency arrangements, which we have long called for, are going in the right direction to revive our european economy in these times of great uncertainty. it is the sense of europe's action, it is the sense of our europe, to support sectors with high added value and to anticipate, now more than ever, the way out of the crisis by investing in our traditional sectors, but above all in all sectors which can provide answers to the risks of unemployment of our fellow citizens. but - and this is my message for this evening - if parliament has been able to react quickly and effectively, it is now time for the member states to organise themselves to meet the challenges, because the delays which have been noted, and which represent billions of aid, are seen in the administrative inertia of the member states themselves or in their difficulty in determining their strategic objectives or in their refusal to co-finance projects. so everything is ready in europe and, as we say in my country, "to the best of our knowledge, hello", this is for the states.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, together with my colleagues in the adle group we will of course vote on these three reports. we shall vote for them, not because they are entirely satisfactory - we would like, as my colleagues have said, to propose a number of amendments - but because we must act quickly. constanze krehl just called it up. but let me ask you, commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, are we not completely off the mark? we're here with a good temperature, good light. do you know that right now in europe there are 30 million homes with leaks in the roof and moisture in the walls? of course, with the 4% erdf we will be able to remedy this situation for about a million houses. if we do this, commissioner - because i shall ask you in a moment - we will create 250 000 jobs and improve the situation of one million homes. this will save 40 million tons of co2 and reduce each family's energy bill by 450 euros a year. these are figures which i have at your disposal and which have been prepared by a major european organization whose seriousness is particularly well known. that is why the decision we are about to take is so important, not only for the recovery but also for the well-being of our fellow citizens, on one major condition: that the decisions taken by parliament today, in agreement with the commission, be effective in reality, in the weeks and months to come. we heard you, commissioner, earlier. you have told us, and we believe you, that by 30 june next year you will have asked each state to submit a report to the commission. with my colleagues - all of them - from the committee on regional development, we are going to take a bet. in all countries the operational programmes have just been adopted, and we know that most of the managing authorities in these countries will not want the operational programmes to be changed. fifteen months from now, on 30 june, commissioner, do not expect too many staff to prepare the reports, the analysis of what will be done, because not much will have been done if we wait for the member states, the managing authorities and the partners to take action. so we have eight billion available on one side, and thirty million particularly poor housing on the other. what do you need to do? i am going to make a proposal to you, commissioner, and to my colleagues in this respect: that the european commission exceeds its rights and acts firmly - i was almost going to say violently - towards governments and the managing authorities to put them on notice to apply these provisions as quickly as possible. meps love to vote on the texts. it's what we do. but what we love most is that these texts are being applied. we need the commission, we hope the commission will listen to us.
mr president, commissioner, between 2007 and 2013, regional policy will have become the european union's main spending item with €347 billion allocated to the structural funds. will this help to protect our economies from the effects of the global economic crisis, as the commission claims? let me doubt that. firstly, the increase in regional expenditure is penalising some member states, and in particular france. this increase is at the expense of the common agricultural policy, and therefore at the expense of french agriculture, which was, until recent years, the main beneficiary of the cap. the share of structural funds paid to french regions is also steadily decreasing, the bulk of which is destined for eastern europe, ruined by more than 40 years of communism. for example, france, which contributes 16% of the revenue of the european budget, is giving more and more money to brussels but receiving less and less. above all, european regional policy, far from protecting its beneficiaries from the economic crisis, is aggravating it, because it is part of the ultra-free-trade logic of the lisbon strategy. the changes proposed by the commission in the management of the structural funds will therefore not enable our nations to cope with this crisis, which is the result of the ill-considered opening up of frontiers and the deregulation of financial markets. more than ever we must build a new europe, the europe of sovereign nations, based on the three principles of economic and social patriotism, european protectionism and community preference.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the revision of the three regulations governing the structural funds will give the regions of the union greater flexibility in managing and programming the funds made available to them under the european policy of economic and social cohesion. these provisions, while not increasing the funding capacity available to the regions, will allow them to reorient their priorities, so as to concentrate european assistance on projects with the greatest potential for growth and jobs. regions can now benefit from erdf co-financing to invest in energy efficiency in all categories of housing, to develop programmes for thermal insulation or the installation of solar panels in the home. in the face of the slowdown in the european economy, i welcome the new possibility of speeding up the disbursement of aid to the regions and simplifying the rules for its use, with the aim of freeing up cash for the rapid implementation of new projects in the real economy. the states general of the overseas departments, which are responsible for exploring new avenues for the endogenous development of the french overseas departments (dom), must urgently encourage the local authorities in our outermost regions to seize these opportunities in order to maximise the territorial impact of community policies without delay.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues.
that item is closed.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the shipwrecks of migrants off the libyan coast.
for the greens/efa group mr president, who were they? how many were there? where did they come from? were there any children, women, refugees? did the coast guard block the ships? any fishermen come through here? so many unanswered questions. the human toll of the tragedy is unknown, but hundreds have died, joining the thousands of migrants who drowned in the mediterranean. let's have the decency, and we have it tonight, not to blame the weather. hundreds of migrants have been forced into exile under inhuman and highly dangerous conditions. why would you do that? because they are fleeing from desolate regions, because the less dangerous roads are closed to them, and because they have not given up hope of life. yes, it is the immigration controls that are driving migrants to take increasingly dangerous routes to escape the desolation of their countries that are at issue. it is not the announcement of joint patrols by italy and libya in the coming days that has sent ships to europe in a hurry in recent weeks? the european union's obsession with its borders and its determination to shift the burden of its management to third countries that are freedom-loving is indeed deadly. the "security" of the city, the patrols and the barbed wire will not defeat their will to flee. the question is therefore: is europe prepared to accept the consequences of such a choice? it is not, and that is why i ask the commission and the member states: firstly, to make every effort to locate and possibly rescue people missing at sea, and to investigate the circumstances of this shipwreck; secondly, to reaffirm international maritime law which requires assistance to be given to anyone in distress, while the seven tunisian fishermen are still on trial; thirdly, to stop all negotiations on migration issues with countries that do not respect any human rights guarantees; fourthly, to respect the right of every human being to leave any country and to seek international protection in any country. you are right, people missing at sea are not illegal migrants; fifthly, an end to a restrictive visa policy, which is often arbitrary and unfair; and finally, a review of human development in third countries, all the policies of the union, from the predation of mineral resources to agricultural dumping, free trade agreements, the arms trade and complacent cooperation with autocrats.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing community procedures for the establishment of residue limits of pharmacologically active substances in foodstuffs of animal origin, repealing council regulation (eec) no 2377/90 and amending directive 2001/82/ec of the european parliament and of the council and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 of the european parliament and of the council (15079/2/2008 - c6-0005/0009 - 2007/0064 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr avril doyle) (a6-0048/2009).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the revision of legislation on maximum residue levels of pharmacologically active substances in foodstuffs of animal origin is an important initiative for the european commission. it aims to protect the consumer from residues of medicinal products in foodstuffs, while improving the availability of veterinary medicinal products in the community. it is also an important element in the commission's programme for simplifying legislation. the council and parliament reached an agreement on 21 october last year, which is reflected in this common position. so we now have a common position from the council, parliament and the commission. i am very pleased that the commission has been able to accept the amendments from both the european parliament and the council, because they retain the spirit and substance of the original commission proposal. the commission has therefore expressed its full support for the common position in its communication to the european parliament of 8 january this year. the adoption of the common position will now enable this dossier to be brought to a successful conclusion before the end of the parliament's legislative term. the conclusion on the basis of this common position will enable those who deal with food controls and veterinary medicines on a daily basis to do a better job in the interests of animal health and consumer protection in the community. those who deal with this on a daily basis have been waiting for a very long time and very impatiently for the revision of the legislation on maximum residue levels, and i think they have now waited long enough and can all be satisfied that we have now found a solution. i am very aware of the particular importance of the availability of veterinary medicines. therefore, notwithstanding the progress already made in this regard by this regulation on maximum residue levels of pharmacologically active substances, the commission will present in 2010 an assessment of the problems encountered in the application of the veterinary medicinal products directive and, where appropriate, submit new legislative proposals to that end. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs doyle, for her really tireless work in reaching agreement on this important matter. thank you again for your great work, mrs doyle. doyle reportthe commission is aware of the concerns expressed by citizens, veterinarians, member states and the animal health industry regarding the directive laying down the rules for the authorization of veterinary medicinal products, in particular the importance of addressing existing problems linked to the availability of veterinary medicinal products and the use of medicinal products in species for which they are not authorized and any disproportionate regulatory burden hampering innovation, while ensuring a high level of consumer safety with regard to food of animal origin. the commission points out that positive steps are being taken in this direction such as the simplification of the rules on variations of veterinary medicinal products and this review of the legislation on maximum residue limits in food. in addition, in order to address the objectives of consumer safety and animal health protection, competitiveness of the veterinary industry including smes and reduction of administrative burden, the commission will present in 2010 an assessment of the problems in the application of the veterinary medicinal products directive with a view to making, where appropriate, legal proposals.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by hannu takkula, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the education of migrant children (2008/2328 (ini)) (a6-0125/2009).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i welcome this own-initiative report and would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr takkula, and the committee on culture for their work, especially on behalf of my colleague mr ján figel. the european commission shares your view, mr president, that the majority of our member states face significant challenges in their education systems, due to the increasing number of children with a migrant background. education is the central problem in the integration process. the acquisition of skills is essential if we are to secure the future of our citizens in a knowledge society, a society which is increasingly subject to competition. but just as important, the school as a social experiment provides the basis for mutual knowledge and mutual understanding, which is crucial for improving our coexistence. however, there are major problems for students with a migrant background in europe at the moment. migrant children often face a double challenge: on the one hand, insufficient knowledge of the host country's language, and on the other, low socioeconomic status. many migrant children perform worse than native-born students, have higher school dropout rates, and lower college enrollment rates. the report rightly stresses the importance of providing adequate support for the learning of the host country's language, but at the same time promoting the mother tongue and culture of the migrant child. participation in pre-primary education is also important to achieve successful early integration into education systems and to reduce socioeconomic and linguistic disadvantages. teachers should in any case have the necessary qualifications which are important for a multicultural environment. mobility should also be an essential part of teacher education and training. i am very pleased that there is such a broad consensus on these issues. i think we also agree that what's important now is to put the good intentions into action and actually improve the educational opportunities for migrant children. we therefore want to support member states in ensuring a high quality of education for all, while actively preventing the socioeconomic segregation of pupils. we want to support member states in equipping schools to cope with the diverse demands, so that the original challenge of multicultural society and multilingualism becomes an advantage for these schools. of course, the content and organisation of school systems is a purely national competence and the commission has no intention of interfering in any way with this competence. but i must also say that the successful integration of migrant children affects europe as a whole. we have much to learn from each other, and we can learn much from each other. we are sure that your report is an important step forward in showing what can actually be done to support the member states in this area.
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by adina-ioana vălean, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the application of directive 2004/38/ec on the right of citizens of the union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states (2008/2184 (ini)) (a6-0186/2009).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i would like to thank you, madam rapporteur, very sincerely for a remarkable report and i would also like to thank you for the excellent constructive cooperation in a very difficult and sensitive area. the free movement of persons is one of the most fundamental freedoms in the european internal market. the free movement of persons is the basis for the functioning of the internal market and thus for the competitiveness of the european economy. it must be clearly seen that shortcomings in the implementation of community law in this area are in fact a breach of the basic principles on which europe is founded. so this is a very important question. i therefore welcome the report which complements the commission's report on the application of directive 2004/38/ec adopted on 10 december 2008. i am pleased to note that virtually all the findings of the european parliament's report are in line with those of the commission's report. i think we now have a complete picture of the implementation and application of the directive in the member states on the ground and i think it is now time to take real action. the report rightly points out that the responsibility for the proper implementation and application of the directive lies with the member states. however, the commission is called upon to take action in certain areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission attaches great importance to the full and correct application of the directive. it is one of the priorities of the commission's 25th annual report on monitoring the application of community law 2009. the commission will continue to make efforts to ensure that the directive is properly transposed and applied throughout the union. in the coming months we will be holding bilateral meetings with the member states to discuss the very high number of cases of incorrect implementation and application. if satisfactory progress is not made, the commission will not hesitate to initiate infringement proceedings against the member states concerned without delay. the commission intends to offer information and assistance to the member states as well as to the citizens themselves. this will be done, for example, by issuing guidelines on a number of issues which have proved problematic in the implementation or application of the directive, such as the issue of expulsion and the fight against abuses. the guidelines will also cover issues identified as difficult in the parliament's report. the commission will continue to work with the member states at technical level in the expert groups to identify difficulties and clarify questions of interpretation of the directive. i must say, however, that the commission cannot support proposal no 23. proposal no 23 provides for the establishment of teams of experts to carry out on-the-spot visits and for the introduction of a peer review system based on these visits. i must point out that such mutual checks are usually carried out within the framework of the third pillar, but not within community law. the legal and administrative traditions and solutions adopted by the member states to implement the directive mean that the added value of such checks is likely to be quite limited. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. however, the commission will continue to pay particular attention to the dissemination of information on the directive, by distributing an updated and simplified guide to eu citizens and by using the internet to disseminate information. it will also encourage and support member states in informing citizens about their rights through awareness campaigns. let me say that the commission is prepared to accept the vast majority of the proposals contained in parliament's report. i would like to thank the european parliament for its support and its suggestions on how to ensure that this important directive is correctly applied, a directive which is about nothing less than the correct integration of one of the four fundamental freedoms within european integration.
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on concerns about the health effects of electromagnetic fields (2008/2211 (ini)) (a6-0089/2009).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i would like to thank the european parliament and especially you, mrs ries, as rapporteur, for this own-initiative report on electromagnetic fields. in fact, this is a subject - electromagnetic fields - which is very controversial for many european citizens, but also very important for many, including us. given the complexity of the issue and the strong emotions it evokes, it is particularly important to gather the facts very carefully and to evaluate them carefully, appropriately and objectively. for this reason, the commission is constantly monitoring this issue with great attention, as is its mandate in accordance with council recommendation 1999/519. the commission therefore regularly seeks information from the independent scientific committees in order to be up to date on the question of possible sources of danger from electromagnetic fields. the most recent scenihr opinion - the opinion of the relevant scientific committee - on this subject was adopted only in january this year. i would add here that the commission is following developments in the member states very closely, as well as recent court decisions against mobile operators in france, and is closely monitoring the reduction of exposure limits for base stations in the brussels-capital region. i can assure the house that the commission will take the requests made in the resolution very carefully. let me just say a few things: first of all: a framework already exists at eu level, which sets exposure limit values and production standards, as well as a defined level of protection in relation to known effects. secondly, the independent scientific studies to date do not justify a change in the scientific basis of these exposure limits. the commission will continue to monitor closely the state of scientific knowledge in this area in order to determine whether any adjustments to the exposure limit values are necessary. thirdly, the commission sees it as its task to strengthen the dialogue with stakeholders on the potential health effects of electromagnetic fields. in addition, the commission needs to work with the main actors to respond appropriately to public concerns. i would like to emphasize very clearly our desire to promote research in this field to clarify the uncertainties that still exist.
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. it is clear that there is currently little reliable and accepted scientific data on the effects of magnetic fields on the human body. yet these objects are part of our daily lives (mobile phones, wireless technologies) and 80% of citizens feel that they are not sufficiently informed about these potential effects, and 50% of them say they are concerned. so far, the scientific community has been able to express only divided and sometimes contradictory opinions, and the public authorities have not really addressed this problem. i therefore wholeheartedly support this report which calls on the member states to update the threshold values for these fields regularly and which recommends, in accordance with the precautionary principle, that antennas be banned from being installed in risk areas (schools, health institutions). i also support the european commission launching a scientific study to better assess the effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields. public authorities, industry and consumers need to be given accurate information to measure these risks and, if necessary, to take appropriate protective measures. it is also important to formulate recommendations, based on good practice, to better protect the health of citizens, whether they are users of equipment or near relay antennas or high voltage lines.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by ms urszula gacek, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the problems and prospects of union citizenship (2008/2234 (ini)) (a6-0182/2009).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it seems we're all alone here. on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank you and congratulate you on this very important and impressive report. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. many people think that citizenship of the union is an empty phrase and that it means nothing. your report makes it very clear that this is wrong. citizenship of the union is concretized by rights precisely defined in the treaty. i would like to mention them: freedom of movement and residence, the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in local and european elections, the right to consular protection, the right to petition the european parliament, the right to complain to the european ombudsman and the right to write to the european institutions. the commission believes that it is high time that citizenship of the union should be the subject of a concrete political programme. to this end, the commission intends to carry out a comprehensive consultation process to gather concrete information on the problems of union citizenship. this could lead to new proposals which will then form the basis of the commission's sixth report on union citizenship for 2010. but regardless, the commission is also making efforts in everyday practice and will continue to make efforts to ensure that citizens can actually exercise their citizenship rights, every day. in a number of areas where your report, mrs gacek, calls for action by the commission, the commission is already active in ensuring that these rights are strengthened and extended. i would like to mention the commission's action plan on consular protection and i would add that i fully share your view that this is an area where something needs to be done. we have had a very informative debate on this subject here in this house just a few weeks ago, which shows how wide the gap is between claims and reality, particularly in consular rights. the commission has organised information campaigns to inform citizens of their rights and is working to ensure that they can effectively exercise these rights, in particular by adopting the commission's report on the application of the free movement directive by the member states. the forthcoming european parliament elections are one of the priorities of interinstitutional public relations. the commission supports and supplements parliament's campaign to raise awareness of these elections and to encourage citizens to exercise their right to vote by means of appropriate information measures. fortunately, this is the case, and i would like to point out that it is not only the commission which is trying to make citizenship of the union a reality in everyday life. other actors - this parliament, all 27 member states, regional authorities, national parliaments, local authorities and all municipalities in the european union - also play a very important role in shaping effective citizenship of the union. i am pleased that the report by mrs gacek, published just in time for the 2009 european elections, includes some of these very important actors who should all embrace union citizenship in order to make europe tangible to its millions of citizens. i believe we all see it as a common task to ensure that citizenship of the union is not seen as a mere symbol but as a concrete right that can and must be fulfilled in everyday life.
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, multilingual education, polyglot teachers who speak to each child in his or her mother tongue, foreign teachers recruited specifically for them, respect for and even appreciation of the cultures of origin by the school, a minimum knowledge of the language of the host country, not even considered as truly compulsory, this type of recipe does not lead to the integration of migrants. it also leads, paradoxically, to the communitarianisation of our societies, the blurring of identities, the acculturation of all, both migrants and the indigenous inhabitants of the host country. i would advise the rapporteur to look in the zeps - the french suburban priority education areas - where this kind of good feeling is leading, which in fact only manifests the refusal to impose respect for our own cultures, customs and morals in our own countries on those who come to ask for hospitality. our education systems don't have to adapt to other cultures. it is up to the migrant populations to adapt to our cultures if they wish to remain in our countries.
mr president, the ancient greeks had already discussed the issues we are dealing with. in their city associations, they discussed the respective merits of isopoliteia, or identical citizenship, which gave everyone the same rights from one city to another, or sympoliteia, or common citizenship. it will not surprise you that i am strongly in favour of the first of these provisions. european citizenship is largely artificial. the rapporteur regrets above all the lack of awareness among citizens of the rights which it can grant them. but i have noticed that when we ask these citizens what they think, for example about the european constitution or its illegible avatar, the treaty of lisbon, and they say no, then their views are deliberately ignored. that is why these supposedly generous constructions of common citizenship seem to me to be largely hypocritical and i would prefer to replace them with mutual recognition of rights between allied but still sovereign nations.
mr president, the great catholic philosopher chesterton said that the modern world was full of christian ideas that had gone mad. i think the buitenweg report is a perfect example of this. it is a text which starts with good feelings in order to avoid discrimination which could be suffered by, for example, disabled people, and which reaches a true totalitarianism by making a fundamental conceptual error, that is, by failing to distinguish between legitimate differences and discrimination which is unjust. for example, it is natural for a child to have a father and a mother, even if he is adopted. this right must prevail over the right of persons of the same sex to adopt a child. it is natural that there should be distinctions based on nationality. it is natural that the french at home, the british at home, the czechs, the lithuanians are preferred in their own countries to foreigners, just as it is natural that these foreigners are preferred in their own countries to european citizens. these are perfectly legitimate distinctions, which are ignored in this text, which, moreover, destroys the presumption of innocence. this new doctrine of political correctness is a real step towards soft totalitarianism.
mr president, it is indeed a good thing that national socialism is being put on the same footing as communism and included in a general condemnation of the totalitarianisms which bled the 20th century and which, however, were very much in favour of many intellectuals, who were never asked to account and many of whom, moreover, sit in the most prominent positions among these ranks. it is good that a number of amendments which tended to pollute this text have been withdrawn. i do not think, however, that one can, for example, attach an absolutely irrefutable value to the official history of this dark period of our history, nor condemn heterodox minds. it is absolutely astonishing that in france it is a law of communist inspiration, the guessot law, which still frames the historical debate under heavy criminal sanctions. our colleague jacques toubon called it stalinist when it was adopted. well, his friend, mr barrot, the justice commissioner, proposes to extend it to all the countries of the union which do not have it and even to triple the penalties and prison sentences that go with it. it is not with totalitarian methods that one can fight totalitarianism.
mr president, i voted in favour of mrs ries' report on the concerns about the health effects of electromagnetic fields. electromagnetic fields do exist in nature, but the demand for electricity and especially the development of wireless technologies have led to a rapid increase in the exposure of citizens to electromagnetic waves. we must therefore be vigilant, and the european parliament has understood this. as the member for the north-west constituency in france, i can testify to the danger posed by certain very high voltage power lines installed in my constituency, near schools and health facilities, particularly those in the french department of la manche, which put local workers and residents at high risk of exposure to the waves emitted. since scientists disagree on the consequences of electromagnetic fields for the health of our fellow citizens, it is appropriate to be responsible and to apply the precautionary principle. the limit values should therefore be updated regularly in order to ensure an adequate level of protection for citizens. the european parliament has here drawn the attention of the european commission to this matter which rightly concerns the citizens. the european union must do more in this area by establishing a clear policy on electromagnetic waves, by providing more information to citizens on this issue and by adopting binding community legislation.
in writing. every child has the right to education. the integration of migrants, whether they are in a regular or irregular situation, is a priority for us socialists. we do not accept the hierarchy that the right wing in parliament wants to create between migrants. that is why i abstained on the excellent takkula report on the education of migrant children because, as an own-initiative report, we were not able to put forward separate votes to ask for the deletion of paragraphs 5, 8 and 16 which i am absolutely not satisfied with. it is through the education of migrant children that we will make a strong contribution to the integration of all, regardless of their status. it is by creating favourable socioeconomic conditions that we can best help migrants, whether they are legally resident in europe, whether they are destined to be regularised or whether they are finally returning to their countries. we cannot create a status of non-education and ghettoization for children simply because their parents are in an irregular situation. this is clearly contrary to international conventions.
in writing. every child has the right to education. the integration of migrants, whether they are in a regular or irregular situation, is a priority for us socialists. we do not accept the hierarchy that the right wing in parliament wants to create between migrants. that is why i abstained on the excellent takkula report on the education of migrant children because, as an own-initiative report, we were not able to put forward separate votes to ask for the deletion of paragraphs 5, 8 and 16 which i am absolutely not satisfied with. it is through the education of migrant children that we will make a strong contribution to the integration of all, regardless of their status. it is by creating favourable socioeconomic conditions that we can best help migrants, whether they are legally resident in europe, whether they are destined to be regularised or whether they are finally returning to their countries. we cannot create a status of non-education and ghettoization for children simply because their parents are in an irregular situation. this is clearly contrary to international conventions.
in writing. the report by mr gacek on citizenship of the union is a complete fraud. under the guise of strengthening the freedom of movement and residence of community nationals in the european union, it establishes genuine equality of treatment between community nationals and third-country nationals. the report deliberately uses the general term 'citizenship', which unlawfully encompasses the concepts of nationality of a member state and citizenship of the union. the objective, beyond the deliberate confusion, is very clear: to extend the possibility of acquiring the nationality of a member state to any person legally residing in that state under the secondary right of citizenship of the union. the rapporteur therefore introduces a new concept of intra-community migrant, a species in the process of multiplying. it is true that the european parliament is now made up of representatives of the citizens of the union and no longer of the peoples of the member states. it is a serious attack on national identity and cohesion. beware, ladies and gentlemen, as representatives of the undifferentiated citizens of the european union, you will soon become stateless members of parliament. but deep down, that may be what you want.
in writing. the defence of the rights and protection of persons who are victims of discrimination must be a priority for the eu, but it can only be effective and useful if it provides legal certainty for the persons concerned while avoiding a disproportionate burden for the economic actors concerned. in this sensitive area, it was essential to remain vigilant about respecting the division of competences between the european union and the member states and to ensure that parliament strictly adheres to what the legal basis allows. the text as adopted today, while satisfactory in some respects - particularly as regards the fight against discrimination against disabled people - contains vague concepts, legal uncertainties and superfluous requirements which make it legally impracticable and therefore ineffective in its application. i believe that over-regulation cannot be a solution and i have therefore supported the amendment rejecting the commission's proposal, since the existing texts on this subject are not being applied by a number of member states which are the subject of infringement proceedings. in these circumstances, i was in favour of the objective of this directive but was partially dissatisfied, and i chose to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. i have always taken a positive approach in the firm and effective fight against all forms of discrimination and homophobia in accordance with the fundamental values of the european union. the defence of the rights and protection of persons who are victims of discrimination must be a priority for the eu, but it can only be effective and useful if it provides legal certainty for the persons concerned while avoiding a disproportionate burden for the economic actors concerned. in this sensitive area, it is essential to remain vigilant about respecting the division of powers between the european union and the member states and to ensure that parliament strictly adheres to what the legal basis at european level allows. the text as adopted today, while satisfactory in some respects - particularly as regards the fight against discrimination against disabled people - is legally impracticable and therefore ineffective in its application because of the vague concepts it contains, the legal uncertainties it maintains and the superfluous requirements it introduces. in these circumstances, and although i share the aim of the directive, i nevertheless chose to abstain on this text in the final vote.
in writing. since 2000, the european union has been promoting equality in the widest possible sense: equality between men and women, between nationals and foreigners, between the sick and the healthy, between catholics, muslims, buddhists and other religions, equality in access to education, health, sexual orientation, etc. in short, the list is obviously not exhaustive and the next european directives in preparation concern equality in access to social services and housing. this is a new directive which, under the guise of a legitimate fight against discrimination against disabled people, intends to regulate, if not to lock up, practically all areas where freedom of choice, contractual or otherwise, still exists. the pitfalls of such coercive regulation are many. these new european measures will not only increase bureaucracy and european burdens, but they also represent a real danger to other freedoms and fundamental rights, such as freedom of religion, association or expression and freedom of the press. in the name of equality, censors and dictators are here.
in writing. the defence of the rights and protection of persons who are victims of discrimination must be a priority for the eu, but it can only be effective and useful if it provides legal certainty for the persons concerned, avoiding a disproportionate burden for the economic actors concerned. in this area, it is essential to remain vigilant about respecting the division of powers between the european union and the member states and to ensure that parliament strictly adheres to what the legal basis allows. the text adopted today is satisfactory in some respects, particularly as regards the fight against discrimination against disabled people, but the vague concepts it contains, the legal uncertainties it maintains, the requirements it introduces make it legally impracticable and therefore ineffective in its application. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the french delegation, which supported the objective of the directive but was partially dissatisfied, preferred to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. we have had occasion on several occasions to comment on the repeated statements on the subject of 'all totalitarianisms'. our group condemns all forms of totalitarianism. he strongly condemns stalinism. at the same time, it strongly rejects any attempt to trivialize nazism by drowning it in a condemnation of totalitarianism, as the joint resolution before us once again does. that is why our group refuses to take part in the vote on the resolution.
in writing. there is definitely only one nation that never finds favour in the eyes of this parliament, which is usually so quick to approve any economic, commercial or cooperation agreement with cuba, the chinese communist dictatorship or mr erdogan's turkey. the majority of this parliament, which welcomed with enthusiasm the unilateral declaration of independence by kosovo, the historic cradle of the serbian nation, is reaping the bitter fruits of its policy, with the independence of abkhazia and ossetia, supported by russia. moreover, how can russia alone be blamed for the misunderstanding on security issues, when nato's expansion to its borders is naturally experienced by it as a provocation and a threat? of course, there are still challenges. but russia, unlike turkey, belongs culturally, spiritually, geographically to the european space. it is with her that we should have a special relationship.
in writing. unlike turkey, russia is part of the geographical, cultural, spiritual and therefore civilization sphere of europe. as such, it should be an ideal strategic partner in many areas, including energy. but it is also a sister nation that must be supported and not constantly criticized, as the well-meaning europeanists do, especially in this report, which calls the rescue of georgia's russian-speaking minorities a "disproportionate counterattack" that would "question russia's willingness to build with the european union a common security area". the europeans, always ready to side with the united states and their war in iraq, have no lessons to teach the russians. these same "human rights" europeans who, 10 years ago, did not hesitate to support nato in the unspeakable aggression that serbia suffered. we call for the construction of a new europe, a europe free of sovereign nations which establishes relations of privileged status with russia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ries report on the concerns about the health effects of electromagnetic fields. it is essential to ensure a high level of consumer protection, and in particular that of children, without hampering the operation of mobile telephone networks. although there is no scientific evidence to show that the use of mobile phones poses a health risk, this hypothesis cannot be definitively excluded and it is therefore necessary that this issue be included in the framework of the precautionary principle. it is important to update the limit values for the exposure of the public to electromagnetic fields regularly. finally, there is an urgent need for more information on the effects of electromagnetic waves and for a single system of authorizations for the installation of antennas and relays, as the report stresses.
in writing. schools are a fundamental issue that needs to be reaffirmed today. the report entitled 'improving schools: a programme of european cooperation', which i fully supported, is part of this objective. it stresses in particular the need to guarantee equal access for all young european citizens to quality education, enabling the acquisition of sound skills and knowledge. it also called for more financial support for schools in difficulty. alongside basic knowledge, the resolution also rightly stresses the importance of learning foreign languages from an early age, as well as the opportunity to receive artistic, cultural and physical education, which are essential for personal development. it also recommends greater mobility and exchanges in the school environment and cites the excellent european comenius programme in this respect, noting, however, the need to make it more visible and more accessible. the resolution also encourages, in strict compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, the establishment of modernised school curricula taking account of technological developments and the opportunities they offer.
today, ladies and gentlemen, is a special day for me, because after ten years of good and loyal service, this was my last presidency here in brussels. it is with a little pinch of my heart that i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m.)
mr president, the islamophobic overtones in the speeches of a leader of the populist far right in the netherlands, the increase in attacks on the roma in the czech republic, the unspeakable, unsustainable remarks of the iranian president on the creation of a racist government in palestine, alluding to the creation of the state of israel at a un conference on racism, which is primarily intended to promote tolerance and diversity. how could our parliament, beyond its indignation, fail to send a strong and symbolic message to promote this diversity, the necessary tolerance in a globalised world, by strongly condemning such remarks? how can our parliament not ask the european council and the commission to address a solemn warning to those states which subscribe to this aggressive logic, even verbal, because history has taught us too often that acts follow, alas, too closely after such speeches? how, during this part-session, mr president, can our parliament remain silent in the face of such racist and xenophobic attitudes in a context of economic crisis where the withdrawal of peoples into themselves, protectionism, is unfortunately sprouting like seeds in spring?
mr president, as a member of the committee on budgets, i went with mr costas botopoulos on 14 and 15 march to the regions of the peloponnese most affected by the fires of summer 2007. we have noted, to our great surprise, that the promised €89.7 million from the european union solidarity fund has not yet reached these territories. we therefore solemnly call the commission's attention to this matter and would like to know where the obstacles to the implementation of the decisions taken by the budgetary authority lie. why has this aid, which was voted on several months ago, still not had a significant effect in these regions where the need for european solidarity is becoming more and more acute? beyond the commission's ex post control, we would like to have an explanation from the greek government on the use of this european aid. there is a real emergency, human and economic. and two years is just too long.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in september 2007 the european commission presented its third energy package on the functioning of the internal market. the debate soon turned to the important but not unique question of the separation of energy production and transmission. the question of ownership of networks, which was not sufficiently addressed in my view at first reading, seems to have been taken more seriously. the coexistence of different options, including the famous third way, strengthened and clarified, seems to me to be a good thing, which is obvious because i was a co-author of this amendment. but, fortunately, to reduce this third package to ownership unbundling would be a mistake. the advances are real: more rights for consumers, more power for regulators, more cooperation between regulators, 10-year investment plans, more transparency to facilitate the development of renewables, more technical cooperation between grid operators, and also tools to consume better, such as smart meters. this is a new step towards european solidarity. the 'third country' clause, although it seems less sensational than the one originally drafted by the commission, explicitly states that a member state has the right to refuse certification to an operator if this endangers the security of its energy supply or the security of supply of another member state. perhaps a regret about the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators; we would have liked to have created a strong, independent agency, capable of making decisions without the approval of our body. we bumped into each other at the famous meroni stop. let us not be fooled: the construction of a genuine european energy policy will still require many advances, particularly institutional ones. security of supply, the fight against climate change, market regulation - all these objectives should be pursued in a pragmatic and not dogmatic approach. what european citizens want is not the application of economic theories but concrete evidence that open markets bring benefits: freedom to choose their supplier, reasonable, stable and predictable prices. i thank my colleagues, our dear commissioner and the council for this constructive work.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr vice-president and mr kallas, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to thank you, mr vice-president kallas, and your colleagues from the commission for the attention you have paid to the parliamentary work on the discharge procedure for the implementation of the 2007 budget of the european commission and the executive agencies. i would like to thank the administration for their support. i would also like to commend the immense work done by the european court of auditors under the leadership of its president, vítor caldeira, with limited resources in view of the scale of the task to be accomplished. a few words about the context of this dump. 2007 is the first year of the new multiannual financial framework 2007-13 in which many new rules have been implemented. 2007 was also the last discharge procedure for the present commission, which, at the beginning of its mandate, had promised - you remember, commissioner, through your president - to obtain a positive declaration of assurance from the european court of auditors. for the last 14 years, the court has issued a negative declaration on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions for the vast majority of expenditure, considering it to be affected to varying degrees by significant errors, even though, fortunately, the consolidated accounts and administrative expenditure are the subject of a positive declaration of assurance. finally, 2007 is the last discharge vote before the european parliament elections. in this particular context, and beyond the many reservations on the management of community funds contained in the draft resolution, i wanted to try, through my report, to analyse the discharge procedure and to make a contribution to the difficult path which must lead us to a positive declaration of assurance, while being well aware of the limit of the year. and that is why i look forward to hearing the commission's position, the political groups and my colleagues in parliament. at the end of the work on this matter, i have a mixed feeling between the conviction that things are improving, but not enough and too slowly, and the fact that, at the same time, it is not tenable to remain in a situation where, for fourteen years, the european court of auditors has not given positive assurance and where the european parliament still votes on discharge. the citizen will come to believe that parliament is not fulfilling its role of control properly. i therefore propose, in view of the seriousness of the situation, that an interinstitutional conference be held as soon as possible, involving all those involved in the management and control of community funds, in order to begin a comprehensive discussion on the reforms needed to obtain a positive declaration of assurance as soon as possible. i look forward to hearing the reasons why certain political groups oppose this approach. particular attention should also be paid to the role of the member states, which manage about 80% of the union budget. it is in this shared management that we have the greatest problems. in this respect, i regret that the council is empty, and the current political difficulties in the czech republic are not sufficient to explain why there is no continuity in the political presence of the council, except to interpret this absence and silence as indifference, or worse, disinterest. as regards the report on shared management by the member states, i would stress the role of national management declarations, but also the role of the annual audit summaries, which are all elements that can help to achieve a positive sda. in addition, and in accordance with article 248 of the treaty, i propose that cooperation between the national audit institutions and the european court of auditors be stepped up in the area of shared management. i suggest that consideration be given to the issue by the national audit institutions, as independent external auditors and in compliance with international auditing standards, of national audit certificates on the management of community funds which would be provided to the governments of the member states for production under the discharge process in accordance with an appropriate interinstitutional procedure to be set up. finally, mr president, i would like to stress my surprise at the fact that the consolidated annual accounts are presented with negative equity capital of eur 58 billion, and i suggest that consideration be given to the creation of a pension fund to outsource the eur 33.5 billion of liabilities to staff. i conclude by saying that i believe it is time to reform our system, and i sincerely believe that this reform must be achieved through a thorough and sincere dialogue between all the budgetary actors.
mr president, in this period of economic recession it was important that the european union should continue to show solidarity with the developing countries. in 2007, the european community and its member states together contributed 60% of total development aid, making the eu the world's largest donor. the european development funds help to combat poverty, while promoting economic development and democracy. i am therefore pleased that the acp countries have been allocated a budget of eur 23 billion for the period 2008-2013 under the 10th edf, which is almost double the amount foreseen for the 9th edf. the court of auditors concluded in its report that the accounts of the seventh, eighth and ninth edfs were, in general, fair, legal and regular. the record levels of contract execution and payments from the edf implementation are to be welcomed. however, i also note that further progress is still needed to strengthen the control and monitoring mechanism as there is still a significant level of error affecting certain transactions. similarly, there is too often a high risk in budget support and i think that there is a need to assess these risks better. in this respect, i share the view that budget support should only be granted if the recipient country has the capacity to manage the funds in a transparent, accountable and efficient manner. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the european development fund is a very good one. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, the representatives of the court, but also all the commission staff who did an excellent job on the spot, and i regret, of course, the absence of the council, and in particular of the czech presidency.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i think the case of romania and bulgaria deserves to be discussed, but we are really in an extremely serious situation. i would like to thank the rapporteurs of the political groups, all the speakers, and in particular the committee on budgetary control, for their conclusions, and i would like to conclude on a number of points. firstly, in the budget we have no fraud. secondly, we have a lot of errors, and we have a lot of errors for two reasons: firstly, our regulations are too complex and, as a result, the final beneficiaries have a lot of difficulty applying too complex regulations and make mistakes that are not so serious. and the second reason is that the european court of auditors applies a very low threshold of 2% for all sectors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. so, things go wrong, we say, but because we're all responsible. the commission is responsible for not keeping its promise and thank you, commissioner, for taking stock of the proposals for the next mandate. the council is responsible because it is not interested: it is not there. the member states are responsible because they apply the regulations with insufficient rigour. the european court of auditors is responsible because it has to ask questions about its audit methods, and in particular about the rates of service; it is up to the commission, not the commission or parliament, to set the thresholds of significance. parliament is responsible because it must be clear about the current imperfections and accept the reforms. in short, i think we have a set of shared responsibilities. the synthesis is made at the end of this term. we hope that this reform will be carried out so that in the next financial perspective we will finally have a positive declaration of assurance and, if we have a negative declaration of assurance, we will have a negative vote in parliament, so that there will be political consistency between the bodies which have to decide on budgetary control.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 april 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by gunnar hökmark, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council (euratom) directive establishing a community framework for nuclear safety (com ((2008) 0790 c6-0026/2009 2008/0231 cns)) (a6-0236/2009).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, my group fully supports the objective of this directive, which is to establish a community framework to maintain and ensure the continuous improvement of the safety of nuclear installations in the european union. our parliament has always stressed the urgent need for clear and rigorous legislation and for concrete measures at community level in the fields of nuclear safety, radioactive waste management and decommissioning of nuclear installations. our discussions have raised the question of training and knowledge. it is essential that europe, which has nuclear expertise, should preserve this knowledge, in particular by ensuring the training and qualification of plant safety inspectors. finally, i am pleased that the committee on industry has accepted an amendment to the legislative resolution to invite the european commission to consult the group of experts in accordance with article 31 of the treaty. i repeat, we demand transparency, and we want clear and rigorous legislation. i would like to thank mr hökmark, our rapporteur.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 april 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the joint discussion of:- the commission statement - combating deforestation and forest degradation to combat climate change and biodiversity loss, and- the report by caroline lucas, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the obligations of operators who place timber and timber products on the market (com (2008) 0644 - c6-0373/2008 - 2008/0198 (cod)) (a6-0115/2009).
the joint discussion is closed. i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 103 (2) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. see minutes of the sitting. the vote on this motion for a resolution will take place on thursday, 23 april 2009. the vote on the report by mrs caroline lucas will take place on wednesday, 22 april 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the fight against illegal timber trade must, of course, be a priority, because of its consequences on ecosystems and the unfair competition it causes for the 'legal' players in the forest-wood-paper sector. however, if we impose excessive constraints, particularly in terms of traceability, on the operator who places wood on the market, this will result in a loss of competitiveness for our companies without reducing illegal logging, which will be redirected to other markets. it would be an illusion to think that only very restrictive european legislation would solve the problems of corruption or government deficits, as is often the case in countries where this illegal activity is practised. i also think that this report goes too far in calling into question the commission's original proposal, which is in the interests of the operators. it is therefore not appropriate to call into question the certification systems set up by the professionals, to exclude the professional organisations and the control organisations financed by operators in the sector, or to abolish the national authority responsible for designating the control organisations. i believe that we must keep the professionals in the sector at the heart of the system and avoid imposing on them too heavy administrative procedures.
the agenda calls for the report by raül romeva i rueda, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy (com (2008) 0721 - c6-0510/2008 - 2008/0216 (cns)) (a6-0253/2009).
mr president, thank you for sète. there are indeed fisheries resources, a new control system which we are discussing tonight, but above all there are fishermen, their profession, their lives, and fishing is the hardest profession in the world. he is not a civil servant or a member of parliament, and that shapes free men, but now desperate, hence the revolts of tuna fishermen in the mediterranean, in sète, in grau-du-roi or angry fishermen in boulogne, france. we have been regulating their fishing since 1983, 26 years. but, as early as the treaty of rome, articles 32 to 39 on the cap also concerned them, and the very first community regulation on fisheries was in 1970. we have been legislating for 39 years: on the shock of the arrival of spain in 1986, of denmark in 1993, on gillnets, driftnets, fishermen, tacs, quotas, aid, fleet restructuring, modernisation. we are legislating on sanctions, biological rests, stocks, discards, surveillance systems, people, species, cod, whiting, bluefin tuna, and even international agreements. and now, the recreational fishing! and it still doesn't work. the blue europe is becoming greyer. why would you do that? because fisheries are part of the global food challenge of the 21st century, they will have to be managed on a global level. like the financial crisis, the pandemics, the climate, immigration, high crime, fish are globalists. they respect neither frontiers nor community law. europe is too small to regulate fisheries resources and from peru to japan, from moscow to dakar, ireland and valencia, we will need regulations on the global co-ownership of fisheries resources. that is the direction, mr president, that brussels should help to take.
well, after this tidal wave of verbal abuse, i'd like to give the floor to mr. stevenson.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 april 2009.
the agenda calls for the report by cornelis visser, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures (com (2008) 0324 - c6-0282/2008 - 2008/0112 (cns)) (a6-0206/2009).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 april 2009.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by mr busuttil, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on a common immigration policy for europe: principles, actions and instruments (2008/2331 (ini)) (a6-0251/2009).
member of the commission. − on behalf of the european commission, i would like to congratulate ms. simon busuttil for the important report he prepared. this report concerns a central topic related to the continuing development of the european union, namely a common immigration policy. as indicated in the report itself, the immigration pact adopted by the european council last year served as a new impetus for a common policy in the area of immigration and asylum. we now need to ensure that the commitments outlined in this plan are put into effect. the commission will next month propose means of monitoring the implementation of this pact by means of annual reports by the commission. these reports serve to prepare an annual debate in the european council on immigration and asylum policy with effect from the year 2010. the definition of the general objectives of the common policy as set out in this pact will continue to be drawn up in a multiannual programme, namely the stockholm programme to be adopted later this year under the swedish presidency. the busuttil report provides the commission with very useful material for the contribution that the commission intends to make by means of a communication to be adopted before next summer. i would like to emphasise the general convergence of our ideas. in several parts where the busuttil report calls on the commission to take action, i would like to say that the commission has already engaged actively, for example, in relation to the development of facilities for temporary and circular immigration, improving the collection and analysis of data, disseminating information both on the realistic opportunities and risk of illegal immigration and on cooperation with third countries. i wanted to mention here one area where the commission has already taken action. busuttil expressed concern and this is the area of solidarity between member states on immigration matters. how the on. in his speech, mr busuttil reiterated that the events in the mediterranean in recent days had once again highlighted the serious problems and pressures facing certain member states. i want to assure you on. the commission is committed to finding solutions to help those member states which are under particular pressure from immigration. here i can mention three examples of measures already taken or soon to be taken in this respect. the dublin regulation will be amended in such a way as to make it possible to suspend transfers to those member states under particular pressure, the european asylum support office to be set up to provide support to those same member states and the funds available to member states for the purposes of internal and voluntary redistribution of migrants.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 april 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the monitoring of the budgetary implementation of the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) in 2007 (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/findbyprocnum.do?lang=en&procnum=ini/2008/2206") (a6-0181/2009).
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank parliament for giving us the opportunity to comment on the report on the control of budgetary implementation of the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) for 2007, and to extend our thanks to the rapporteur, mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, for the very valuable report that she initiated and prepared. we can, overall, concur with the findings and recommendations of the report, which are fully in line with the views of the commission on how best to use financial assistance for the western balkans and for turkey. the commission acknowledges the late launch of ipa 2007 programmes because of the late adoption of the legal framework for ipa. i can assure you, however, that the commission made all efforts to limit the delay of implementation on the ground, and that preparation of management structures and detailed project design were pushed ahead all through 2008. within this framework the commission will ensure that the impact of ipa will become visible in the beneficiary countries. allow me to elaborate on some of the issues raised in the report. as regards the balance between political criteria and transposition of the acquis communautaire, the commission has already increased the allocations for projects in the area of the political criteria in ipa 2008 in all countries, and will continue to do so gradually. however, in the face of the current financial crisis, we will also need to strike an appropriate balance in the 2009 and 2010 programmes between continued support for political reforms and financial assistance to help the countries mitigate the consequences of the economic downturn. in this regard the report rightly identifies the challenges generated by the financial crisis and the need for an ec response. to that end, the commission has put together an ipa crisis response package of about eur 250 million at the end of 2008 with the aim of leveraging some eur 600 million in loans from international financial institutions. measures will focus on support to private sector smes, energy efficiency investments, and support to investments and infrastructure under national ipa programmes in close coordination with international financial institutions. the commission also fully concurs with the need to establish the decentralised management system as a step to promoting ownership and responsibility of candidate countries and potential candidates. guidance and assistance is being given to them in order for these countries to build the required public management structures and public financial control systems. according to the principles of ipa, environmental protection, good governance, civil society development, gender equality and non-discrimination are all cross-cutting issues and are an integral part of project design. civil society organisations are now more actively involved in the development and the initiation of projects. in 2008 the commission launched the civil society facility as a tool for promoting civil society development and advancement of regional cooperation, for which an indicative budget of eur 130 million is earmarked for 2008-2010. the commission also shares the rapporteur’s views as regards the importance of education, regional and cross-border cooperation and gender equality, to name but a few issues. the services of the commission have fully taken on board the recommendations of parliament and we look forward to reviewing progress with you during our regular rendezvous where we have the opportunity to discuss the financial assistance strategies and their implementation. this will allow the further enhancement of the ongoing dialogue between our respective institutions.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 april 2009.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by neena gill, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the effective enforcement of judicial decisions in the european union: transparency of debtors' assets (2008/2233) (ini)) (a6-0252/2009).
member of the commission. − mr president, i am very pleased to have this opportunity to discuss parliament’s concerns regarding the issue of debt recovery abroad. i would also like to thank ms gill for the report. what is at stake? both parliament and the commission agree that the problems of cross-border debt recovery may constitute a serious obstacle to the free circulation of payment orders within the european union and may impede access to justice. furthermore, this is key for the survival of small businesses in the current economic climate. against this background and in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, what should be the community objectives? the european union has an impressive set of legal measures to ensure access to justice in cross-border cases and to facilitate the free circulation of civil and commercial decisions within the union. however, there is no doubt – as stated in the hague programme on mutual recognition adopted by the european council – that it would in fact be much easier to enforce judgments within the european union if it were possible to obtain accurate information on debtors’ financial positions. the commission published a green paper on the transparency of debtors’ assets in march 2008, and all the replies – including a summary – can now be accessed by consulting the public web site. most of the respondents agreed with the need for measures at community level to increase the transparency of debtors’ assets, though views differ as to what can be done in practice. i am grateful to parliament for presenting such a detailed response to the green paper. the report is rather sceptical of the ideas put forward in the green paper, believing that the main problem is that of recalcitrant debtors who are unscrupulous. the report is also very concerned about the data-protection/privacy issues related to obtaining information about people’s financial situation. the commission is also committed to protecting privacy and the personal data of citizens. the report instead calls for the adoption of national directories of foreign lawyers working in other member staes as a way to help creditors and suggests a community provisional measure. i would like to inform parliament that improving the practical enforcement of judgments will be a high priority of the commission in the future stockholm programme in the area of justice, freedom and security for the period 2010-2014 that the commission will present in 2009. however, the commission has not yet programmed any specific legislative measure in terms of follow-up to its green paper. finally, in the light of the first results of the consultation, the commission believes that this proposal – that is, to draw up a manual of national enforcement laws, to increase access to commercial and public registers, to improve cooperation between enforcement authorities and to create a compulsory assets declaration by the debtor – will go some way towards fulfilling our objectives. in this respect, of course, careful consideration will be given by the commission to parliament’s resolution on the different issues incorporated in this report.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 april 2009.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by mairead mcguinness, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the deliberations of the committee on petitions during the year 2008 (2008/2301 (ini)) (a6-0232/2009).
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to express my appreciation for the work of mrs mcguinness on this report, which i know she did in difficult circumstances. she has succeeded in illustrating the great variety of the work of the committee on petitions and i would like to reconfirm, as i have no doubt she expects, the commission’s willingness to cooperate in all ways we can with the work of the committee. i would just like to pick up on two of the points she makes in the brief presentation of the report. mrs mcguinness, first of all you underline the importance of direct contact between parliament and the everyday, very real concerns of citizens who petition you. i agree, and i should know. you have dealt with nearly a hundred petitions coming from malta since 2004, which is a rather high rate when taken pro rata to the population. some of these petitions are common to many other member states as well, but many were quite specific to malta. this demonstrates the useful direct contact with the citizen that the committee provides. in addition it is also true to say that a good collaboration with the national authorities and the organisation of fact-finding missions are definitely useful ingredients for your work. besides agreeing on the importance of working directly with citizens, the second thing i would like to pick up on is the general issue of fundamental rights. they crop up in many places in your report, whether about nationality and related rights, individual and family rights or the right of property, and as you know it very often happens that people who petition parliament about their fundamental rights end up being disappointed. this is because such rights, more often than not, turn out to be outside the scope of community law, as you have just rightly pointed out. to use your own words, there is a lot to be done to separate the wheat from the chaff, those concerns which we can work on and those on which we cannot. my wish, my very sincere wish, is that your report will help people to see this clearly and realistically. with these two comments, which i am sure will be taken in the spirit in which they are intended, i would just like to say that i wish the rapporteur every success and thank her again for this report.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 april 2009.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by anna záborská, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the integrated approach to gender equality in the work of committees and delegations (2008/2245 (ini)) (a6-0198/2009). the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
women are in the majority in this house tonight. i want to report it. the point is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 april 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by eva lichtenberger, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the green paper on the future of ten-t policy (2008/2218 (ini)) (a6-0224/2009).
member of the commission. − mr president, since the trans-european transport network policy was established 15 years ago, it has contributed significantly to the functioning of the internal market and to economic, social and territorial cohesion. it now needs to be adjusted to new challenges. the green paper on the ten-t policy review addresses these challenges and proposes measures to tackle them at both the network planning and the project implementation stages. the commission appreciates very much that the european parliament is following this revision process from the outset, as reflected in this resolution. this underlines the determination of both institutions to develop a future-oriented ten-t policy. there is a high degree of conformity between our proposals and the objectives and calls set out in ms lichtenberger’s report as adopted by the committee on transport: that is, a more integrated and coherent network approach is necessary, in which intermodal connections such as rail connections to ports and airports and intermodal terminals, the link between long-distance and urban transport systems as well as interoperability must be strengthened so as to improve the basis for efficient, safe and high-quality services for passengers and for freight transport. the commission also shares the view set out in the report that – in particular in the freight sector – it is vital to facilitate co-modal chains in which waterborne and rail transport play an important role and intelligent transport systems help to optimise infrastructure use. in the draft report, the transport committee has chosen option three, a dual layer consisting of a core and a comprehensive network. by supporting this option, parliament confirms the need to combine traditional transport infrastructure policy with an appropriate consideration of new conditions and circumstances; the need for more flexibility and responsiveness to changing situations and more openness for the identification and support of infrastructure measures resulting for transport service requirements; and the economic and environmental challenge to promote a coordinated improvement of transport corridors through a series of small infrastructures and its projects. we note that, after the vote on the draft report by the transport committee, an alternative resolution has been proposed which supports option two, a single-layer network with priority projects or a priority network only, and therefore without a comprehensive network. this is, as we see it, in contradiction with some other points of the draft resolution. i would also like to recall on this occasion the advantages and disadvantages of the comprehensive network. while being too large to allow for clear priority-setting and the focus of community instruments to stimulate its implementation, it contributes to ensuring the ten-t access function and to facilitating cohesion. it has also proved to be vital as a reference framework for various transport policy actions and legislation: in particular, interoperability in the railway sector and road safety. elimination of the comprehensive network would therefore have some perverse effects. on the network implementation side, we fully agree with the view set out in the report that member states have a crucial role in deciding, planning and financing transport infrastructure. sufficient financial resources are needed under the ten-t budget and coordination of territorial development objectives and ten-t policy need to be enforced, whereas public/private partnerships have to be further promoted. the commission also underlines that ten-t investment is key to sustainable economic development and thus is an essential way of helping to overcome the current crisis. to conclude, we are very grateful for the motion for a resolution on the future of the trans-european transport networks policy. we would like to thank the transport committee for its constructive debate on it, and in particular ms lichtenberger for her comprehensive work. it will constitute a valuable contribution to the next steps of the process in the debates with the other institutions.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 april 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
i have to thank our small but attentive audience for their presence. i also have to close what is certainly my last night's sitting chair. (the sitting was closed at 11.45 p.m.)
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on credit rating agencies (com ((2008) 0704 - c6-0397/2008 - 2008/0217 ((cod)) (a6-0191/2009),- the report by renate weber, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directives 77/91/eec, 78/855/eec and 82/891/eec and council directive 2005/56/ec as regards reporting and documentation obligations in the event of mergers or divisions (com ((05762008) - c6-0330/2008 - 2008/0182 ((cod)) (a6-0247/2009), and the report by peter skinner, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2007/138/ec on direct business reinsurance and access to financial services (com (a03-0231/2008) and amended by the committee on economic and monetary affairs) (com (2006-0146-0131 (a04)).
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report on rating agencies which i have been asked to draw up has been a particularly interesting one to draw up, and i am particularly pleased that we have been able to reach agreement with the council and the commission so that this report has a chance of being adopted at first reading. the analysis of the various causes of the financial crisis has shown that there is a need and an urgency to regulate credit rating agencies. the commission's proposal for a regulation has been examined very carefully by parliament to ensure that european regulation is both exemplary, effective and pragmatic. the recent conclusions of the g20 have further strengthened this determination. the compromise reached by the commission, the eu presidency and parliament is in line with the guidelines sought by parliament on the essential points of this regulation: the scope of application, the rating of third countries and the prevention of conflicts of interest. but i am particularly pleased that this text has laid the foundations for european supervision in the spirit of the de larosière report. parliament has insisted that the cesr should be the single entry point for the registration of agencies. we knew that in the present state of the law it was not possible to do much more, but we have thus laid the foundations for this european supervision in the future. in the coming months, the commission will propose a legislative initiative to implement the guidelines of the de larosière report, in order to create an effective and coordinated european supervision. pending the commission's legislative initiative, regulation will be carried out temporarily, under the coordination of cesr, by a college composed of representatives of the competent authorities of the member states, with the legal force of decisions being ensured by the competent authority of the place where the agency has its seat. i would like to say today how much parliament appreciated the very constructive and cooperative attitude of the czech presidency in the second phase of the negotiations. we have therefore been able, through a clever work of thought, to develop a number of rules which should make it possible to ensure this necessary transparency and to remedy the difficulties and dysfunctions which have resulted from the lack of regulation of the rating agencies. this is therefore a very satisfactory result, and that is why a comprehensive amendment will be tabled in parliament tomorrow, incorporating the text agreed by the commission, parliament and the czech presidency, i.e. the member states. i believe that in this way the european parliament, the commission and the presidency will have shown that, in the face of a crisis of unprecedented proportions, the european institutions have been very responsive. i hope that in the same spirit the other provisions of this financial package, and in particular the recast of the directive on the capital adequacy of banks, also known as basel ii, can be adopted. at a time when europeans are questioning the effectiveness of europe, it seems to me essential that we can prove that europe is there in the face of the crisis.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to say that i fully agree with mr mitchell's statement. we're not in the timing, we're not in the rhythm. i would point out to him, however, that the same mistake should not be made with regard to the french president as the french sometimes make with regard to mr gordon brown. it is not talk about action that guarantees the effectiveness of action. on the crisis itself, it is clear that for us, the crisis is not the starting point of finance. it's rooted in social and environmental issues. but it combines with the financial cycle, which is that when things are going well, we take risks, and when things are not going well, we think that maybe we should regulate a little. we're in that phase where we have to regulate, and we have to regulate hard. we need to regulate at the level of the single market, which means that we need much more centralised regulation at the european level. that's what guides us in our voting choices. we are in full agreement with the gauzès report and the progress it has made, and we have been calling for more centralised regulation and supervision at european level for years, and the first step taken with the cesr seems to us to be quite right. but despite mr skinner's efforts - and here we agree exactly with mr mitchell's criticism - we regret that the governments have not understood. we do not agree with the compromise which is being proposed and which rejects the system of group supervision. i think that such a method will lead to new disasters. so we will vote against the skinner report, not against mr skinner's work itself, but against the compromise imposed by governments.
madam president, the reports by mr gauzès on credit rating agencies, by mrs weber on reporting obligations in respect of mergers and acquisitions, and by mr skinner on the pursuit of insurance or reinsurance activities contain useful provisions, but they cannot be described as measures to combat the financial crisis. the crisis we are experiencing is obviously of a completely different scale and cannot be solved simply by these technical and ad hoc measures. what is needed to solve the terrible crisis we are experiencing? first of all, we must break with the dogmas on which you have operated up to now, that is to say, the dogmas which believe in the beneficence of the international division of labour, the free movement of people, goods and capital. the free movement of goods, which has put european workers in competition with workers in countries which, like communist china, are the paradise of the most cynical capitalism, where workers have no right to strike, no trade union freedoms, no adequate pensions, no social protection, and have absolutely ridiculous wage levels. but it's not the only state in this situation. the free movement of people, which has led us, which has led you, to accept and still advocate, as the only alternative for future generations, a policy of mass immigration, the disastrous results of which are now clearly visible. and finally, the free movement of capital, which was the trigger for the crisis, since it allowed the crisis in the mortgage market and the acquisition of individual property in the united states of america - which was a purely circumstantial crisis, which should have remained confined to the american market - to contaminate virtually all our economies and ruin our savers, our employees, our entrepreneurs. so we must free small and mediumsized enterprises from the shackles of taxation and bureaucracy; simple rules are needed to ensure that monetary values actually correspond to the real industrial or service heritage; we must have an investment policy, but a profitable investment policy. these are some of the essential measures which we would like to see taken by the governments of the member states as part of those national policies which have proved their superiority in terms of responsiveness.
madam president, on solvency ii, this is a reform that was initiated long before the crisis and that the crisis has brought to light. as legislators we hesitated: should we have concluded this agreement at first reading? finally, the negotiators' determination has led to a compromise which i believe has at least two merits: first, to force the insurance sector to better assess its risks, which until now has been the subject of relatively old mechanisms and probably not adapted to what has become the reality of the insurance sector, and secondly to emphasize the need for supervisory mechanisms to adapt to what has become the insurance companies, both in their multitude of products and offers to the consumer, but also in their transnational presence. as legislators we have been keen to take account of the reality of this market, that is to say a market where, for example, in some countries there are life insurance schemes which represent a significant part of this sector and where, in the light of the crisis, we had to take account of what procyclicality means when it applies to the insurance sector. we also had to ensure that the adoption of this legislation did not upset the architecture of the insurance market and, in particular, allowed the structures of mutual societies to find their place within this legislation. but of course this is only a first step, and i would like to mention six points on which we must start work immediately tomorrow. the first is, of course, to take account of the conclusions of the jacques de larosière report and the need to ensure that there is equality and harmonious conditions between the various colleges of supervisors and, to this end, to strengthen the european authority responsible for the supervision of insurance companies. secondly, as many colleagues have said, we must set up this so-called support group, and on this point i do not share alain lipietz's opinion. of course, we would have preferred to have had the support of the group, but how can we fail to understand that in countries where 80 or 100% of the insurance sector is in the hands of foreign companies, without a clear legal basis, it is now difficult to accept this mechanism? we must make progress on this. the third step for tomorrow is to harmonize what we do here with what is happening with the pension funds. how can we imagine that insurance requires improved solvency, and not ask the question for pension funds? this is an absolutely major challenge. the fourth area of work for tomorrow is the installation, the creation, the establishment of a deposit guarantee mechanism, such as we have today in the banking sector, and which is still lacking in the insurance sector. fifthly, the marketing of insurance products and ensuring that the way in which insurance intermediaries offer products to insured persons takes account of their interests and protection needs. finally, the transposition into this sector of what we are going to put in place for the banking sector, namely the retention mechanisms for securitisation. on this basis, i hope that tomorrow we will be able to take account of the lessons of this crisis and ensure that the european citizens have an insurance sector which is a real guarantee for them to... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, our rapporteur friends are not at fault, but i think the commission's proposals are very late and not up to date. to prevent a new crisis, we obviously need to be much more ambitious and more determined. first, the rules. we must harmonize our legislation, and the strongest signal would undoubtedly be to have a european regulator. now you're talking to me. as far as rating agencies are concerned, we must create european agencies whose independence is guaranteed and put an end to the scandal of rating agencies rating companies that pay them. we must also have a tax system for hedge funds which penalizes all short-term financial transactions. finally, there are very simple steps to be taken in tax havens. we must ban from europe any bank which does business with tax havens or refuses to cooperate. that's all for now. but i think we need to go further, and i want to give two ways here. the first is that we must, it seems to me, address the question of the enlargement of the euro area and the integration of new members. this political gesture would probably be as strong as that of german reunification in its day, and it would mark intra-european solidarity and strengthen the weight of our union. finally, we must move towards economic, budgetary and monetary integration, towards fiscal harmonization, which is the only way to combat fiscal dumping in europe. all this is necessary, but what our fellow citizens are expecting first, and i would like the commission to hear this, is that we act to respond to the crisis. our fellow citizens are still waiting for a real european recovery plan and, for example, a large loan. they are still waiting for europe to really support our smes, to really programme investments for the future and, above all, to support all those in europe who are hit by the crisis. i think of the unemployed, i think of the part-timers, i think of the households that are going through immense difficulties today. that is the urgency, in my view, and that is what the european leaders will be judged on tomorrow.
madam president, i shall be speaking on the report on the rating agencies, and my first words will be to congratulate my friend jean-paul gauzès, who has acted with competence, lucidity and pragmatism. but at the risk of being a little off-topic, madam president, i would like to speak about the problem of the rating of the states. the states, in the crisis we are going through, have become major financial actors in the face of the risk of a collapse of the financial sector. they have taken guarantees, they have debts, they have equity investments, and that is why i wonder whether the european union should not propose, as part of the new global regulation of capitalism, the creation of a public global agency for the rating of states, an independent structure that would be placed with the international monetary fund and that would allow citizens to have a view, through these ratings, of the quality of the finances of the states which, i repeat, have become indispensable financial actors.
madam president, i would simply remind mr lehne that those who wanted legislation on hedge funds were the socialists in this parliament, that it was their determination that led first to this legislation on hedge funds and also, in mr gauzès' report, to the request that the commission should work on the idea of a public credit rating agency. i would also like to take this opportunity to say to the commissioner that i am surprised at the situation where there are two weights, two measures in the commission's monopoly of legislative initiative. when the council asks the commission to put on the table a proposal to harmonize bank deposit guarantee, the proposal is there three weeks later. when the european parliament submits a legislative initiative proposal by mr poul nyrup rasmussen, which is voted on by a large majority in this house, you manage to put the proposal on the table when the european parliament can no longer debate it. we asked you for a legislative initiative in this area last september. what have you done since then, commissioner?
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall confine myself to two or three small remarks. the first is that there is a fairly broad agreement in this house on the report on credit rating agencies and, of course, european regulation will evolve over time, but i believe that, for the time being, it can be an exemplary regulation for an international agreement. finally, let me thank the fictitious rapporteurs, mr pittella and mr klinz, who worked very hard with me, the commission teams, the presidency and, of course, the secretariat of the economic committee and the experts, without whom this work could not have been done in this way.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, the european council decided to double the balance of payments facility for non-euro area countries and the commission put on the table on 8 april the concrete provisions for turning this proposal into reality. here in the european parliament we want to take our responsibilities and enable the ecofin council to act quickly because, for us, there is in this proposal a sign of solidarity with the non-euro area countries which is absolutely indispensable in the midst of this crisis. last november we already doubled the balance of payments facility from 12 to 25 billion euros, and today, in order to take account of the reality and the severity of the crisis we are experiencing, which particularly affects non-euro area countries, but also, no doubt, of the european parliament's timetable, we propose to double the facility again to 50 billion, given that what we decided last november has already made it possible to provide support for hungary, latvia and, yesterday, romania. we think that this is necessary and, behind it, we have had a debate among ourselves, which i will not hide, as to whether this assessment of non-euro area countries should be based solely on a case-by-case approach or whether, in reality, there was a more general situation which was that of non-euro area countries. that is why in our resolution we propose to raise the question of the conditions for enlargement and to examine to what extent membership of the zone can be a protective element. we also ask very strongly that the european parliament be informed of the reality of the analyses of the crisis situations in these countries, because when the commission grants its loans to non-euro area countries, there is a readability, there is a reality of the information on the behaviour of private banks, on the behaviour of the actors, which led to this crisis, of which the european parliament must be informed. finally, we believe that all possible mechanisms for dealing with this crisis must be exploited by the commission in order to be implemented. this is particularly the case with article 100 of the treaty, which would also make it possible to set up exceptional mechanisms for the euro area countries, which we consider essential to explore because of the gravity of the crisis. two last things. firstly, we understand that the conditionality of these loans is part of the discussion. the commission generally carries out this work in coordination with the imf. what we want is the setting up of a working group to look at how these memoranda are drawn up and how they take account of the reality of the country in question, but also of the overall strategy of the european union, particularly when it comes to investment arbitrage, support for purchasing power, or conditionality in relation to a strategy for green growth and sustainable development. finally, we see in this mechanism a reality of the borrowing capacity of the european union and the commission on international markets, and we therefore believe that this is a useful way of starting a debate which we are also conducting on the european borrowing and on the capacity of the european union to finance strategies and investments of the future through this borrowing. finally, the commission has put in place a new mechanism to ensure that reimbursements enable the eu budget to meet these requirements. we support this amendment to the regulation and we hope that this parliament will give massive support to this useful proposal.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, we have to increase the guarantee provided by the european union for the second time in the face of the difficulties of its non-euro area members. this is the second time. we have already done this in december. mr. mccreevy commended us for our swift action. we have already done so in december, and we would like to tell mr mccreevy, as mrs berès said earlier, that the elevator... we would like reciprocity to be applied, that is to say, when parliament asks you to propose a draft on the regulation of hedge funds, you should reply immediately, and within the same time as we do when you ask us to increase the intervention line for the protection of the balance of payments. we are indeed in a crisis; we may not have to sit down every day, but at least we should not wait six months between the time when the european parliament asks for a directive on hedge funds and the time when the commission does! so, of course, as far as this aid is concerned, we are in full agreement with increasing the appropriation line, and i am a little surprised by mr becsey's intervention. we had the exact same discussion in december. commissioner almunia explained to mr becsey that it was the hungarian government itself that had asked for the imf's help, without asking for the help of the european union, and that it was the european union that had said: 'but we can help you too'. it is clear that the european union has a duty of solidarity towards the countries outside the euro area, but there is no reason to refuse the imf's assistance, to which each of us, including hungary and romania, contributes. so in the berès report, which we shall vote for anyway, there are two things that are still upsetting us. firstly, what is the point of saying in paragraph 4 that we must commit ourselves to solidarity between countries, and then saying in paragraph 11 that we are not bound by the commitments of any country? so it is true that we are not bound by the commitments of a country, but it is useless to remind us of this when we say that we will be in solidarity. secondly, it is said that there is no legal basis for increasing this solidarity, but it is the commission's task to provide that legal basis. we are in a crisis and we must be in a great period of providing the legal basis.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, it is true that sometimes we would like the commission to show the same sense of responsibility and efficiency as the european parliament. i want to say to mr becsey that i think the resolution we are voting on here really highlights the challenge of belonging to the euro area and the importance of keeping the concept of solidarity alive within the european union, and that is one of the reasons why we strongly support this proposal. the commissioner, on the question of article 100, the problem is not whether article 100 is going to be used here, the problem is whether we are equipped, finally, at the level of the european union with all the tools to deal with the reality of this crisis and its potential developments tomorrow. we believe that the commission must implement secondary legislation so that tomorrow it can possibly use article 100 to deal with difficulties within the euro area for which the 50 billion euros we are going to vote on today could not be used. that is the spirit of the european parliament's position, and i hope that the commission will hear this message, whether it is on the mechanism, the full range of tools needed to deal with this crisis, or on the conditions for drawing up the memoranda and the conditionality of these loans in the negotiations with the member states concerned.
mr president, the statements by the president of the council and the representative of the commission are very interesting, since they give the european parliament the right to demand that there be a link between the signing of a new trade agreement with turkmenistan and respect for human rights. these are fundamental principles for trade agreements concluded by the european union. but i believe that, given the massive human rights violations in this country at the moment, the best way to implement this mindset is to start by suspending the new trade commitment you are proposing to us, and therefore not voting for us on the assent we are being asked to vote on today.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, if this was not on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, then we are asking for the adjournment on behalf of the green group.
mr president, i welcome the report by our colleague, mr valean, on a subject where, for the first time, the european union's powers are fully applicable. in this area of telecommunications, i must say that the situation is sometimes absolutely intolerable. there is a deception of consumers who discover their bill with astonishment, when they have used a mobile phone like this, which they were told, in the subscription, that it included the international as, for example, in my case, just recently, for a day in italy with an internet connection on two or three occasions, a bill from the french quasi-public operator orange of 1200 euros and another day at the border of france, between evian and geneva, for 3000 euros! these are absolutely reprehensible practices, which are akin to a real scam of which these operators are guilty, without any transparency towards consumers. the rules on contract transparency for mobile telephony should therefore be harmonised across the european union.
mr president, the principles, actions and instruments of a european immigration policy is the broad subject of mr busuttil's report. what about principles? the european union would need 60 million extra extra-european immigrants by 2050, despite its millions of unemployed and poor people today, its plans for mass layoffs, its business closures. the stock? it means giving immigrant populations ever more rights, including the right to vote, and unlimited access to the european territory and the labour market. the instruments? it is the so-called 'positive' discrimination or the recognition of informal qualifications, whatever they may be, while requiring europeans to have properly certified diplomas; the recognition of a new category of migrants, the environmental migrants; the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the need for a european union which is not only a political union but also a political union. on the contrary, it is urgent to reverse the flow of migration, to re-establish internal frontiers, to put in place a genuine family policy of european demographic renewal, to impose national and european preference in all areas.
in writing. i chose to abstain on the proposal for a regulation laying down the obligations of operators placing timber and timber products on the market. while i believe it is absolutely essential to strengthen controls on timber imports at the borders of the single market, i consider that the report proposes a too heavy and bureaucratic system which penalizes our own european forestry sectors. instead of imposing (complicated and costly) product labelling which is very damaging to the sector and the wood material, controls should be strengthened and the entry link to the european market targeted in order to combat illegal logging. the primary objective of the regulation should be to establish a new collective culture of control and accountability rather than to impose a bureaucratic and costly process of checking every product. in view of the difficulties in the sector, wood should not be penalised in comparison with other materials or energy sources by means of overly restrictive rules when placed on the market.
in writing. i would like to express my opposition to paragraph 17 of this report, which is yet another example of the campaign against strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament. in this connection, i would like to recall the following:first of all, the choice of strasbourg was, from the outset, a highly symbolic decision linked to the history of europe. the aim was to highlight the purpose of the european process as a factor of peace and rapprochement of peoples. it is because i believe that this objective is still relevant that i am campaigning for the preservation of the symbol of strasbourg. secondly, i would like to reiterate my wish that a europe bearing the cultural diversity which characterizes its nations should be affirmed. why not a significant european institution in warsaw, another in barcelona, another in stockholm, in addition to brussels for the commission and strasbourg for the parliament? unless we are only thinking of europe-business, there is no reason to centralize everything in one place, necessarily far away from the european peoples. that is why i am opposed to paragraph 17 of the mcguinness report, which is not a problem.
in writing. − in the context of amending directive 2006/42/ec of 17 may 2006 on machinery with regard to machinery for pesticide application, we would like to stress that since the european parliament adopted the machinery directive in 2006, we are stressing that the european commission should revise the tractor directive in order to secure a coherent approach. in our opinion, tractors do not fall under the scope of the definition of machinery as laid down in the machinery directive. the existing tractors directive could and should therefore be replaced by a less complex regulation.
in writing. in 2008, there were 165 trawler wrecks. in 2009, 225 have already been announced. the french fishing industry is in serious trouble because the french government and brussels have decided to sacrifice french fishermen in the name of european economic and trade policy. norway, a non-eu country which has negotiated economic gas agreements with the eu, is allocating 80% of the cod quota, or 500 000 tonnes per year, to itself. france, on the other hand, has only 9 000 tonnes per year, of which only 700 are for the channel and the north sea. how can we not be disgusted by the liquidation of french fishermen? why are brussels and the french government so intent on the planned disappearance of an entire section of our economy? the explanation is euro-globalist interests and the dogma of free trade. the €4 million promised by the minister for agriculture and fisheries as financial compensation for the stopping of vessels that have reached their fishing quota will not solve this problem. it is urgent and vital to free french fishermen from these discriminatory and destructive european quotas.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the busuttil report, although i admit that i do not support all the points raised in this report, in particular the favourable reception given to the conclusion of the european pact on immigration and asylum: my group had voted for the deletion of this reference in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, but we were placed in the minority on this issue; the same was true of the increased role of frontex in return operations. however, in view of the final result, i have supported this report in order to express a strong voice in favour of opening legal channels for immigration. i support the recognition of the need for migrant labour in the eu, the need for greater consultation of civil society, freedom of movement in the eu after 5 years of residence, respect for human dignity and the application of the most favourable measures in the context of the application of the return directive, and, above all, the right to vote in local elections, which the european right was fiercely opposed to.
in writing. a common immigration policy based on facilitating the opening of legal immigration channels cannot win our approval. it must be the exact opposite. this report is based, once again, on the dangerous recommendations of the commission in its green paper of 11 january 2005 on economic migration, which estimates the number of migrant workers the eu would need by 2050 at 60 million and calls for the need to open legal immigration channels. how can we not consider it indecent, in the midst of the economic, financial and social crisis, to advocate further opening up our markets to foreign workers, even as our national jobs are threatened and unemployment is rampant? in the midst of the crisis, economic and social protectionism must be applied and jobs and social benefits must be reserved for nationals. finally, the report is based on the false premise that opening the floodgates to legal immigration will significantly reduce or eliminate illegal immigration. we know that this is not the case and that legal immigration is a call for total immigration.
mr president, mr commissioner, symbolically in this institutional triangle, we are nevertheless astonished to see an essential act of the european parliament today, with this discharge, and there is a marked absence. i am thinking, ladies and gentlemen, of the visitors to this spectacle where some people say that there are accounts outside the budget, which cannot be communicated from a public point of view, that is to say without transparency, and where the council is not present to testify to possible difficulties or other situations. i think that as members of parliament we cannot accept this situation, this deplorable absence of the council, and we can only protest and validate what the chairman of the committee on budgetary control has indicated, namely to postpone this discharge, because otherwise parliament would be making a fool of itself by validating accounts of which it is not aware and which it has not been able to inspect. frankly, mr president, the council should get its act together and be able to give the necessary information in the context of transparency and avoid the eurosceptics taking this matter to indicate that we are not transparent and that we are making mistakes, especially with regard to democracy.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to pay tribute to the compromise of our two rapporteurs, mathieu grosch and silvia-adriana ticău, because this is a difficult subject in the sense that, yes, we want the internal market, but public opinion and business leaders do not understand that the internal market is sometimes the obligation of suicide for some of them, of economic regression or unemployment. the internal market is only worthwhile in the eyes of public opinion if it is win-win. we know very well today that in matters such as cabotage, social conditions are such in the various countries that, if it were systematized, we could see, as things stand, a number of workers from countries with high wage standards being evacuated, pushed out of the market, by countries with low wage standards. and so i think that the position that has been adopted is ultimately the right one. we must liberalize cabotage, but it is too early to do so suddenly and indiscriminately. so we are quite happy with the concept of consecutive cabotage, with an arrangement that refers us to a clause for a meeting for a report on the social impact by the commission, and especially that we do not have an automatic and blind date for liberalization. and that is why we will vote for this report, asking the commission to be attentive and expressing the hope that there will be liberalization in the long term, but that it will be done without false competition and social dumping which do so much damage to europe's image and which have motivated, in a country like mine and probably also in the country of mrs wortmann-kool, the brutal 'no' to the european constitutional treaty for fear of social degradation. so i thank these two rapporteurs.
mr president, when we leave this place this evening, most of us will take a black car. these are quality cars and quality drivers, and we know that those drivers are very professional. it is a known quality. they meet the criteria. although i partly agree with the english gentleman a while ago when he complained about too much legislation – sometimes it is true that we do produce too much legislation – i still regret that eu access to professional rules was not extended to taxis, because we all use taxis in the various member states and their quality differs a great deal. when you take a taxi, reliability is very important, as is quality: knowing what to expect. it is also a question of safety. you are very often alone in the car in strange surroundings. the taxi is also, for many of us, the first contact we have in a new country, so it would make sense for the drivers to meet certain european criteria. it also means that, if they were professional, well educated and knew where they were going, we would not have to be afraid of overcharging. there are countries like germany, sweden, slovenia and finland where the national rules are very stringent on this issue and the taxi profession works well. london taxis are also known for their quality. we should share these best practices. but, in the mean time, while we are waiting for this legislation on criteria for the taxi profession, maybe we should legislate for us to give good tips to those drivers who take us home in the evenings.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner tajani, ladies and gentlemen, the two principles which have guided my approach since the beginning of the process have been the equalization of passenger rights in all modes of transport, which is an objective which the commission and the european parliament have set themselves, and the fact of ensuring that these rights, with special attention to persons with reduced mobility - because indeed there was a certain lag in the world of maritime transport towards these people - are strongly inscribed in this text. the general spirit of the text is that we can travel in europe without being subject to the good will of the airlines, that we can demand a minimum of services, a minimum of information and, finally, that disabled passengers, the pmr, can enjoy the same quality of rights as other european citizens and that they are not penalized twice. the text adopted by the commission on 31 march seems to be consistent with the overall approach. firstly, because we are increasing the rights of people with reduced mobility. if this text is adopted, no one will be refused entry on the grounds of disability, with the exception of, of course, the conditions of boarding, respect for the dignity of the person and the technical features of the ship. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. today, thanks to the network and the internet, we need and it is necessary to have round trips and information that is formalized. so this has been dealt with in the text. finally, information on passenger rights, as it exists today in railways and in air transport, must be standardised in accessible formats. as far as the rights of all passengers are concerned, we thought it important that compensation in the event of problems should also be harmonised upwards, taking as a basis what is done in the air. and, for that, delays, cancellations will allow refunds up to 100% with a grid based on problems. information should be clear and available, which is often a problem in transport. we see it regularly, people lack information, they do not know why the boat, in this case - but also the train or the plane - does not leave, why there are delays, and we wanted to improve these modes of information. finally, the management of complaints needs to be better organised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. the role of the national agencies which will handle complaints has also been addressed and is better defined. finally, urban and suburban transport - i am thinking here of the vaporetto, which mr albertini loved in venice, italy - will be excluded from this text, since it is not situated in the major transport areas. the cruise ship now. i would remind you that cruising is now an extremely important form of holiday, that the target group includes both the elderly and the disabled, which is why cruising is included in this text, of course, with a reference to the package travel directive to which it relates, which is a directive from 1991, but also with the assurance of the same level of treatment for consumers. the definition of force majeure, which is a possible ground for refusal, was put forward, and we worked on a consensus amendment which we supported jointly, but i would remind you that in the air today the court of justice has often had to decide because the cases of force majeure had not been sufficiently specified. so in this text we have tried to deal with the problems that are related to shipping. i think of the problems of tides, winds and storms which are also a reality of shipping and which had to be addressed. finally, the responsibility of ports in providing assistance was debated. it is a text on passenger rights. it is not a text ... (the president invites the speaker to conclude)... and so, the arbitration between the ports and the companies having been made, here is the whole text. i know that georg jarzembowski is going to table his amendments and i will therefore reply in the two minutes i have left.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would first like to take up the amendments proposed by mr jarzembowski, who said earlier that we must be reasonable, and i believe that the point of this text is that it should be reasonable. is it reasonable to want to abolish the obligation for carriers to train staff who are in contact with people with reduced mobility? is it reasonable to remove compensation for lost equipment, including wheelchairs for pmrs? is it reasonable - and mr rack, who was here earlier, has pointed this out to us, and i thank him for his intervention - to prevent reimbursement, as is done everywhere, particularly in the united states, especially when there is no departure and when there is no information or alternative? so these elements in your amendments do not seem reasonable to me, and i wanted to say so. i think there is a consensus on the rest. we have seen it in all the debates. i would like to thank the commission, i would like to thank the council, all the colleagues who have worked on these dossiers in an excellent spirit, because we understood that there was an extremely important issue for the european citizens. and so i think that tomorrow, and i appeal to the epp: your amendments are not reasonable, we must vote on this text, we must send a strong signal at a time when europeans sometimes doubt europe. we must send a strong message to this half billion, as commissioner tajani said, that the needs of the citizens, the needs of europeans, are being taken into account. that's all i had to say.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal before you is a positive measure for artists, for art and for culture, and our group will support it. the compromise which you now have before you is one which seeks to take account of different points of view and different interests and which - and that is what is interesting - is likely to be adopted by the council, which has so far suffered a small minority of blockages. this compromise improves the commission's proposal. it makes relations between producers and interpreters fairer by means of a clause which allows interpreters to take over their rights if the producers do not exercise them. it provides more justice for studio musicians than solo musicians. they will be subject to a permanent levy of 20%. we shall consider, under the spanish presidency, extending it to the audiovisual sector, i.e. to producers and actors; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations with the council, and that it should be involved in the negotiations with the council. these are real incomes; studio musicians will see their income triple, up to 2,000 euros maximum. there is no harm to consumers because extended protection does not increase prices. there is no prejudice to libraries, because libraries do not pay royalties to performers and record producers. they only pay the authors, and with many exceptions. that is why i am very grateful to brian crowley, neena gill, commissioner mccreevy and the commission for all the work that has been done on the state of the world, on the extension of life, on the new uses of works, and that is why this text must be adopted to try to make it final at first reading.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, thank you. this is a somewhat unusual exercise in style for the european parliament in this report, since, i would remind you, the question of urban mobility was initiated by the commissioner for transport, jacques barrot, more than two years ago, and it resulted in a green paper from the european commission, which delivered its conclusions to us in the spring of 2007, together with a report from our parliament - an own-initiative report - signed by my colleague, reinhard rack, who is here. the european institutional mechanism requires that a green paper be followed by a white paper, and in this case it was the european commission's proposals for action plans for urban mobility. i have to thank commissioner tajani, who is here, for warning me in december that it would not be politically possible for the european commission to make a rapid proposal. it is understandable that a number of member states are reluctant to do so for their own reasons, in the run-up to the european elections. but parliament has wanted to lift the glove. and i want to pay tribute to all my colleagues here, from all the political groups - and in particular the coordinators - and to the committee on regional development for following my proposal, which was to take the lead and say 'since the commission can no longer take the initiative, let us take the initiative'. and what we're about to propose is something a little bit new. i don't know if there's any precedent here in this house. we shall be proposing to the commission the action plan which it should have proposed to us. of course, there is no legal basis for such an own-initiative report. the parliament proposing a very concrete action plan, with very specific proposals, when it is not the executive, when it is not the government of the union - it is the commission that is the executive - can only hope to be heard. i must say that, moreover, in recent months we have had the massive support of all the organisations concerned with these matters: in particular - i would like to stress this here for the last of the colleagues who have some reservations about this initiative - that of the local authorities, of all the organisations representing local authorities, including countries which are now calling for subsidiarity to explain to us that this action plan is not feasible. so i think that local authorities have realised that urban mobility will be one of the great challenges of the 21st century. why would you do that? well, because today, there are 60 percent of europeans living in urban areas. in 2020 it will be 80%, and we have a legal basis, we, the european union, which assigns to us, as a shared competence with the member states and local authorities, transport policy. will we europeans give up any idea or initiative in the area of transport which is the most complex and probably the most decisive issue for the years to come? we do not think so, and that is why the european parliament has asked us not to be silent, not to remain silent on urban mobility, and in a way to ask the commission, through this initiative, to take up this issue as a priority for the next mandate. i would like to thank all the coordinators, because we have worked in an unprecedented way, we have worked very early on, and the report that has been presented has been able to receive a very large majority in the committee on transport. i would like to say that this is a report based on the principle of subsidiarity. it is out of the question - yes, i am too long, but i am sure you will thank the rapporteur, mr president - that europe is considering deciding anything about urban transport instead of local authorities. i am a local elected representative myself and i am very attached to the free administration of local authorities, having fought here, in particular, with willi piecyk, my colleague on the committee on transport. but i believe that europe can be an incentive, can improve the exchange of information and good practice, and that is the whole point of our proposals, which we will explain in detail later.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr savary, we are here in a parliamentary assembly to vote on texts, commissioner, and we are here in a parliamentary assembly to ensure that the texts are implemented. and we see today that after the excellent work done by your predecessor on the green paper and the 400 or so contributions that have followed, the work has hardly advanced, to the point that, as you yourself have just said, it was interesting for the european parliament to take a stand. yes, nature does hate the void. so when the european commission does not do its job, parliament has to do it, and i have to say that the work done - and you have also said it, commissioner - by our colleague mr savary is very interesting because, in fact, he has given you all the material to make up the action plan. i do not want to say that we are in a reversal of roles between the commission and parliament, but we must note that while the lisbon treaty has not yet been adopted, de facto parliament is gaining a little more power. this is an excellent report by mr savary, because it actually takes account of a number of proposals from the committee on regional development. we are waiting for you to provide us with a guide, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. that'll be useful. this guide will not be to put a brake on the communities, but on the contrary to help them. we expect you to provide us with indicators, again, not to constrain but to support. we are particularly looking forward to your presentation of the elements of the travel plans. in some countries it exists, in some countries it is even compulsory, it is absolutely necessary. let me give you an example. at the level of the urban housing intergroup, which i have the honour of chairing, we have highlighted the urban sprawl in recent years: in ten years, urban sprawl covers three times the surface of luxembourg. so how does this relate to our debate tonight? this is very directly related to the fact that city users make exactly 20% more journeys per day due to urban sprawl, and that more than 70% use their own vehicle. all this to say that when the committee on regional development asks you to observe both the condition of the integrated approach and the travel plans, we are faced with a global logic which we hope you will take into account in your action plan. the question of housing has obviously been discussed in our urban housing intergroup and we are grateful in advance for the fact that the integrated approach is being taken into account here too. today, commissioner, you did not answer our questions. you have made a commitment, so to speak, quite firmly on principle, but without giving us any guarantees. actually, the situation is serious. why would you do that? there are 400 million europeans living in cities, and these 400 million europeans are affected by these living conditions that every day, they waste time in traffic jams. we know that these traffic jams cost 1% of gdp. we are talking about a recovery plan, economic recovery, and yet we are wasting billions of euros. we must move faster, commissioner, because these urban mobility action plans are an essential part of the recovery plan, but also in terms of the climate challenge, since, as you have said, 40% of pollution is in the cities. i would also like to mention the safety aspect, since two out of every three road accidents occur in cities. when you consider that a death costs nearly a million euros, and a serious injury costs more than a million euros, you can see the economic and human cost that this challenge of urban mobility represents every year. so for all these practical reasons, on the eve of the european elections, we ask you, commissioner, if possible at the conclusion of this evening's debate, to go further in your proposals and promises, not general promises, but an action plan, your action plan so that our fellow citizens are more inclined to go to the polls on 7 june.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate i would naturally like to reassure mrs sommer at the outset. there has been a lot of legislation here which has concerned local authorities on the competition of the stadtwerke, for example, on public service obligations in transport, on directives concerning public procurement. well, that's not what this is about. it's much more subsidiary. it is not a question here of deciding that a municipality or an urban area should make a "zone 30" or give preference to the railway. i've made sure we don't get into that kind of debate. what i asked myself was: 'what can be the added value of the european union?' first, his interest in acting. the european union cannot leave the urban issue aside in the same month - december 2008 - when it is assigning, thanks to mrs merkel or mr sarkozy, a particularly ambitious climate plan. how can you go into a climate plan that says "three times twenty" and say "i'm not interested in the urban area", which is the one that has the most influence on the climate issue? it is a matter of political coherence european political coherence since we have agreed among ourselves, and the governments, to embark on the climate plan. there is a legitimate interest in the urban and we will not escape it, in transport as in other areas. but yes, we must make sure that the municipalities decide sovereignly, they are closer to us. but what we can do is to make them meet, to exchange best practices, to exchange information. we must encourage them to put in place urban development plans, which not all have been able to do. to ensure that they incorporate all dimensions of travel: smooth travel, mass travel, travel by water - mr blokland is right - travel by rail. to ensure that they make urban transport more attractive to the user. that is what we are looking for, and that is why we are asking for a financial instrument. there's marco polo, who's pushing for combined transport. there were the urban programmes. we have several european programmes which are incentive programmes. we're not making them up this time, they've been around for years. well, we should have, in the next financial perspective, without increasing it, a reorientation towards urban transport. here's what we're offering. and i say, in conclusion - madam president, excuse me, i am the rapporteur - to mr tajani that if we have a very large majority tomorrow, he should be able to come back to the commission and say: 'i think we have to do something, because we have the legitimacy to do it and because parliament has not acted alone.' (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i would first like to thank mrs jensen for her always outstanding work, because she is very open and very attentive to all opinions. i would first like to say that behind the intelligent transport systems there is still european money and i was a little surprised to see how much of it was almost exclusively directed towards the car. i think the car has its virtues, of course. it is an extremely powerful economic sector in europe. but i think we need to put intelligence into all modes of transport. i am not ignoring the fact that there is ertms for rail, sesar, galileo, but i think that there is a lack of a user-oriented approach in terms of user information, accessibility for people with reduced mobility and how urban vehicles can be adapted today, the introduction of an energy-efficient urban vehicle, safety in transport, particularly in public transport, which is a very important subject, user information, ticketing, which often deserves considerable progress. so i think we should still diversify the resources in the coming years. in particular, i would like to see attention paid to the respect of personal data; we must avoid being caught up in orwell's 1984, in the mirage of the complete replacement of man by machine. we saw what happened on the hudson this winter, if there hadn't been a pilot, we probably would have had a mechanic who couldn't straighten the plane. finally, i think that we must also give priority to modes other than motor modes. i agree with the report that has been tabled, with these reservations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, madam commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating our colleague mr john bowis, even though he is not here. i regret, moreover, that he is not here today because he was so involved in his report on patients' rights that he really deserved to be here today. so this is not a new services directive, of course, and certainly not. it is a question of refusing to let the court of justice make european law instead of policies. this is unacceptable. european citizens have the right to seek medical treatment in another member state, but under certain conditions. i would like to reassure our colleagues who are concerned about possible future deviations that this directive fully respects the sovereignty of the member states over their health systems. contrary to what some people say, even those who oppose it, this text is for all patients and it restores more justice, more equity, because until now only the most privileged have access to cross-border care. the directive will enable every citizen to receive such care, provided that he obtains prior authorization for hospital care from his member state of affiliation, which will allow reimbursement of costs in the same amount as would be provided in the member state of origin. provided that everything is done to avoid medical tourism, i see nothing but progress. it is a great step forward for health in europe, it is more equity, more information for our citizens about the care available, and more cooperation in new health technologies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on a text which i have long called for, particularly in my report on the impact of the exclusion of health services from the services directive. however, i fear that the vote i just took will leave a bitter taste in my mouth. the report, as voted in the committee on the environment, with the support of most of the political groups except the socialists, is, with some improvements, a response to the judgments of the court of justice. not only does it not address the major challenges of health policy in the union, it does not solve legal uncertainty for patients and it enshrines a market view of health care. as regards legal uncertainty, it seems to me obvious that the artistic ambiguity between the respective conditions of application of this directive or regulation (eec) no 1408/1971, and soon regulation (ec) no 883/2004 adopted yesterday, will only lead the court of justice to have to decide again. as for the market approach, the spirit of this report is already summed up in its legal basis, namely article 95 alone, which governs the rules of the internal market. health would thus be a commodity like any other, subject to the same rules of supply and demand. this can only lead to unequal access to care between well-off and well-informed citizens, who can choose the best care available in the eu, and others who have to be content with already weak services in many member states, which this directive is in no way intended to improve. in the same spirit, amendment no 67 is to put national social health systems in competition, with everyone being free, of course, to pay for the system of their choice in the eu. i would also like to mention the question of prior authorization for hospital health care, the introduction of which is subject to a whole series of constraints for the member states, even though this principle makes it possible both to control the financial balance of social systems and to guarantee patients the conditions for reimbursement. for all these reasons, and because i have little hope for the outcome of today's vote, given the fine unanimity...
mr president, on 2 july 2008 the commission presented a proposal for a directive on the enforcement of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare, seeking to remove existing obstacles. this is a priority for all member states. however, not all of them have the means to guarantee a given level of quality and safety for patients, either in terms of care or even the professional quality of the practitioners. it therefore seems necessary to clarify the responsibilities of the member states in this area. given the diversity of the organisation of health care systems in the union, it must not be forgotten that health must remain a purely national competence and that each state is free to define its own health policy. however, given the mobility of european workers - even though it affects only 3 to 4% of citizens and costs just under €10 billion per year - there are still many uncertainties about the quality and safety of care, patients' rights, data protection and redress in the event of harm. but unfortunately we are moving towards an inevitable harmonization from below, and it is in this respect that we will remain extremely vigilant in our support for this report, in order to defend the social gains of our fellow citizens as best we can.
the committee on budgets - mr president, yes, i am replacing mrs sartori, who is indeed detained in italy, and it is true that i am very sorry to have to say this to you because she would have particularly liked to be here today. medical procedures are the subject of our discussion, especially because they can sometimes have harmful consequences for the health of patients, either because of adverse effects of medication, medical errors, or infections contracted in medical facilities. these risks include, in particular, hospital-acquired infections, which affect one in 20 patients admitted to hospital, or 4 100 000 per year. the figures from the european commission on this subject are very worrying. adverse events occur in 8% to 12% of patients hospitalized in the member states of the european union. this translates into an annual number of between 7 million and 15 million patients in hospital, plus some 37 million patients in primary health care. infections in hospitals alone affect on average one in 20 patients admitted to hospital, for a total of over 4 million patients per year. in total, hospital-acquired infections cause the death of around 37 000 people in europe each year. to achieve the objective of reducing these infections by 900 000 cases per year by 2015, i.e. a reduction of 20%, the member states and the european institutions are called upon to put in place the necessary instruments. the report recommends: to promote the education and training of health and paramedical personnel, with particular attention to hospital-acquired infections and the antiviral resistance of the viruses that cause them; to improve patient awareness of this problem by asking the commission to develop a document for patients based on a practical guide for the prevention of hospital-acquired infections that was developed by the world health organisation who in 2003; support research in this field with particular attention to new technologies, nanotechnologies and nanomaterials; increase the presence of nurses specialised in infection control. finally, as the text emphasizes, and as mrs sartori has stressed, it is important to improve patient education on this subject. it is imperative to invite the commission to draw up a document for the prevention of these hospital-acquired infections for use by patients and to submit it to parliament and the council. the commission will also have to monitor progress made by the member states and the european union in this area every three years. a survey carried out in france, for example, shows that 83% of the respondents have heard of hospital-acquired infections, and that these risks are the main source of concern for french people in the context of hospitalization. in contrast, the general public does not feel adequately informed about the causes and consequences of hospital-acquired infections. the effort to control hospital-acquired infections will have to be more focused in the coming years on informing health professionals and the general public.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would first like to thank all our colleagues who have spoken on mrs sartori's report. i would like to thank them for the proposals they are making. i would also like to say to the commissioner, who does not seem to share the numerical objectives set out in the report by mrs sartori, that we take her point of view into account, of course, but that it is important, in any case, that we do our utmost to ensure a high level of protection for both patients and healthcare workers, and that, while it is not desirable to have a numerical proposal given the diversity of care that is provided within the european union, i believe it is still important that we do our utmost to ensure the greatest possible safety. this is the added value of the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, patients with rare diseases suffer from diagnostic error and often do not receive any treatment. the rarity of these diseases creates challenges from both a scientific and an economic point of view. however, having been rapporteur for the orphan medicines regulation ten years ago, i know how few these patients are to be considered a local or regional problem, and how many diseases there are, on the other hand, too many to be taught to health professionals. the expertise is therefore scarce. the answer must necessarily come from europe, and our itre committee supports mr trakatellis in his desire to strengthen research and prevention. how, for example, can a couple with two children who are suspected of having cystic fibrosis and who want to have a third child be deprived of the advances in research so that the child does not develop the same disease? that's why we need more coordination, more safety, more clarity for patients. these are key issues that respond to the expectations of european citizens for a europe of health.
mr president, before the vote, before they vote on the casaca report, i would ask the following, on the basis of the rules of procedure of parliament, annex i, rule 1, and i read part of annex i, rule 1: 'any member having a direct financial interest in the matter under discussion shall so declare orally'. in the casaca report on the discharge, we shall vote on the pension funds. there are over 400 members of this parliament who are in the pension fund. i would ask the president to ask the members who are in the pension fund, because they have a direct interest in what is going to be discussed, to say so orally in the house right away. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, it is obvious that the first step is that members who are in the pension fund must report this, and at the same time this means that they abstain from voting on the casaca report because there are elements in this report which give rise to a conflict of interest with their personal interests. i therefore ask you to apply the rules of procedure of the european parliament.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would just like to say that this is an important report because it sets up european regulations on credit rating agencies and is therefore one of the elements of the response to the crisis. i would like to inform you that this morning coreper adopted the compromise text which is now before you for your vote. in order for parliament to vote in favour, you must reject the amendments, except for the corresponding parts of amendment no 172. and i would like to thank the fictional rapporteurs, gianni pittella and wolf klinz, and all the people who have worked on this important issue.
mr president, on the jensen report, i voted in favour of this report, that is to say the report on the proposal for a directive on the deployment of intelligent transport systems. the aim of this directive is to ensure the interoperability of information and communication technologies in transport. innovation in transport should be encouraged, in particular where it can improve vehicle safety. innovation is of no use if we do not ensure that it can be applied throughout the european area. the directive should help to reduce the number of fatalities on european roads by reducing both the risk of collisions and the severity of accidents. i would remind you that the european union has set itself the objective of halving the number of road deaths by 2010 compared with the level in 2000. i regret that the directive on crossborder cooperation in road safety, which we voted on several months ago, has still not been adopted by the transport ministers of the european union, because it would save lives by facilitating the enforcement of penalties against motorists who commit an offence in a member state other than the one in which their vehicle is registered.
as regards mr duchoň's report on rail freight corridors, i should like to say that the european parliament has just adopted this report on the european rail network for competitive freight. i voted in favour of this report, which should increase and improve the transport of goods by rail. european action in this area was needed. the current operation of rail freight transport is not satisfactory, offering too few guarantees in terms of timetable reliability for companies wishing to use the railway to transport their goods. we must make rail freight more attractive to businesses because if some of the freight transport is switched from road to rail, that is as many greenhouse gas emissions avoided and as many fewer lorries in traffic jams on roads and motorways. i therefore hope that the transport ministers of the member states will now follow the path set by the european parliament towards a more efficient european rail freight network.
in writing. bus and coach passengers should enjoy the same rights as air and rail passengers. that is the philosophy behind this report. in principle, all passengers must be equal before the law. however, there are many reservations. they are linked to the very nature of this sector, which is dominated by micro-enterprises and smes. we cannot be satisfied with measures such as those proposed in plenary which, under the pretext of greater protection of passenger rights, merely introduce unmanageable constraints on bus and coach drivers and unavoidable price increases for passengers themselves. why should a driver whose job is to drive safely be required to undergo special training to provide assistance to people with reduced mobility or disabilities? why not clearly exempt from the scope of this new european regulation scheduled urban, suburban and regional transport services, which are themselves covered by public service contracts? why should we want to introduce compensation rights of up to 200% of the ticket price in the event of denied boarding due to overbooking? in france, the national federation of passenger transport offered pragmatic solutions to all these problems. some of them were heard. not all of them. that's too bad.
in writing. i voted against the report on crossborder health services because it does not meet the eu's objective of a high level of health, as set out in article 152 of the treaty, and the demand of european citizens to be able to benefit from quality and safe healthcare close to home. the report does not make prior authorisation the rule for being able to receive treatment in another eu member state. prior authorisation allows the financial balance of social systems to be checked and the patient to be guaranteed reimbursement conditions and the necessary information before a hospital intervention abroad. it is also unacceptable that the quality of health care should be improved by competing with other providers of care or by taking as a principle the free movement of patients, which depends primarily on their state of health. the amendments voted on are too vague, paving the way for the court of justice of the eu to resolve the problems. this directive only increases health inequalities among european citizens, because only those who can afford health care will be able to choose quality services.
the president-in-office of the council. − mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, on 2 april 2009, the g20 heads of state and government met in london to discuss the next steps towards the recovery of the world economy and the prevention of future crises of the present scale. at their meeting, the heads of state and government committed themselves to doing all that is necessary to restore confidence, economic growth and employment, to repair the financial system so that credit flows are restored, to strengthen financial regulation and restore market confidence, and to finance and reform our international financial institutions so that they can effectively help to overcome this crisis and prevent future crises. at the same time, heads of state and government committed to promote global trade and investment, reject protectionism and prepare the economy for inclusive, environmentally friendly and sustainable recovery and growth, in order to enhance prosperity. the eu and its proposals and positions have played a very important role. in many, if not most, areas, the eu and the european members of the g20 were the driving force or one of the driving forces behind the work of the preparatory groups and significantly influenced both the breadth of consensus reached and the final shape of the agreed proposals. this included financial market regulation, supervision and transparency of the financial system, rejection of protectionism, pushing for the completion of the doha development agenda, an approach to economic recovery including emphasis on the need to transition the financial sector by cleaning up depreciating assets and laying the foundations for a future sustainable global economy. last but not least, it was the commitment of the eu countries to provide a financial injection to the international monetary fund that not only influenced the willingness of other countries to make similar commitments, but above all played an important, if not a key role, in deciding that the stabilisation of economies that cannot help themselves will not be guided by ad hoc solutions and bilateral aid, but that we will systematically use the multilateral institutions that we have for this purpose, and that in this regard we will also restore respect and authority to them alongside financial strengthening. so let me take a step back and look at what the g20 london summit could mean for the world economy and specifically for the european union. i'll start with a memory of 1933. in june 1933, representatives of 66 countries met in london to try to devise a common plan to restore the world economy in the midst of the great depression. the london monetary and economic conference, which set out to revive global trade, stabilize prices, and restore the gold standard as the basis of the monetary system, was organized by the league of nations and met in a similar global economic situation to the one we are experiencing today. within a month, however, the conference ended in failure and a subsequent loss of confidence, further economic collapse and a chain of devaluations of currencies to strengthen their own economy at the expense of others. european countries turned inward, the american economy became isolated, and that lasted for many years. as the recession turned into a deep depression, unemployment grew and social tensions and the political fallout of tensions led to world war ii. in the weeks leading up to the london summit in 2009, it was difficult not to recall the analogy with the london summit in 1933. fortunately, the world seems to have learned from the experience, at least for now. after many months of disappointed expectations and hopes, low market confidence and a deepening recession, it was almost a political imperative that the g20 summit end on a high note. it was a nightmare task, given how widely different the expectations of different groups and different countries were, and given that some of these expectations were not entirely realistic. it is too early, ladies and gentlemen, to judge whether the g20 heads of state and government meeting has been a success. however, the weeks that have passed since the summit have given us cause for cautious optimism that the summit has indeed been a turning point in this global recession and that it may also become a key historical event in global economic cooperation. it also has a chance to stand the test of time and make history in a way that is as significant as the 1944 bretton woods conference, some of whose outcomes determined the shape of global economic cooperation for a quarter of a century and others that continue to shape it for 60 years. the historic importance of the groundwork laid at the london g20 summit will only be seen when all the commitments made at that summit have been fulfilled, if at all. despite this necessary reservation, there are four reasons why the g20 london meeting can be seen as a successful start to economic recovery and to a new, more sustainable form of global economy and global economic decision-making. first, the g20 summit has indeed boosted confidence in the economy and in the markets. so far, this confidence-building has not been dizzying, and it is natural that it will take time for confidence to be fully restored. the most significant aspect of confidence-building was the way in which the g20 summit participants acted. in the face of deep global decline, they have remained united and reached a broad consensus. key to confidence in the current period of uncertainty was also that the summit participants reaffirmed some fundamental economic paradigms: at the core, at the heart of our global recovery plan, must be jobs, the needs and interests of people who are not afraid of work, all over the world, not only in rich countries but also in poor countries. at the heart of our plan for global recovery must be the needs and interests of not only people active today, but also future generations. recovery cannot be at the expense of the interests of our children and grandchildren. the only reliable basis for sustainable globalisation and growing prosperity is an open world economy based on market principles, effective regulation and strong global institutions. second, the g20 summit sent a very strong signal, perhaps the strongest in 60 years, that the world is returning to multilateralism in economic decision-making on matters of global reach. at the end of the summit, the heads of state or government declared their conviction that prosperity is indivisible and that for economic growth to be sustainable, it must be shared by states. if there is one lesson we can take from the current global crisis, it is that in our economic destiny, we are all connected. we're in the same boat, small and big countries, open or isolated. the interconnectedness of our economies, especially over the last 10 to 15 years, has brought us tremendous benefits in the form of long periods of no major conflict, in the form of unprecedented economic prosperity, the fastest global economic growth in human history, in the form of hundreds of millions of people getting a chance to get out of extreme poverty. it has brought expanded markets for our manufacturers, low inflation and low unemployment. we should not give up these advantages at any cost. this inevitably requires coordination of our policies, in good times and in bad, and the g20 summit confirmed this recognition. thirdly, heads of state and government have reached consensus on issues where a year ago, or nine months ago, consensus would have been almost unthinkable. the london commitments have concluded three months of intensive discussions at the working level and are truly groundbreaking. if they are fulfilled and put into practice, they will certainly provide a good basis for prevention so that we can avoid similarly devastating crises in the coming decades. fourth, the summit has reshaped the space for global economic cooperation, leading to a new balance of power. the largest emerging economies have been given full recognition for their role in the global economy. developed countries and emerging economies have also come together to recognize that the stability and prosperity of poor countries and the most vulnerable social groups everywhere in the world is in the best interest of all of us. this is a strategically significant change. for europe, this means that it will have to fight with a new vision and a well-thought-out policy to maintain its position in global economic decision-making. the size of the eu economy and the legacy of the past alone will not be enough to maintain its important strategic role in the global economic decision-making system in the future. however, from the eu's point of view, the outcome of the london summit was an undeniable success. the summit agreed on all the priorities agreed by the eu heads of state or government in the european council conclusions of 19 and 20 march 2009. the london g20 summit rejected protectionism, committed to responsible and sustainable economic policies, supported multilateralism and agreed to all priorities for financial sector regulation that eu member states collectively considered essential. as mentioned above, in a number of areas, eu members have been the key drags of the g20 negotiations, or one of the drags. however, a number of issues remain open following the london g20 summit. first, despite the enormous progress made in financial regulation and supervision in recent months, a number of issues are still at an incomplete stage and work is continuing. at eu level, however, there is a clear roadmap and timetable for the next two months and a division of roles between the european commission, the european central bank, the european financial commission, ecofin and the june european council. this programme includes, inter alia, the immediate task of taking decisive steps in the area of accounting standards that will enable european banks to operate on a level playing field with american banks. second, on global trade, the g20 leaders in london reaffirmed their previous commitment from washington not to create new barriers to trade. the g20 also reaffirmed its commitment to complete the doha development agenda with an ambitious and balanced outcome. but this commitment was also made at the g20 summit last november, where heads of state and government even committed to reaching the doha development agenda by the end of 2008. the question therefore remains how serious this commitment is this time. however, the g20 leaders in london have now declared that they will give the doha development agenda their personal attention from now on and that they will ensure that it also receives political attention at all forthcoming international meetings that are relevant in this regard. for the eu, pushing for these agreements must be a key priority. third, the g20 committed to provide $1.1 trillion through the international monetary fund and multilateral development banks to support the restoration of credit flows, economic growth and jobs in the global economy. the details of this commitment are yet to be agreed and clarified. the commitment has a short, medium and long-term phase, and the short-term phase also includes the eur 75 billion pledged by the eu countries to the international monetary fund to restore balance of payments stability in the event of an acute need. the details of this commitment are not yet worked out, and the finance ministers of our countries must work out the form and mechanism of this commitment. as for the medium and long-term commitments to strengthen multilateral institutions, this includes a commitment to provide the international monetary fund with an unprecedented $500 billion multilateral loan. in addition, the london summit led to a commitment by g20 countries to support the new issue of sdrs (special drawing rights), the imf's own currency, which imf member countries can use to make payments to each other. the commitment is for 250 billion sdrs. both multilateral credit and sdr issuance will require both rather complicated technical designs and the approval of the imf's authorised bodies, negotiations with the participating countries and ratification of agreements by the national parliaments of the member countries. all of this may take several years, so we need to be firm but realistic in our expectations. the above commitments were also linked to an agreement that the g20 countries would do their utmost to swiftly implement the april 2008 reform of the decision-making structure of the international monetary fund, which has so far been held back by slow ratification by national parliaments. the g20 also asked the international monetary fund to accelerate the next round of membership share and voting rights reforms to be ready by january 2011. this forthcoming reform needs to be given due attention by eu countries, as it could result in many, perhaps most, eu countries losing the direct and indirect participation of their national envoys in the imf's decision-making process and direct access to information. moreover, the reform will take place in the context of the imf's increasing role in global economic decision-making. until now, this issue has been on the fringe of attention in many eu member states, but it should not escape their scrutiny and attention in the coming months. fourthly, there remains one area which will need to be seriously and thoroughly discussed and addressed. that's the global imbalance and the question of the entire global monetary system of the future. these issues were not on the agenda of the london summit consciously and deliberately and so they remain on the list of areas where work is still ahead of us. in this context, it is worth recalling that it was the failure to reach agreement on a global monetary order that brought down the london summit of 1933. today, the question is no simpler than it was then. the eu must give this issue due attention, as addressing it remains one of the important ingredients of sustainable economic recovery and prevention of devastating global crises. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank the united kingdom, the g20 presidency, for organising the summit and, in particular, for organising the whole process of discussions and negotiations at working level in the weeks and months leading up to the summit. the organisers have done a great job and deserve our high praise for their considerable contribution to the progress made and the extent of the consensus reached. it is hoped that the g20 summit in london will usher in a new and successful era of global economic cooperation. we believe he has a very good chance. the conclusions of the g20 summit in london are a very good starting point for ending the global economic crisis as soon as possible. it has also opened up the possibility of reshaping the future global connected economy to better prepare it for the long-term sustainable production of economic decision-making coordination. there remains a vast unfinished agenda and commitments that will have to be fulfilled. the coming months and years will tell how much of the london summit will go down in history. in any case, the g20 summit has been dedicated to changing strategic positions in the global economy. it is important for the eu to enter this period with a clear and realistic vision and with policies that will ensure that the european economy continues to play the strategic role it has enjoyed so far and that the 500 million eu citizens deserve.
mr president, i know that we cannot blame the council, but our work has been very late. we have a full agenda of important discussions. the council is scheduled for five minutes and he's talking for twenty. i think that is disrespectful of parliamentary representation.
you know our rules as well as i do, madame beres. i can use a hammer to all my colleagues, i can only invite the commission and the council to be concise, which you have just done in a remarkable way. commissioner, please. your time is not limited, but i have a piece of paper in front of me that says five minutes is acceptable.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are suffering from the first world recession. this recession calls for a coordinated international response. only then can we all get out of this. the agreement reached at the g20 summit will help us to find the way to growth and jobs. in london, world leaders tripled the imf's funding, gave additional credit to development banks, and reaffirmed their support for open international trade. this programme, which aims to restore credit, growth and jobs, should give us the time needed to stabilise markets and, above all, to restore confidence in the world economy. but we must be careful not to be tempted to take the easy way out. the spectre of protectionism must be eliminated. if we close our borders to trade and commerce, we will only be repeating the mistakes made by our predecessors in the 1929 crisis. today more than ever, what we need is more trade, not less trade. so if we were to create a real transatlantic economy with the united states, our main trading partner, without barriers, we would already have created 3.5 points of growth. that is what we must work on. we must stimulate growth not only to protect jobs but also, and above all, to create new ones. my colleagues on the left are calling for more social spending and more social security. they're supposedly protecting jobs by shutting down our economies. a transparent economy, which allows everyone to express their talents, is an innovative and sustainable economy. it is a social market economy that we must have. we must learn from the mistakes of the past few months, and one of the main problems in the financial sector was the lack of financial regulation and supervision. we will only be able to restore the confidence of our citizens in the economy when we have restored confidence in our financial system. to do that, we need to extend regulation and supervision to all financial institutions and all instruments, including hedge funds. we need to fight tax havens, we need to eliminate banking secrecy, we need to increase oversight of credit rating agencies. in a globalized economy, where markets never sleep, our only defense is transparency. investors need to know that the same standards and norms apply in different parts of the world. and finally, we also have a responsibility to the developing countries. the crisis must not destroy all the efforts we have made in this area over the years. that is why we must continue to press for the wto to adapt rapidly to the 21st century and to new rules. it is necessary to help the world's poorest nations become real players in the global economy. this will increase the world economy by $150 million a year. and developing countries will be receiving the bulk of that money. that is why we support the g20 commitment to allocate 850 billion additional resources to support growth in emerging markets and developing countries. ladies and gentlemen, the only way out of the economic and financial crisis is through change, change in international governance, change in our attitude of tolerance towards those who do not follow the rules.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the evaluation of the g20 results we have just heard success story, turning the tide of the crisis, huge success for the european union, etc. in my view raises two questions. the first concerns the analysis of the present situation of the world financial system, to which europe is closely linked, as we have seen. let us be clear: the g20 leaders' desire to send a reassuring message to the market, and indeed to the people, at all costs, has led them to greatly downplay the situation. in fact, the forecasts of supposed losses, but still largely hidden, of banks explode from month to month. the worst of this is not behind us, but ahead. we were talking about two trillion dollars in losses three months ago, which was already astronomical. now the imf estimates it at four trillion dollars. the commission has just estimated that the funds mobilised by the member states to save banks amount to three trillion euro, or one quarter of their gdp. that's the price of the mad race for money for profit and profit for money. this grim reality underlines the importance of my second question. what is the actual substance of the regulatory progress made at the g20 in london? when asked by joseph stiglitz, who, as you know, was appointed by the united nations to lead an independent panel of experts on the financial crisis, "do you agree with economist simon johnson that the regulatory component of the g20 is close to zero?" stiglitz replied, "i agree". the ink on the london declaration had not even dried when the main g20 member, the united states, used hedge funds comfortably established in tax havens to buy up the toxic assets that clog the balance sheets of american banks at a low price. we're swimming in the moralization of capitalism. the truth is that the g20 has done nothing to stop liberal globalization. it has ignored the key issue of reorganizing the international monetary system. he promoted the imf without any thought of transforming it. he has ignored the huge social issue that this crisis has created. he advocated homeopathic remedies where major surgery was clearly required. europe, i think, has to go far beyond the g20. the house is on fire. do you hear the cries of anger rising from our societies? they are not asking for a soothing word but for strong, concrete action now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the resolution which parliament will be voting on tomorrow, parliament will welcome the positions taken on credit rating agencies, which are aimed at increasing transparency and strengthening cooperation between national supervisory authorities. in this respect, europe has already shown the way. this morning coreper adopted the compromise reached between the member states, the commission and parliament. this afternoon parliament, in turn, adopted the compromise by an overwhelming majority of 569 votes to 47. the regulation proposed by the commission and amended by parliament will thus be able to enter into force rapidly. i would like to stress that this regulation lays the foundations for european supervision in the spirit of the proposals in the de larosière report. the eesc will be the single entry point for the registration of agencies and will initially play a coordinating role. the commission has committed itself to proposing in the coming months a legislative initiative which will make it possible to perfect a genuine european supervision. before concluding, i would like to stress that the restoration of confidence, which is the very objective of all the measures being taken, obviously requires better regulation, particularly of the financial system. but we must also take into account the fears of our fellow citizens and respond positively to them. they need to be given realistic messages of hope. without the improvement of the morale of our citizens, we will not regain consumer confidence, without which the recovery of the economy will not be possible. the information provided to our citizens should be balanced and honest and should not be biased towards defeatism by concealing the progress, successes and practical consequences of recovery plans, taking into account the time needed for them to produce their effects.
mr president, i wanted to say to president daul, who has left us, that it is still surprising to see the conservatives today accusing us socialists of wanting to increase social spending when their main argument for refusing stimulus plans is that in europe we have the so-called automatic stabilizers. what is this but unemployment benefits, which we have defended with a bang. the main criticism i have of the g20 is that they have adopted the barroso method, which is to add up the plans that already exist and to consider them as a recovery plan. this is not a stimulus package. and when we look at the figures from the oecd yesterday, the imf today, the commission tomorrow, how can we imagine that europe can remain at this level? we need a real european stimulus and for that, commissioner, you have no other way but to finance it with a european loan. it is time for you to get to work, even if this european parliament will no longer be here to help you in this task. finally, i note that the g20 had a task to perform, a message which was sent to it by dominique strauss-kahn on the eve of its work: 'the system will not start again until the problem of toxic products has been solved'. clearly, the g20 was incompetent in this respect. we have all the work to do. two points: the g20 conclusions estimate the benefits of the doha round at 150 billion dollars. where did that figure come from? how can we justify it? we are asking for an explanation, commissioner. finally, on supervision, if europe is to take the right path, it must urgently implement the proposals of the larosière group.
the president-in-office of the council. - madam member, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this debate. i would like to say unequivocally that i agree with mr daul, who has identified the key element of defence against protectionism. protectionism would be a kind of imaginary cancer that would definitely destroy our economy and turn against the citizens of the european union and only lead to a deepening of the economic crisis and a further decline in living standards. i also very much agree with mr daul's call for a transparent economy accompanied by an effective and i must say a reasonable level of regulation and, of course, the strengthening of global financial institutions. mr rasmussen and mrs starkevičiūtė have spoken about the infusion of money into the economy. i have to emphasize here that we don't put money into the economy to help financial institutions. if we do this, it is to help employment, to help people, to help them keep their jobs, because i think we can all agree that the most dignified way for european union citizens to make a living is to be able to make a living by working. but at the same time, in these steps, in the financial stimulus to the economy, we must not only think about ourselves, but also about our children and grandchildren, so that this step does not lead to some dramatic, long-term threat to the stability of public finances. our efforts must be focused on protecting employment, which is why the presidency, in cooperation with the european commission, will organise an employment summit, with priority given to employment measures. i would disagree with mrs lucas, i would strongly disagree that the g20 summit was a lost opportunity, but i must also call on all of us to be politically realistic. the current economy is sick, it needs treatment, it needs first aid, it needs long-term care, it needs some degree of recovery. we can't expect to see positive results immediately in three or four months. the problems that the world economy, and therefore the european economy, is currently facing have deeper roots, have been more long-term, and the cure will be more long-term and will require patience. i am convinced that the g20 summit was a positive step in this respect. mr wurtz criticised the depth of the financial market agreements. i agree that the european union needs to go deeper in many ways, and i am convinced that it is doing so. we must not only remember the actions taken by heads of state or government, but also those taken by finance ministers, which are very often summarized in the annexes to individual documents. i would also like to stress that the european finance commission has already been discussing further specific measures this week. but again, i would like to call for realism. in three or four months, you can't expect to find a miracle drug. the world economy is in trouble, and this cure will be very long-term. what is necessary to stress is that we must also act in a coordinated way within the european union. none of us is an island, and only a coordinated approach will enable us to successfully cope with the impact of the global economic crisis.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank you for a very serious and constructive debate. i will of course report this to the commission, president barroso and my colleague, joaquín almunia. i have two or three comments, firstly on the european economic recovery plan. like poul nyrup rasmussen, i have of course taken careful note of the latest imf economic outlook, which is indeed a very gloomy read. at the same time, it is essential to note that we have already taken very substantial and significant policy decisions to stimulate the european economy and the world economy. this has already, by and large, helped to stop the financial meltdown. but of course it is only honest to say that there will still be bad news coming from the real economy for some time, especially as regards increasing unemployment. therefore we have to be very alert and vigilant. we have to constantly assess how the economic recovery package, the fiscal stimulus and the financial reforms are working and producing results. if necessary, we will have to do more – and better – in the course of the coming months. we are doing our homework on the financial market reform, as a response to several colleagues. on the commission agenda next week, for instance, we have a major package of legislation concerning the financial markets, especially the director’s remuneration, and a recommendation on the remuneration policies in the financial services sector. this is a very important part of the reforms of the financial markets. finally, while the reform of the financial regulation in europe, and in the world globally, is indeed necessary in order to correct the system errors of financial capitalism, at the same time it is important that we do not throw the baby out with the bathwater as regards the market economy as such. in other words, we have to preserve the single market – which has been the engine of welfare in europe – and we have to work for a new world trade deal in the context of the world trade organisation. as mr daul said, we need more, not less, trade. this is especially important for developing countries, which are very badly hurt because of the current recession and the slowing-down of world trade. as replacement for louis michel next month, i am also involved in this because of my portfolio responsibilities. indeed, the developing countries are among those which are suffering most from this economic recession. therefore we should not lose momentum on rapidly reaching an ambitious conclusion of the doha development round. in the current economic climate the value of concluding doha has gone up very substantially. doha would boost the world economy and prevent protectionism from picking up. therefore all g20 countries should look beyond their domestic political garden and show a real commitment to moving ahead without delay as regards the doha development round. i think it is also important to note, from the point of view of development, that leaders in the g20 also agreed on a trade finance package worth usd 250 billion over two years to support global trade flows, to which europe will contribute substantially.
i would point out that at the end of this debate i received, in accordance with rule 103 (2), six motions for resolutions tabled by the six main groups in this house. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on friday 24 april 2009.
the agenda calls for a statement by the council and the commission on the situation in the republic of moldova, but above all i believe that mr watson wishes to draw the attention of this house to the presence in this chamber of prominent moldovan personalities.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, we are not going to approve such a report. firstly, its constant references to the lisbon treaty are unacceptable, since that treaty has not been ratified and probably never will be. the attempt to establish a pure and perfect supranationality, launched eight years ago by the great giscard convention, has been aborted. above all, we cannot accept the ironic tone of a report whose very title 'strengthening stability and prosperity in the balkans' is stupefyingly hypocritical. it is a startling report, which, with the obvious intention of preparing the accession of new countries, notably bosnia, the so-called macedonia, albania, why not kosovo, pretends that the present situation in the balkans is stable, completely ignoring the terrible game played by two great powers, the united states and germany, which have participated in the political decomposition of the entire region. to do this, i would remind you that the nato armada went so far as to bomb the capital of a european state, belgrade. the tenth anniversary of this tragic episode in the coming days will, of course, be overlooked, but i would like to recall it here. kosovo is the symbol of this enterprise of political decomposition. we can see the advantage that these powers can gain from such a zone of no law, open to all traffic and so conducive, of course, to the installation of military bases in the heart of our continent. but kosovo reveals the true face of a policy to balkanize europe. it is the europe of the germans, of the regions or of the ethnic groups, the europe of the hundred flags which, by eliminating the states, will gradually eliminate the popular will to disarm the peoples and hand them over to oligarchies of all kinds. all this is not mentioned in the report. it is in silence, under the cover of the usual grave of good feelings, that europe is being balkanized and neutralized until it is erased from history. but it is history that will judge all this. in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, i'll leave you to your work.
mr president, stability and prosperity in the balkans is the objective, because behind all this is peace in our region. the accession process is a tool, but it should not be a process that slowly turns into a penelope canvas, that is, one unknits at night what was knitted during the day. the balkans have a natural vocation to join the european union. this is a clear political will, this is a light which is a signal, especially to the peoples. the european union must not be allowed to become a mere mere institution, but must be a political entity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i want to see this in particular in the problems of bilateral conflicts. we must agree - and this is stated in the report - on a process for resolving bilateral problems, but without blocking the accession process. this is one way of making and re-making our enlarged european union to include all the balkan countries.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the marketing of construction products. i would like to thank the commission for its technical support and all the fictitious rapporteurs for their willingness and their spirit of dialogue, which has gradually brought us closer together on important points and positions on this dossier. while we fully support the objectives of the reform, which are better functioning of the market, more credibility for the ce marking, simplification of the system, and we share the undoubted interest in having a common technical language, a large majority of our members in the imco committee were keen to express their doubts. these doubts are primarily due to our unanimous desire to avoid simplifying and relaxing procedures which would lead to a change in the control and declaration of products. they also concern the position of the commission, which in our view tends to be satisfied with a situation where the choice of the criteria for evaluating products is partly left to the member states, which varies the actual meaning of the ce marking according to the country where the products are placed on the market, with problematic consequences in terms of credibility. finally, our reservations are based on the fact that, at a time when we want to put europe on the path to a green economy, the text proposed to us does not deal with the energy performance of products or even their partial danger to users. to address these concerns, the imco committee has introduced a series of amendments. i'll take five of them myself. firstly, we propose to maintain the requirement that all construction products placed on the market bear the ce marking in order to ensure that everything sold in europe has undergone the appropriate control procedures. this choice must not contribute to increasing the burden on the most fragile firms and thereby hampering their activity. that is why we have advocated the maintenance of simplified procedures for micro-enterprises and introduced a measure to exclude small craftsmen from the compulsory ce marking. the second point concerns the simplified procedures for easier access to the ce marking. however, we have chosen to restrict access to manufacturers of construction products, not to importers. this approach, which aims to improve market surveillance, will help to avoid the import of lower quality products via dubious importing companies. third major change, the introduction of a minimum level of harmonisation in the evaluation criteria for construction products in europe, so that the ce marking can have the same meaning regardless of the country where the product is marketed. we want the requirements for evaluating a product in europe to be common to all member states wherever possible. in this context, we have also introduced the possibility of creating new evaluation criteria which are not merely technical but which allow for the measurement of performance in relation to issues of general interest, such as the environment, safety or health risk. in the same spirit - and this will be my fourth point - we have contributed to a high-level reinforcement of the information transmitted to the user by the manufacturer through the declaration of performance. in particular, the manufacturer will be required to declare any dangerous substance now listed in an annex which also includes the elements mentioned in the reach directive. finally, and this is my final point, the members of the imco committee have sought to introduce a higher level of transparency as regards the conditions for the certification of construction products, more transparency as regards the place of undertakings in the certification process, and more transparency also as regards the clarification of the conditions for access to the ce marking, clearly distinguishing the access routes for products covered by a harmonised standard from the road routes for products which are not covered by a harmonised standard and which have often been described as innovative products. this work is indeed coming to a close, but it has not yet reached the point where we wanted to be. the difficulties encountered in the council with regard to the elaboration of a position did not allow it to be carried out, despite good cooperation by the french and czech presidencies. i regret that today, knowing that the time we have now thanks to the additional time may allow us, at second reading, to reach a much wider consensus, but above all, of course, to deepen our exchanges, which will make these positions for this sector more effective.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs neris on the work she has done on a technical subject which is particularly difficult for non-experts like us. the aim of the regulation proposed by the commission is to achieve a harmonised legislative framework, while maintaining flexibility and reducing administrative burdens and costs. i do not know whether we have always responded to this specifications, but at least we have tried, with the rapporteur and the other fictitious rapporteurs, to facilitate the work for the second reading since the council was unable to adopt a common position. i shall not go into detail, but i will use the few seconds i have left to explain the position of the adle on ce marking, one of the crucial points of this report. the adle on this subject follows the commission fully and has always taken a position against the proliferation of national markings. we will therefore vote in favour of the exclusive use of the ce marking, as well as for simplification of the procedures leading to it and for facilitation for micro-enterprises.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, thank you, commissioner, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for having contributed so much to this work. i would just like to make one comment: i have taken account of everything that has been said because i think that this work must continue. it seems to us important that this sector should be a little more structured within the community, but above all that the standard we want to be a little more comprehensive on ce marking should be much more consistent. in this sense, our desire is above all to build a little more europe for a better europe, and indeed these sensitive sectors, because we know that they are at the heart of our economies, are also levers for economic recovery. it would also be necessary to take measures on all the points we have mentioned. the last thing i had to say was in relation to what mr schwab said about all the studies, indeed. we will of course take into account the studies that have been carried out, not just to confirm what we have done, but to carry out a reassessment if necessary. i think that meeting the minds in this sector is essential to us, and we will do it. i thank you, commissioner, for the fruitful discussions and i hope that at second reading this text will not only be substantial but also adapted to the needs of our businesses in particular.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would first like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs who contributed to the adoption of this report in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mrs pietikäinen and mrs raeva in particular, and to congratulate the coordinators of the epp and liberal groups, mr gauzès and mr klinz, who played an important role in the adoption of this report in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which will be put to the vote in our plenary tomorrow. you know that at the end of the g20, a number of heads of state, not least in the european union, shouted victory, announcing, with much communication, that the era of banking secrecy was over. beyond these loud declarations, the european parliament, and i am glad of it, has moved on to practical work and has focused, rather than on communication, on how it could try to combat effectively tax evasion, which is estimated to amount to 200 billion euros each year, 200 billion euros which must be brought closer to what the european countries' recovery plans were in the face of the crisis, 200 billion euros which must be brought closer to the european union's budget, 200 billion euros which must also be brought closer to the level of the european countries' deficits. the european taxpayers are now perfectly justified in calling on the european banking sector, and therefore on european banks, to make efforts to enable the tax administrations of the member states to recover part of the tax revenues that have been stolen from them by evasion or fraud. we had a job that was constructive work and i think it avoided sinking into the ukase or the denunciation of each other. we have made progress in three directions, and i want to welcome the text proposed by the european commission and the work done by commissioner kovács, which was undoubtedly in the right direction. we have tried, to the best of our ability, in line with what the european taxpayers tell us, to improve the commission's text in three ways. we felt that, within the scope of the directive, the text was a little too timid, both in terms of the legal structures involved and in the definition of savings products. we know that financial engineering has a considerable imagination when it comes to inventing new financial products to enable certain individuals to escape taxation, hence the proposal by parliament and the commission to set up a comitology procedure which adapts the definition of savings products to what is now the reality of financial engineering. but in this respect many products are currently excluded from the scope and, in our view, should be integrated as soon as possible; this is particularly the case for certain forms of retirement savings which operate by capitalisation, and more generally we believe that the proposal to include products which guarantee 95% of the investment do not offer sufficient guarantees. that is why the 90% threshold seems more reasonable to us. amendments to this effect will be tabled in plenary tomorrow. we'll see if they're adopted. i regret that we have not found a compromise on this point in committee, and i hope that the plenary will send a strong signal by defining savings products as products which guarantee 90% of the capital and not just 95%, as the commission proposes. one point, however, has led to a broad consensus on how to extend the scope of the directive, particularly in the drafting of annexes i and iii. the report also considerably strengthens annex i, since we have drawn up a very broad list of tax havens which does not spare any jurisdiction, including delaware and nevada, unlike the g20 list. we are putting the burden of proof on these courts that legal constructions defined in a broader way than the commission either do not exist in their territory or are tax transparently transparent, and i believe that this inversion of the burden of proof is a more effective way of fighting tax evasion. the main weakness of this text, however - and i conclude here - concerns the transitional period granted to three member states: belgium, austria and luxembourg. even though belgium has announced that it will abandon the withholding tax, i want the automatic exchange of information to be generalized and, in order for it to be generalized, a deadline to be set for the end of the transition period, and that is why, even though we have adopted the principle of a study assessing the respective merits of the withholding tax and the exchange of information for 2011, at the time of the revision of the directive, we want a deadline to be set for 2014 to end this transition period. i mean we tried to work in a spirit of transparency and improved transparency at a time when european taxpayers are being called upon to contribute, in particular to the rescue of the european banking sector.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i will be very brief, since i have already said a great deal. i would first like to thank mrs raeva and mrs siitonen and the other members for their speeches and contributions to this text and to tell mr kovács that i think i have heard what he has said. but i think that a strong signal from the european parliament tomorrow on the question of scope, on the question of banking secrecy and on the question of the list of tax havens will be of great help to the council, especially if we have to negotiate new agreements with third countries tomorrow. and then i would like to conclude with what mrs lulling has reproached me and mr kovács - very kindly indeed - for 'mixing the towels and the towels', but it was very kindly done. i would like to say to him that i think that tomorrow this parliament, if it sometimes mixes towels and towels, will be able to distinguish between the general interest and the particular interests, and i hope that we will have thus contributed better to the fight against tax evasion.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the january 2009 plenary session we adopted two pieces of legislation on the sustainable use of pesticides and on the procedures for placing plant protection products on the market. the negotiations on these texts were passionate and made real progress in protecting human health and the environment. but both would be nothing without it. this regulation is the backbone of the other two. as you recalled, commissioner, these statistics are necessary to know the evolution of the placing of products on the market, but also their use, and above all to calculate the risk indicators defined in the report on the sustainable use of pesticides. i would also like to stress that i think we have struck a balance between the necessary transmission of data and the confidentiality of data, but also the proportionate administrative burden, since this is a concern for users. as regards biocides, it is important to stress that this text should eventually cover them on the basis of the results of an impact assessment. we have been wondering about the commercial uses of pesticides outside of agriculture. at present, any estimate of their volume can only be intuitive. for this reason, the pilot studies to be conducted by the european commission will prove very enlightening. finally, i would like to thank our rapporteur, who has been with us throughout the negotiations and has made a major contribution to our reaching an agreement.
the agenda calls for the report by monica frassoni, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the 25th annual report of the commission on monitoring the application of community law (2007) (2008/2337 (ini)) (a6-0245/2009).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
the agenda calls for the joint discussion of: the report by margarita starkevičūė, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cross-border payments in the community (com ((2008) 0640 - c6-0352/2008 - 2008/0194 ((cod)) (a6-0053/2009), and the report by john purvis, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the taking up and pursuit of the business of electronic money institutions and the prudential supervision of electronic money institutions, amending directives 2005/60/ec and 2006/48/ec and repealing directive 2000/46/ec (com ((2008) - c276-0350/2008 - 2008/0190 ((cod)) (a5600/2009).
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would like to comment on the report by mr john purvis on electronic money. firstly, i think that if we ask why electronic money is less developed here than in hong kong, it is probably because european citizens have become accustomed to using their bank cards with great ease. the concerns of this parliament in the drafting of this legislation will have been twofold: firstly, at a time when the issues of supervision are on everyone's lips, we did not want, simply because of the insistence of the lobby of the electronic money institutions, to deregulate the supervision of the latter. that is why this european parliament has insisted above all on the fact that those institutions which issue electronic money, which manage electronic money, should be subject to genuine supervision, and i believe that we have obtained a number of guarantees in this area. i'm glad to hear it. we have also been concerned to take account of the interests of citizens and of those who use this electronic money, particularly when they want to terminate their contract, so that they do not have to face constraints and charges which we would have considered excessive from the institutions managing this electronic money. that is the spirit in which we supported this proposal, hoping that it would make life easier for our fellow citizens through the use of electronic money, but that it would not lead to deviations, particularly with regard to the supervisory mechanisms.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place today.
the agenda calls for the report by horst schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down health rules concerning animal by-products not intended for human consumption (animal by-products regulation) (com (2008) 0345) c6-0220/2008 2008/0110 (cod)) (a6-0087/2009).
author. - mr president, the final declaration of the durban i review conference, in which afghanistan is participating, concludes today that it is absolutely necessary to make all forms of violence against women criminal offences punishable by law and to condemn any legal arsenal of discrimination, including religious discrimination. at the same time, afghanistan is promoting legislation that applies only to the shia population, and clearly discriminates against women in the areas of marriage, divorce, child custody, inheritance and access to education. we're in the middle of schizophrenia. what afghanistan agrees to in geneva, it cannot refuse in kabul. by participating in the durban ii conference, afghanistan made firm commitments to eradicate multiple discrimination. it is imperative for its credibility that it should now take action. by refusing to enact this law, the minister of justice and the president would be demonstrating their willingness to commit their country to comply with its own obligations in respect of human rights. gender equality is clearly enshrined in the afghan constitution and in international conventions to which afghanistan is a party. the authorities have a duty not to give in to extremism and not to back down. this is ultimately the fate of a society that is crystallized in this bill, and afghan society has already expressed its desire not to remain outside of these debates. women are fighting and deserve all the support and protection of their state. it is up to the authorities to meet their obligations and demonstrate their ability to guarantee their commitments, and it is up to the european civilian forces on the ground to support them in this ambitious reconstruction and to be exemplary. let us not forget that the abuses committed by our armies and the fact that afghanistan is plunging into war and misery have only the effect of inflating the ranks of the extremists.
mr president, i am indeed glad that this debate is taking place, because we have been trying to put it on the agenda for a number of sessions. so today, shortly before the end of this mandate, we really want to stress that sierra leone - one of the poorest countries in the world - which has really succeeded in setting up this special tribunal to try the horrors of those responsible, should be supported. i believe, having been the head of the european union's election observation mission in sierra leone, that it is really our political and moral responsibility to support this tribunal, because it would be really unacceptable and unimaginable that, for reasons perhaps financial, this tribunal could not continue its work. so i really call on the commission to support him, financially of course. at that time, the judges of these courts had already asked us to support financially the continuation of this special court. but today it is at the political level, since it expires in 2010. we have to... (the president cut off the speaker's microphone)
mr titley, i will, of course, pass on your request. *** the minutes of the previous sitting are approved.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
mr tannock, i have been informed and all the linguistic corrections will be made. - after the vote.
mr. martin, all this will be checked.
i just said it would be checked. that means it will be checked immediately. we'll take care of it.
madam president, i will be very brief on this point. since one of our colleagues has made an accusation, i will ask him to specify his accusation. and as you said, the investigation must take place immediately, and if, as i believe, it turns out, after the investigation, that his accusation is slanderous, i ask that all the consequences be drawn.
i said the audit would be done. it's going to be done immediately, so i'll keep you updated in the next few minutes.
i'm here to tell you that there's no voting rights abuse. to avoid any further discussion, i will inform the president, and president pöttering will tell you what the consequences will be.
i can assure you, mr rapporteur, that all the language versions will be checked for this.
i have to say, mr president, that we have already asked ourselves this question and we are going to look at it because it is a real question and a real problem.
madam president, i would like to speak here because we had a very important debate in the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the issue of borrowing, and the epp had tabled an amendment to the effect that there was no legal basis for a european borrowing. we agreed on an amendment which we drafted after an agreement with werner langen, who was the epp's main negotiator, even though he was not the fictitious rapporteur in this case, to add that there is no specific legal basis for the community loan; i am therefore rather surprised that informed experts have informed me that there is a negative to this amendment on the epp list, and i would like to give mr langen the opportunity to correct the epp list.
yes, yes, we will absolutely check all the language versions, mrs. pack.
let us now move on to the explanations of vote.
mr. rogalski, you were able to verify that i asked that we go immediately to see if it was true or false. so, it's settled then. it was wrong. it is therefore entered in the official journal. i now ask the president of this parliament to take the necessary steps, and we shall see at that time in the bureau.
if it's all the same to you, i've done everything you said. you saw that we tried to deal with things quickly because, in fact, it was important. i agree with you completely, and we shall see what happens.
i take note of what you say, mr. member. we all agree that we must be careful here, as they say, but you must know, mr president, that in general such things always turn against the author.
in writing. this report will provide the european union with a more precise legislative framework to enhance the level of safety throughout the food production and distribution chain. the text has the merit of proposing a more risk-based and control-based approach, of strengthening the coherence of animal by-product provisions and hygiene legislation, and of introducing additional rules on the traceability of animal by-products. i can also testify that mr schnellhardt's previous report on food hygiene (2002) had a very positive impact in empowering the european poultry-breeding world. the transposition of this regulation into national law has indeed had positive effects on the ground, in particular by improving the training of the 7 million european hunters who, through their constant action on the environment, are able to detect rapidly and effectively health crises affecting wildlife. i therefore support this report, which will enable the european union to better prevent and respond to food crises linked to products of animal origin.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 1.15 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i think that argument is beyond the pale. it is not a question of adopting the treaty of lisbon. it's just a matter of being prepared for when it's passed. if it is not adopted, then everything we have decided will be a sham. but if it is adopted - and that would be in october - this parliament will have to work differently from november. it would be irresponsible not to prepare. that is why we should have this debate and make a decision. and, madam president, i think it is particularly unfair to your colleague, sylvia kaufmann, who will unfortunately be leaving this parliament, that you do not even give her the chance to see such an important report adopted at the end of her career in the european parliament. on behalf of your colleague sylvia kaufmann, i speak against you! (applause from the centre)
president of the pech commission. mr president, the problem is simply that we will not have the time. it is not serious to start thinking today, in the few hours that remain, about a subject that will not be resolved until 2012 or 2013. we discussed this in committee at the meeting on 30 april. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
mr president, president mitterrand used to say that there are two ways of doing politics: the way of the notary clerks and the way of the cooks. i am referring to this alternative in the context of the accession process of the countries of the former yugoslavia and albania. i have the impression, when i listen to and read the commission's statements of position, that people are identifying themselves with the profession of notary clerk by scrupulously noting the completed chapters, adding, if necessary, additional steps such as bilateral problems between slovenia and croatia. i think we're making a fundamental mistake here. in this case, we should rather identify ourselves with the cook, to combine delicately and with finesse the ingredients and the cultural diversity, to embellish the dishes, to take advantage of these new countries and their contribution to enriching our europe. europe remains an ideal of respect, tolerance and diversity, a factor of peace, especially for the western balkans, and it requires that vision, a vision of this community of destiny. there is nothing worse in this time of major economic crisis than to turn in on ourselves, to take refuge in a panic of fear of the other, of the stranger. let us remember the approach of the founding fathers of europe and apply it to these countries of the western balkans.
mr president, i would like to address the commissioner and express my concern. the virus seems to be stabilizing in mexico, europe, etc. and already today on the radio i hear comments that perhaps we have done too much, perhaps we have worried our fellow citizens too much. but, commissioner, what concerns me is not what is happening now; what worries me is what's going to happen next october when we arrive on the eve of winter. we know very well that viruses don't like high temperatures. so the danger is not there now; but it will reappear in the next october, november, next winter. what we would like to know, commissioner, is what you are planning to do to make sure that we are fully prepared to deal with this virus which is likely to develop and which may mutate by then. they say we need to make vaccines; but these vaccines that we're going to develop, are we sure they're going to work in all scenarios? these are all the questions i'm asking myself. the worry is for next winter. we must therefore communicate, explain to our fellow citizens that, in any case, there is no question of letting our guard down, we must remain vigilant and, perhaps, commissioner, could you distribute a sort of little guide to help our fellow citizens adopt the right behaviour?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate and thank mrs estrela for the whole of her report and for the quality of this report. it was necessary for the commission and parliament to address this issue. it was urgent that measures be taken to protect pregnant women, women who are in labour or breastfeeding, and it was essential to ensure that their rights were respected. from this point of view, the report is very balanced: regulation of night work, protection against dismissals, rights linked to social protection and employment contracts, defence of these rights, in particular those of paid maternity leave. i do not agree with mrs estrela's proposal on the length of maternity leave and the obligation to take paternity leave. it is true that motherhood still hinders young women's professional careers. so the very important aspect of returning mothers to work should not be overlooked. the impact of maternity leave should not become a sanction for women. too long maternity leave will inevitably reduce the chances of women returning to the labour market in good conditions. the commission's proposal to set this leave at 18 weeks, with realistic measures, is therefore an excellent one, since it takes account of both the position of employees and that of employers. if we want to combat discrimination and defend women's rights, we must ensure that women do not have to resign themselves to a total interruption of their professional activity, that this remains an explicit life choice. the hypocrisy of free choice, which is often the direct result of the wage gap between men and women and the inadequacy of childcare facilities, must be denounced. as far as paternity leave is concerned, i do not think it has a place in this directive, but if paternity leave is to be maintained, we must return to something more flexible. the vote in committee on the compromise reducing paternity leave from four to two weeks is already a step forward; but why make it an obligation? i am of the opinion that the father should be given a place, but it should not become a poisoned gift, and if the combined effects of the father and mother's presence are to be beneficial both for the newborn and for the parents, the notion of choice must remain. the reconciliation of work and life is at the heart of the european social project. to support such a major cultural change, it must be freely agreed.
madam president, parliament and its rapporteur have been forced to reject a bad compromise. they were right to do it. our delegation remained faithful to the position adopted very widely in the plenary, which called for the abolition, in due course, of all derogations from the legal working time. but the truth is that parliament was the only one who wanted to make things happen. the representatives of the european people had decided to go beyond the partisan divisions to put an end to this archaism called the opt-out. we were the only ones to propose a genuine compromise text which the council of ministers has brilliantly ignored, as has the commission. the council and the commission have aligned themselves with those who are fiercely opposed to any progress on workers' rights in europe. mr president-in-office, it is clear that you have achieved your objective. the court of justice requires you to consider all the time you're on duty as working time; so you haven't lost anything on that side. the opt-out you want still exists in practice, so immobility has won. more than ever, the members elected in june will have to fight for a harmonization of social standards from the top down.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. - madam president, i do not share the view of my colleagues, nor do i share the view of mr dimas, because i remember the opinion of the legal adviser to the council and i also remember the opinion of the legal adviser to parliament, who both informed us that the legal basis used was wrong. i've got it. let us not forget, mr dǐmas, that you are removing the products derived from the seal hunt but you are not replacing them with anything, which is not legal. i would like to say that the canadians know this, and that they intend to exercise their right of appeal to the wto, mr dǐmas. they are not going to deprive themselves of it and we cannot stop them, and i think they are perfectly right to do so. the bad compromise - the compromise, i think, is very bad - that some of my colleagues will vote tomorrow, without me, because i will vote against - will be made on the eve of the eu-canada summit. this is almost the war the european union is declaring on our canadian friends. i hope that my colleagues in parliament know exactly what they are doing. i would also like to say to my colleagues in parliament and to mr dǐmas that they are paying for a good campaign on the backs of the seals and on the backs of canadians, because we are not regulating anything in terms of seal hunting. we're just moving the problem. you said yourself, you don't ban the seal hunt, mr. dǐmas. you're shifting the problem to china or other countries, probably, that will be able to accept these products. it's not settled. so i think this compromise is wrong. i think we got rid of the problem, we didn't solve anything and there's really nothing to be proud of. nor is it a cause for pride to see the price of inuit fur fall. the text has not yet been voted on, the compromise has not been adopted and these people are in great economic misery because of us. i'm not a self-satisfied person.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr parish, on the quality of his work and the importance he has attached to cooperation with fictitious rapporteurs. before we vote tomorrow on first reading, i should like to return to the main lines of this report. the negative image that animal testing can have in the public mind today confirms the undeniable importance of this issue. like me, you have received a large number of letters from concerned citizens in the last few weeks. but while it is our duty to propose a text which takes account of the fears of the latter, we must not neglect the demands of the research professionals. i would like to stress that we must not forget that researchers are not only legitimate representatives of public opinion, but above all people whose role is absolutely fundamental in our society. it should be noted that in the last 20 years the number of animals used for scientific purposes has not increased, while the number of scientific publications in the field of biomedical research has doubled every two years. in order to understand the challenges of the revision of this directive, i myself met a large number of stakeholders representing the various sensitivities related to the issue. in my view, the original text proposed by the european commission was really moving away from the fundamental objective of using animals, which is to advance research. it was therefore essential to put the question of human health back at the heart of the debate. of course, the provisions on animal testing must be changed, but european research must not suffer the negative consequences of this new legislation. the strategy i adopted, and which was followed by the rapporteur, was therefore to rebalance this proposal to ensure that researchers are not harmed. i believe that we can arrive, on the basis of the report adopted by the committee on agriculture, at a coherent and reasonable text which i hope will be broadly supported by parliament.
mr president, our fellow citizens are calling for more research, particularly in the biomedical field, to find new treatments for diseases for which there is no cure yet. this is the case, among others, with all neurodegenerative diseases, such as parkinson's and alzheimer's. we also know that we need animal testing, and fortunately animal testing has decreased a lot in recent years because we have set ourselves the goal of finding alternative solutions. but unfortunately, we know that in some cases, those solutions don't exist, and we still need to resort to this animal experimentation, especially on non-human primates. in that case we must do everything possible to ensure that european research remains within europe so that we can provide the maximum protection. to take into account the pain of the animal during an experiment is to give yourself every guarantee that this experiment will produce good results. so let's keep our research and, most importantly, let's keep animal testing as well. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively.
mr president, commissioner, i refer to the working document by mrs mccarthy and mrs wallis which, for the use of the next parliament, raises the issues raised by this proposal for maximum harmonization and the risk that some countries feel that their own consumer protection is being weakened. on the other hand, the commission is right to want to expand crossborder consumption, which is abnormally low in a single market. i shall not therefore go back to the substance - mrs mccarthy said so - but i would like to give some advice, if i may, to the commission. firstly, i hope that mrs kuneva will continue her work and that she will be able to get a horizontal draft directive adopted. but you can only do this if you first assess very accurately the impact on all national legislation - what is not done; secondly, if you position this proposal very precisely in relation to existing and planned regulations, directives and conventions at community level - what is not done? thirdly, if you write very precisely that certain principles, for example the hidden vice, are safeguarded what is not done; fourthly, if you indicate - and this is the most important - what level of protection will result from the implementation of the directive, and not just what provisions will be involved. in this sense, the proposal is not what is called a clear act. that is what we must achieve: harmonization that increases the level of protection. to sum up, ma'am, you went a little fast. my advice is to take your time and, with that time, to present all the arguments that will enable you to convince the governments and this european parliament.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on: recommendation for second reading of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2002/22/ec on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services, council directive 2002/58/ec on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector and regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws (16497/1/2008 - c6-0068/2009 - c6-0068/2009 - c24/08 (cod)) (rapporteur: malcolm harbour) (a6-024/2009), recommendation for second reading of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the common position of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2002/22/ec on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services, council directive 2002/58/ec on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector, and council regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws (164677/08/ec) (cod) (codirective 2007/324/ec of the european parliament and council directive 2002/22/ec on the protection of the internal market for electronic communications services in the information society of the european union), council directive 2002/22/ec (codirective on the internal market for electronic communications sector and consumer, and consumer) (codirective 2002/226/ec) (codirective 2002/57/ec) (codirective 2002/56/ec of the european parliament and the internal market for electronic communications services, and the internal market, and the internal market, and the internal market in electricity of the internal energy, and consumer
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be voting on the telecoms package, the final step in months of work and negotiations to reach this compromise, which was achieved after a great deal of struggle with the council in a context where the three institutions were taking divergent positions. i would like to begin by sincerely thanking my colleagues del castillo, harbour, pleguezuelos, the fictitious rapporteurs, the political groups, the committee chairmen and their secretariats, the council presidency and the european commission for their hard work over these long months, and i thank all the colleagues who have chosen to trust me and support me. the advances made possible by this package are many. they are about consumers, offering them better services at fairer prices. telecommunications are characterised by their impact on daily life and play an obvious social role as a vehicle for development and growth. the telecommunications sector alone provides more than 3.5 million jobs and represents an increasing share of the european economy, at nearly 3.5%. well-regulated competition allows a balance between old and new operators and ensures significant growth in the sector through legal certainty, which in turn encourages investment. that is why, throughout this round of negotiations, we have fought, with my fellow rapporteurs and our fictitious rapporteurs, to make this a regulatory framework that benefits everyone. the itre committee, in april, approved the penultimate stage of the legislative process, adopting the overall compromise on my report and that of pilar del castillo by a very large majority. we have laid the foundations for a solid compromise which i hope will receive your full support in the vote tomorrow, as will the reports by malcolm harbour and francisca pleguezuelos. i would also like to return to amendment no 138/46 and clarify the meaning and scope of the text on which parliament and the council agreed, the so-called 'last-chance compromise'. the council has consistently rejected this amendment from the moment it was voted at first reading, by removing it from its common position and refusing to mention it in the recitals or articles. the european parliament showed its support for this amendment by including in the compromise the key elements of amendment 46: defence of freedoms, right to a trial and recourse to a court - the expression most consistent with that of the judicial authority - and introduced two additional provisions for internet users: the affirmation of the indispensable nature of the internet for the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms, specified with reference to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the spirit and the letter of amendment no 46 have thus been respected and extended to the benefit of users, and the rejection of this amendment by the member states on the grounds that the european parliament cannot impose on them a change in their internal legal system which would be necessary for the application of this amendment has been avoided. its place in article 1 concerning scope and objectives gives this proposal the meaning of a principle valid for all the directives of the package, in particular for access and services. the legal weakness created by the linking of amendment no 46 to article 8, which defines the tasks of the national regulators, is thus resolved. we are faced, ladies and gentlemen, with a choice: to support amendment no 46 as it stands, with the consequence of referring the whole telecom package to conciliation which will reopen the discussion on all the achievements of the negotiations and will lead to its withdrawal because of the massive opposition of the member states to this amendment, or to support the new wording of amendment no 46, which guarantees respect for fundamental freedoms, thus confirming what parliament adopted when voting on the lambrinidis report. i would add that the presence of article 1 (3a) and its recital will have to be taken into account in the transposition of the directive and will enable parliament to legislate subsequently. in view of this choice, i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to think about the future of our work in the next parliamentary term, which will concern, among other things, the universal service but also content and intellectual property, and i would therefore ask you to support the new proposal, in order to treat the rights of employees, artists and internet users on an equal footing.
madam president, the so-called hadopi law, which is being prepared in paris, is in fact a liberticidal law, for the legitimate purpose of protecting artistic creation. the text does not promote creation. he's just organizing a widespread police investigation of internet activity. it does not contain any concrete proposals to improve the legal supply of cultural goods. it is pathetically behind on the technical possibilities of hiding or impersonating an ip address. it is a regression from the private copy right for which everyone pays a tax on digital media. it gives a purely administrative authority an exorbitant power of prosecution and punishment. it restores the double penalty for internet users who are denied access to the web but are required to continue paying for their subscription. he also violates the presumption of innocence and the right to defend himself. by today's rejection of this law worthy of communist china or other totalitarian regimes, which mr sarkozy wants to force through, this parliament would reaffirm the right of everyone to respect for his privacy, access to information, freedom of expression and due process of law. it's absolutely necessary.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs and the fictitious rapporteurs. we have all worked very hard over the last few months to achieve what i believe is a coherent and high-quality package. the negotiations were not easy, either in parliament or with the council and the commission, but opinions have changed a great deal since the first vote in the parliamentary committee, when the content of the package completely overshadowed the rest of the package. the commission has also been very active in the field of consumer protection. i hope that this time it will be different, not only because the compromises made on fundamental freedoms and respect for privacy are good, but also because this case represents a tremendous potential for both consumers and the telecommunications industries and their employees. the compromise found on the framework directive and the universal service directive clearly refer to the obligation for member states to respect the principles of the right to a fair trial, which can only reassure those opposed to the french plan for sanctions by an administrative entity. these texts are anything but a trojan horse of graduated response and even go against its principle. another concern is the neutrality of the internet and the issue of access restrictions. the final text is very clear on this. any network management policy is justified only if it maintains a minimum level of service quality and does not discriminate between services and applications, all of which must be controlled by national regulatory authorities. i also want to stress what we have achieved for consumers under the universal service directive. it will now be impossible for an operator to take refuge behind technical feasibility issues in order to not provide reliable access to emergency services and the location of the 112 user. this is a point of vital importance for the safety of european citizens, and it will finally be settled, although it has been technically possible for years, but some authorities and operators have preferred to sacrifice safety on the altar of savings in investment. the same applies to improving the transparency and quality of the information to be provided on contracts in a compulsory and regular manner. consumers will be able to benefit from price studies tailored to their consumption profile or alert messages in case of abnormal overruns of their package, which is particularly useful with special rates abroad or for young people, heavy users of overcharged sms. the duration of contracts will now be limited to 24 months, with the obligation for operators to offer contracts of 12 months, and in the event of a change of operator, this must be effective within one day. we have achieved maximum access for disabled users and the revision of the scope of the universal service to include mobile by next year. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will vote on this final text, which is the result of months of negotiations, without being disturbed by concerns which, if they are understandable, given the fundamental importance of the matter...
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all welcome the work of our fellow rapporteurs on the telecommunications package which will be put to the vote tomorrow, because it is a good text. it takes into account all the dimensions of the communications revolution we are experiencing: telecommunications networks, regulation, economic aspects, consumer rights and internet access. on this last point, however, i must express the disappointment of the delegation of the democratic movement. the compromise reached last week for mrs trautmann's report on this particular issue is not satisfactory. the weakness of this wording lies in the absence of any consideration of the case-law relating to article 6 of the european convention on human rights. this wording, in fact, only legitimizes the attempts of the french government to impose its concept of high administrative authority, the famous "hadopi". there are people who are afraid of the internet, people who do not understand its evolution or its interest. these people often say that the internet is a no-go zone. it is precisely so that the internet is not a zone of no-right that the delegation of the democratic movement believes that the interruption of internet access should not be an administrative decision but a judicial decision. the internet is a great tool for exercising fundamental rights. some see administrative management as the solution. this tells us how much they value fundamental rights. the rules that guarantee freedom of communication between people are timeless and do not depend on one medium or another. the right to a judicial procedure must not be called into question under any circumstances.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank mrs reding, our commissioner, the french presidency, which in december achieved a very intelligent common position, and then the czech presidency, which has just achieved its goals, and i would like to thank and congratulate in particular our three rapporteurs, malcolm harbour, catherine trautmann and pilar del castillo, who have done a magnificent job. the package we are voting on today contains provisions which are entirely in line with what we would like for the development of the telecommunications market, in order and for the benefit of all: european regulation entrusted to a berec with joint financing, without veto, a balance between competition and the need for new investment functional separation is limited to exceptional cases a concern to pay attention to public services in spectrum management, new services, new accesses, liberalised, and consumer rights thanks to malcolm harbour in particular considerably increased. i have a simple regret for the rejection of the "must carry". for france, this text is perfectly balanced, it is a good final compromise, and i want to say in this respect that what was proposed at the end, concerning the famously controversial amendments, seems to me to be intelligent, because it gives the possibility of implementing intellectual property on the internet without compromising freedom of access. the internet must enforce the law in this area as in others. the virtual world is not a lawless world and should not be subject only to the powers of advertising by operators and isps. that is why i share catherine trautmann's view. the compromise puts equal rights on the table for employees, artists, and internet users, which is good.
the rapporteur. - madam president, thank you very much, commissioner, for your statement which sheds a very positive light on the debate which has just taken place, and i thank all the members who have spoken. i would like to say that our parliament, by voting this compromise on the telecom package, is clearly making a choice. it is a regulated market, not a market without rules. it also shows a strategy, a development strategy that is useful in a crisis context and that prepares european society for the digital age. this vote will also ensure a balance between the prerogative of the states and the powers of the commission, between old operators and new entrants, thanks to the clauses which defend non-discrimination, but it will also mark progress for the european parliament itself in the exercise of its power of codecision, in particular in the area of spectrum allocation policy, which is considered a public good, and in its support, once again, for broadcasters and services. many colleagues have spoken on the issue of the internet as a public space, which as such requires - and i agree with them - freedom and security, hence the link between its accessibility and the fundamental rights of citizens, for the first time in a directive, with the new version of amendment no 46. the expression 'measures taken' is, in a sense, the missing link between any measures taken concerning electronic communications networks, whether cutting off or filtering, and the fundamental rights of users. and as regards the doubts of my colleagues about the rapporteur's willingness to defend a judgment before any cuts, i would like to say that the phrase 'independent and impartial tribunal' is a phrase which guarantees internet users the right to such a judgment. indeed, to demonstrate that hadopi is an independent and impartial tribunal would be to impose on that high authority all the obligations which a judge must respect: right of defence, adversarial procedure, publicity. it is obvious that this would lead to the implosion of a system which, in the french law as it is being debated, is essentially based on the automation and massification of charges and penalties. i therefore ask the european commission to exercise its utmost vigilance in the future transposition of this telecom package. when a fundamental principle is enshrined in a community text which is the subject of a compromise between the council and the european parliament as co-legislators, it must be correctly transposed into national law. and i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that i welcome the possibility of a broad public consultation in the manner of the multi-partnership method, which will allow us to work on the basis of our hard work, within the framework of a compromise which respects the right expressed in amendment no 46 and makes it applicable.
in writing. we have reached a good compromise on this report, which will allow us to obtain a balanced regulation that meets the requirements of the european union in the field of food safety. by prohibiting the marketing of frozen poultry meat as a 'fresh product', by refusing to use toxic substances such as chlorine to decontaminate chicken carcasses and by opting for clear labelling of the origin and date of slaughter of the animal, we have put common sense first and chosen to defend the interests of the european consumer as a priority. in adopting the resolution of june 2008, parliament had already strongly expressed its opposition to the authorisation of the marketing of 'chlorinated chicken' on the european market and was followed by the agriculture ministers at the council meeting last december. today's vote confirms our commitment to ensuring that the european union has the safest possible food from farm to fork.
in writing. i voted against this report by my greek social democrat colleague, mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou, on the organisation of working time for people engaged in mobile road transport activities. my vote was motivated by the fact that this report, which seeks to organise the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities, would in fact have resulted in the exclusion of independent road hauliers from european legislation on the organisation of working time. i share the view of my socialist colleagues that we cannot accept a two-tiered social legislation: legislation which protects some but leaves road hauliers on the side of the road. the adoption of the commission's proposal would have created an unacceptable discrimination between employed road haulage drivers, who are protected by european regulations, and the self-employed. parliament has noted our reservations. it is now up to the newly elected parliament to decide during the new parliamentary term.
in writing. the report by mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou proposes to reject the commission's proposal to amend the european parliament and council directive on the organisation of working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities. i voted in favour of this report which rejects a proposal from the european commission which will not make it possible to correct the shortcomings in the implementation and monitoring of the rules on driving time and rest periods directly linked to social security and social rights. furthermore, no clarification is given as to the scope of this directive and the possible checks. in any event, the member states must remain the sole masters in this area. finally, the proposal does not define the concept of 'mobile workers' or 'independent drivers' any better. and for good reason! that is the real problem with this directive. should all selfemployed drivers be excluded from this directive? the question remains, because the problem is complex. there is a widespread practice of 'fake selfemployed' workers, who are actually employees of companies who, for reasons of profitability, circumvent the rules on driving time and rest periods.
in writing. the european commission's text is a contradiction. it is contrary to science, because it hinders and penalizes research. against medical progress, because scientists who use animal testing work every day to find the drugs and treatments that will cure the new pandemics of tomorrow. it is a social and economic contradiction. while our pharmaceutical companies will be banned from research, laboratories established outside the european union will be able to sue them! the parish report fortunately balances things out, because i will not support either a weakening of the competitiveness of our industry or an encouragement to relocations.
in writing. the european commission's initiative to revise the current directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes means that the eu can play a key role in the research and development of non-animal tests and technologies. the scope of this directive must be extended. some of the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture, which are contrary to the protection of laboratory animals, were contrary to this objective. it is essential that european research should not suffer from this and should instead be developed. however, this must not be at the expense of animal welfare or the development and validation of methods for the complete substitution of animal use. the development of these alternative methods requires a budget. it is also essential that the use of non-human primates in research be phased out, monitored and made more transparent.
in writing. it is time for the partners concerned to look at the welfare of animals used for research purposes and to stop trapping wild monkeys for livestock farms: violence, stress during capture and then confinement, separation of family groups, broken social groups, impact on the environment, disruption of the natural balance of the population, withdrawal of females. we will therefore support the objective of using as many animals as possible which are bred for these purposes and for which the genetic and health history is known, thus presenting better data consistency and reproducibility. on the other hand, if welfare standards for animals used for research were to result in research being exported, the impact would be more evident in those countries which already operate under strict regulatory controls such as switzerland or the united kingdom. yet, the pharmaceutical industry in these countries has continued to prosper despite 20 years of strict regulation. regulation has therefore not been a hindrance to the success of this industry. controls have even improved the standards of scientific practice. this therefore supports the fear that research will be exported as a result of regulations.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the european council which will conclude the czech presidency is still quite vague, both as to its date and its content. so it is a somewhat difficult exercise that we are undertaking today, but it is also an opportunity for us to reaffirm our priorities at the end of this parliamentary term. the june european council will first have to appoint the new president of the european commission, in accordance with the results of the european elections. as in 2004, the council presidency will be asked to choose a person from the main european parliamentary group to hold this important post, and it will then be up to our parliament, on 15 july, to express its opinion on this choice, which will be one of the first major political acts of this new legislature. ladies and gentlemen, citizens often complain that europe has no face. we want to give it that face by providing for a stable european council, which would put an end to the rotating presidency. this is what the lisbon treaty provides for and it would be a positive development. but with a five-year presidency of the commission, europe already has a face that everyone knows and the president of the european parliament, for his part, represents the voice of 500 million citizens. the june european council will be held within the legal framework of the treaty of nice. it seems that some member states would be tempted to wait for the treaty of lisbon to take institutional decisions and, in particular, to appoint the president of the commission. but we also do not yet know - and unfortunately do not know - whether and when the lisbon treaty will be applied. what is clear is that the treaty in force must be applied without any hesitation. has the european elections been postponed on the grounds that the treaty of lisbon would have been more favourable to the european parliament? no, i'm not going. and our group expects the council to send a clear message about its intentions in the institutional field; the sooner the better. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the eu. mr. vondra, that would be a great gift for the first of july. i would also like to say how much we appreciated the way in which you, mr vondra, managed the first months of this presidency in a difficult context, with the energy conflict between russia and ukraine and, of course, the financial crisis. you have shown how important the continuity of european policy is. you also showed at the europe-us summit in prague, with barack obama, how important the unity of our countries is in our relations with our main partners. i hope that the czech presidency will end in a spirit as positive and constructive as this one. the credibility of the european union is at stake. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council will also most certainly discuss the latest developments in the economic crisis and the measures put in place at europe's request to moralise international financial circuits. i would like to welcome the latest proposals from the european commission, particularly as regards the golden parachutes, the bonuses paid to traders and the hedge funds. these are all steps in the right direction, namely the rules to be imposed on the financial markets to help us get back on the path to growth and jobs as quickly as possible. these measures demonstrate once again that those who accuse the commission and the european union, often by way of demagogy, of paralysis or weakness are wrong and are abusing our fellow citizens. when this presidency is over and the swedish presidency takes over, the europeans will have spoken in the european elections, and i hope that the choices they have made will help us collectively to meet the important deadlines that lie ahead.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, i am a little surprised at the european timetable. the commission puts on the table economic forecasts, which in just three months have reduced the growth prospects for the european union and the euro area from minus 1.9% to minus 4%, and when the finance ministers meet, their main concern is the long-term sustainability and quality of public finances, the continuation of structural reforms. it's like a dream. when i'm campaigning, our constituents tell us that. but where is europe? what is europe doing? what proposals has president barroso made to help all those who will be unemployed tomorrow? we are in a situation where it is increasingly apparent that the strategy pursued by the current team, under the leadership of mr barroso, is basically a japanese strategy: to act too late and therefore in an inefficient and costly way. we don't want that. and then, mr barroso, since this is probably the last time i see you in this house, let me say that the answer you gave us on the issue of the alternative investment funds directive is totally unacceptable. you are telling us that perhaps we should not have commented on the work being done in the commission. what would this text have been if we hadn't alerted you? and the result is that you think you can legislate in this area. but you only legislate for managers, you do not intervene in the reality of funds, and your only concern is investor protection, when the issue is also a question of price stability. you have not made a point, mr barroso.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for an opinion, i thank mr peneda for including in his report the fact that the commission did not propose any concrete measures to control the social and health consequences of the ecological and climate crises. i also thank him for mentioning the social economy, although i regret that its role in cohesion and the creation of quality jobs with little possibility of relocation is not mentioned. on the eve of the european elections, this report would be welcome if certain formulations were not suffering from a clear lack of ambition. can we be satisfied with flexicurity, with minimum standards in terms of labour law? no, i'm not going. and yet we can fear that tomorrow the right wing will reject these minimum standards, just as it has rejected, for the last five years, a directive on services of general interest. will we finally approve the minimum wage tomorrow? european citizens have been calling for a strong social europe for years. the next parliament must be able to put into practice the various social advances proposed in the report. this could help to mobilize everyone on june 7th.
mr president, errare humanum is to persevere diabolicum. i can only conclude from listening to the debates today that, in the end, despite the total shock - economic, financial, social and demographic - linked to the crisis we are experiencing, the european institutions, like the heads of state or government, have not yet grasped the scale of the tragedy and its consequences which are about to hit us. i was listening to the council representative earlier when he said that the unemployed should be able to improve their skills, that people should be more motivated when looking for a job. but do you really believe that the hundreds of thousands of unemployed victims of the crisis today are unemployed because they are unfit for work? we can see that all this is the result, first of all, of an ideological, doctrinal choice, of a kind of single thought, of economic theory, which is the economic theory of the open market and free trade. finally, the european union, which is developing the concept of free movement of capital, goods, services and people, would like to globalize this economic choice, this doctrine, but this is economically and socially criminal. we are dealing with an international, global competition. if we are not able to put in place a policy of social preference through economic preference, a social security policy through economic security, if we are not able to put in place a policy of trade defence, well, ladies and gentlemen, we will hand over what is left of our farmers, our artisans, our industries to the law of the jungle of globalism. there are globalist liberals, social globalists and anti-globalists in this assembly. i am proud to be one of the anti-globalists, of those who want to win back the internal market, of those who want to apply the rule of national and community preference and national and community protection, first of all in the service of our peoples.
mr president, i am happy to be defending today the revision of the european globalisation adjustment fund because with this financial crisis, this economic crisis, it is now a matter of defending employment, and we therefore have to deal with a social crisis. the future of our workers is, of course, to be protected by offering them professional mobility, by enabling them to adapt better to the needs of the company of today and tomorrow. economic recovery, the future of work and the competitiveness of our countries depend on the development of these skills of our employees, which are the value of our companies. so, yes, of course, tackling social exclusion first requires occupational integration. this is the model we must defend, this is the capital we must mobilise. all workers have the right to work. our political effectiveness will be measured by the speed with which we take action to ensure that the validation of experience, mobility and adaptability can be strong levers for each man and woman in our european countries, for each man and woman employed in our companies. we are committed to this and this is the direction in which we have worked in the committee on employment and social affairs.
commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that commissioner špidla was right to propose to us in the committee on employment that the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was set up on 1 january 2007, be revised. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the adjustment of globalisation to the economic and financial crisis to include the european union. jan andersson, our committee chairman, was right to propose a text which was voted by a large majority in the committee on employment, so as to reach all the committees, and in particular the committee on budgets, and tell them that it was important to communicate with the member states so that each and every employee, trade union member, citizen and citizen could be informed in his own language of the existence of this european fund. yes, thanks to this trilogue and because we rejected all the amendments by a large majority in the committee on employment, we can be proud of ourselves: 65% co-financing by the union and 35% by the member states, the threshold for redundancies to benefit from the european fund, which rises to 500 employees, the number of redundant employees open to actual redundancies as soon as the company's social plan is announced, intervention by the european fund due to the consequences of the economic crisis, a derogation from the application regime more favourable to the application of the funds, which will last until the end of 2011, and finally a period of application of the emf for 24 months. the commission has been right, but we must go further and i will ask all the member states to do everything in their power to ensure that all workers in difficulty can benefit from these provisions as soon as possible. i will ask commissioner špidla that if we have the large majority tomorrow to make the fund applicable at first reading, it can be applied as from 1 may 2009. let us crown our legislature with the adoption of this european fund which will enable us to support workers in difficulty. what does a laid-off employee want? he wants to know what his life will be like at the end of the month. he wants to know what he's gonna do with his life tomorrow. he wants to know if the knowledge he gained while he was at work, he can put it to good use. imagine the additional training he would need to prepare for the future! so, collectively, at the end of this parliament, i say to all the members of the employment committee, whatever their seats: let us make this text applicable now.
author. - madam commissioner, madam president, the reform of the cmu imposed by the eurocrats and lobbyists is causing three damage. it aims to abolish the market's regulatory mechanisms, liberalizes planting rights from 2015 onwards, and organizes the coexistence, under almost identical labels, of very different categories of wine. these three heresies were fatal to european viticulture, especially french viticulture. consumers will be deceived in their choice, winegrowers will see their incomes fall, the industrialization of the sector will condemn know-how. this systematic dismantling of the fundamental principles of the specificity of european viticulture is logical. caught between its submission to the wto and the influence of the all-powerful european business lobby, the ceev, the commission has been systematically working since 2004 to open the doors of the european chicken coop to all the foxes roaming the planet. it is increasingly emerging as the stepping stone of globalisation. the logical inconsistency appears when reading two sets of numbers. in europe, 170 000 hectares of vineyards are being removed, while in new zealand, the area planted is increasing by 240%. in australia, it was 169%, and in china, it was 164%. in europe, the reduction of supply to maintain prices at a decent quality price level cannot withstand wine industry dumping their surpluses of low-cost products and invading the thus liberated markets. that sums up the racket in the rosé market. it reveals the contradictions between the principles of the wto and those necessary for the organization of a sector to promote investment, quality and know-how. yesterday, we successfully knew that quality would, in the future, be quantity. with the commissioner's reforms, it is becoming clear that today's decisions will kill tomorrow's know-how. commissioner, it is imperative that the mixing and cutting be banned, and that before 7 june. after that, the only weapon left to winegrowers is the vote to make their will known.
author. - madam president, what are they trying to sell us? a white wine and red wine mixed together to make rosé wine. our fellow citizens react very negatively to this initiative of the european commission, which has the agreement of the member states, including france. i note two types of reaction: firstly, our citizens wonder why the european union is meddling with rosé wine, when there are so many other issues of concern, including the serious issue of the economic crisis. secondly, the producers of traditional rosé wines, produced by rapid maceration and delicate pressing, see in it a serious attack on the 'rosé' designation, the quality image developed over so many years, of wines such as these rosés from provence in which the aroma of the terroirs persists, and which have made the success of rosés in general. at the last meeting of the intergroup on wine, we understood the motivation of the european commission and the member states. the consumption of rosé table wines is increasing worldwide. it represents almost 30% of consumption, and third countries practice mixing. the eu market is beginning to be reached by blends from third countries. the english market is dominated by wines from the united states. and, as we all know, traditional rosé has a short shelf life. it is so much easier to produce rosé wine on demand using the stocks of white and red wines. the member states should therefore adapt the production of rosé table wines to the international market. unless other oenological practices are discovered to make rosé, one might, for example, be inspired by pierre dac, who said: "graft rose plants on vine plants, it will make natural rosé wine!" no, like many of my colleagues, i believe that the european commission and the member states must revise their copy, work on the name 'rosé wine', and ensure that the name 'rosé' is reserved exclusively for wines produced by traditional methods, whether produced in the european union or from third countries. in the meantime, i invite you to try one of these little rosés de gaillac, with the many colours of the tarn, to be enjoyed in moderation, of course.
author. - madam president, madam commissioner, i am not campaigning for the elections because i will not be here in the next parliament, so please do not force the issue, madam commissioner, but i am from bordeaux. you have visited my region, which produces little rosé wine, but is very attached to the rosé wine it produces. i wanted to say that i was particularly shocked to learn that the european commission was considering legalising the production of rosé blended with red and white. i think that this is counterfeiting food, which we are called upon to combat in the industrial sector, and that would be to allow the invention of a product derived from wine-growing, while we are fighting against products derived from finance. in reality, all of this is done with the same goal in mind - to find new products that will bring in more and more profit. well, as far as ensuring the profitability and competitiveness of the european union, i have had a little fun winking. you see, here's a rosé. i have produced this rosé wine in the european parliament by going to the market for white wine and putting red beet in it. i promise you it's exactly the same color and on top of that, you can have the full chromatic range, if you want, and probably, a certain range of taste. this would also allow us to solve the problems of the sugar chain and of the captalization of natural food products. it simply means that if we let this go on, it will go on forever. other colleagues have said that it is the perpetual counterfeiting of food that will prevail. so they say, "well, that's what they do in some countries". today, one fifth of the rosé production is cut. i am saying that the commission does not have to cut the other four-fifths. there are people who have worked to make sure that rosé exists, to become a real wine, produced with real oenological methods. today, they are being pushed aside on the pretext that it might be more lucrative to surf the pink market by making red and white. i think it's deeply immoral. and personally, i think that a label is not enough, or if it is a label, you should not call this type of cut wine "rosé". call it a "bibine" if you like, commissioner, it will be much more in keeping with the quality of the product.
madam president, commissioner, there was chocolate without cocoa, the ban on raw milk cheese, our roqueforts which took 300% of customs duties; we almost had chickens with bleach; we even came close to getting the lactation hormone, somatotropin. and now, of course, there's the question of coloring white wine with red wine to make rosé wine. if i may say so, it was the last straw that broke the camel's back, water that was allowed to be cut into wine, as was allowed for carpenter's wines made from wood chips rather than from barrels, as was almost allowed for wines made from imported musts. we could have even made wine in thailand! the problem is the psychoanalytic reaction that this question elicits. it's a cultural assault! what is the definition of wine? if it's an industrial product, then we can cut it, it's a coca-cola. but if it's an agricultural food product, then you can't touch it, otherwise it's a civilization shock. "this is my blood, drink it in remembrance of me". and if you cut the blood, you make contaminated blood. do you understand this disproportionate reaction? you have touched, with this rosé business, 2,500 years of the roman empire's legacy, which had to confront the barbarians. that is what i meant, madam president: 'this is a freudian affair, not a wine affair'.
madam president, commissioner, when i came here i was terribly dissatisfied. i'm angry, after hearing you. it is unacceptable that you should allow, at this time of election, the cutting of white and red wine. i was recently in provence and corsica to listen to the winegrowers in my constituency who opted for quality and now feel neglected. i remember a speech by mr barroso two years ago, in which he said: "viniculture is something important. it's the economy. we need to export more and to export more we need to do quality". i remember that speech very well. so the european commission imposed the grubbing-up to make more quality and less quantity. my winemakers in the south of france have played along. and look where it got them today! they have so much wine, that they will soon have to import wine home to satisfy their own consumption. your policies have condemned our winegrowers to death. and now you allow the blending of white wine, red wine, under a rosé name. it's an insult to our winegrowers. you are now going to ask them to add a supplementary mention: traditional wine, for wines produced in a conventional way, because our spanish friends have to sell their surplus white wine, because there is no harvest. our winegrowers, who have chosen the quality, do not have to justify the value of their wine. it would be a great thing. the wine is not rosé. it's a blended white wine. let's call it a day. we must not allow consumers to be deceived by traders who have chosen profit over quality. and that is what you are advocating, commissioner. i appeal to all my colleagues. those who will be returning to parliament soon. we will have to redouble our efforts to ensure that this measure of the european commission is rejected definitively and not provisionally. watch out for june 19th.
author. - commissioner, you said earlier that no suggestions had been made to you, that you were waiting for proposals, etc. yes, you've been given suggestions. you've met our winemakers. they told you they didn't want that. they told you that they did not want to suffer from having to indicate the name "traditional rosé" to distinguish themselves from rosé wine, which will not be "cut", of course. so you can't say you weren't offered anything. and above all, as far as rosé is concerned, we know very well that it is an oenological product which has nothing to do with the proposed blending of white and red wine. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that's what we're asking you to do. that's the suggestion we're making. don't penalize the real winemakers. how do you expect our fellow citizens to understand such a position on the part of the european commission? you're completely deaf to all arguments, it's completely incomprehensible.
author. - madam commissioner, i would like to take the floor again to say that i have heard your arguments and i have no doubt that this idea is not yours. it has to come from a number of interest groups. but i do not think that europe has any interest in continually chasing the low end, especially in food. the countries that did not pursue the low end of industrial production are now among the world's leading trading nations. the germans, in particular, have always resisted this temptation to level off. well, i think europe must resist, in terms of food, this constant temptation to level off, because that will take it far. so what we propose is to avoid at all costs that there are two types of "rosé" appellation: traditional or cut. there's rosé wine and there's something else. if you think it should be legalised, then organise a european competition to name this other thing. i personally think that europe would be honoured to oppose the wto on this type of product. you keep telling us "this is surrender" to everything else.
author. - madam commissioner, it is useless to mention 'rosé' on the bottle, since the good rosés, including the bandol i have brought you, do not bear the rosé label. on the other hand, to say "traditional rosé" on the label is stupid. rosé is a wine of interest to young people, it is a modern wine, even if its production requires traditional know-how. so there is too much ambiguity. there are not 36 solutions, there is only one, because, as was very well said earlier, it is a cultural wine, it is a know-how. we're not dealing in just any trade; what we have to do is simply to prohibit all cutting and mixing on european territory, and in particular on french territory.
in writing. european rosé wine producers are now concerned about the commission's draft implementing regulation on the lifting of the ban on cutting white and red table wines to make rosé wines. this new practice is detrimental to quality production and ignores the efforts made by producers over the past few years to develop a rosé product which has long been disregarded but which has now found a real place on the market and in the habits of many consumers, especially as this practice risks misleading the consumer. if the commission's draft cutting proposal is to be confirmed by the member states in the coming weeks, my friend gilles savary and i would like to see a mandatory labelling system to distinguish between real rosé wine and a new cutting product which could not then be called rosé.
in writing. in the face of the anger of european wine growers, the european commission decided to postpone its hasty decision to allow the production of rosé wine by blending red and white wines until 19 june. however, this postponement cannot be considered satisfactory in any case. nor is the decision to propose a distinction between 'traditional rosé' and 'rosé by cutting' on the labelling of marketed products sufficient to combat effectively the unfair competition faced by producers if such a decision were to be taken. while our european union winegrowers have made considerable efforts and investments for many years to ensure the production of high quality rosé wine, the commission's decision has reduced to nothing these many efforts, which have had a very positive impact on the economy and the development of our territories. in the question put to the commission today by my colleagues and myself, we are asking the commission to clarify its intentions and to ensure that the decision it takes is based on full consultation with european rosé wine producers.
in writing. madam commissioner,i do not hide my deep dissatisfaction with your attempts to explain the cutting of the 'rosé' wine. you have nothing to say to all the winegrowers with whom i have had the opportunity to exchange views at length in provence, and who have placed their trust in quality. they now fear that thirty years of efforts - and commercial success - to give rose its noble title will be lost. you have no answer to all those who see in the cutting permit a major contradiction with the painful policies of mass uprooting. it is not by seeking to reduce our production costs at any cost, but on the contrary by continually improving the reputation of our wines that we will emerge victorious from international competition. you have no answer to all those who say that labelling will not be enough, since it cannot apply to bottles of "blended" red wine. by postponing the decision on authorization until the day after the elections on 7 june, you are playing the euro-sceptic game. that is why i ask you, solemnly, to withdraw this harmful project that threatens an economy, as it threatens a culture.
in writing. under the pretext of revising authorised oenological practices, the european commission is preparing to authorise the blending of white and red wines under the name 'rosé wine'. i dispute the possibility of calling a blend of different wines "rosé". it is not the colour of the wine alone that should make its name: it is the grape varieties, the terroirs and the know-how of the winemakers that make the wines, not the final colour of any liquid. to make a rosé by cutting, it would be necessary to start from a white wine, more than 95%, which would be stained with red wine. rosé wine is made by fermenting grapes or red musts. thus, by allowing the cutting of wines, the european commission would be allowing a genuine counterfeit of rosé wine: it would be organizing a deception of consumers. apart from the insult to wine growers who are committed to a quality policy, particularly in provence, it would be unacceptable to legitimise a by-product from the mixture of finished products and to allow the misleading reference to the colour of rosé. if there is no other solution, these drinks should at least be labelled according to their actual content: 'cut wine' or 'mixed wine'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today turkey seems to be functioning as a democracy, but it is not the european union's job to give lessons in good behaviour all the time, since it is the european union that is willingly and without scruple circumventing the sovereign will of its peoples when they express themselves in a referendum. in the end, turkey is still far from the values of the european nations, as is shown by the situation of the very numerous national and religious minorities that make up this country. the situation of millions of kurds is hardly improving. relations with the armenians or even with the greek neighbours are under constant diplomatic or military pressure. cyprus remains a country militarily occupied by turkey, in violation of international law. it's been going on for 35 years. minority religious groups are hardly spared. the rights of communities not listed in the treaties are regularly trampled underfoot in the blatant indifference of the european commission, which, like parliament, continues to support the accession of this country to the european union. so let's be consistent with that. if cooperation with the turkish nation is essential, any project of turkish integration must be carried out in accordance with european democracies, that is to say, by means of the vote in the referendum.
mr president, if the quorum were to apply to our deliberations, imagine what would happen. we are only eleven here today to take a stand on extremely important subjects which are the subject of the next partsession. that is why i find the very principle of these amendments extremely questionable. it is even more questionable - apart from the work done by mr corbett - when we see that an amendment rejected by the committee on institutional affairs has been returned to us with the support of the two main groups in this house to amend, in a case which we know very well is an individual one, the traditional provision common to all parliamentary systems in the world, according to which the inaugural sitting is presided over by the oldest member of the house. this provision is particularly valid and to want to change it simply because the next age decan may not please the majority groups is obviously a particularly petty measure. that is the whole problem of our parliament. i've been sitting here for almost twenty years. i note that whenever the minority exercises a right, the rules are changed. it would be better to repeal the regulation and in these circumstances to be content with the will of the majority groups.
the rapporteur. - mr president, after the big cake in the corbett report, i do not know if it is the cherry; it would be the little cake that you are given with the coffee, just to pass the addition. so i'm going to talk to you about petitions. we have noted in the past that the regulation as it was drafted presented us with some problems, because sometimes certain articles gave rise to difficult interpretations and even political blockages as to the admissibility of certain texts. we have therefore tried to do some cleaning up, clarifying, consolidating, but that does not constitute a revolution. we want to identify the petitioner better first, because at the moment, when we receive half a ton of petitions, we don't really know who the person to address is. we therefore ask petitioners to indicate who is their leader, so to speak, or else we shall decide to use the first name on the front page. we are instituting a right of withdrawal. we say to the citizens: "you can petition, but you can also waive this right and ask that your name be removed from the list of signatories". you know that our parliament can receive correspondence in minority languages when they are recognised by the states, such as galician, basque, catalan, etc. we have decided to extend this right to petitions as well. if you write to us in certain languages which the bureau has recognised as languages of written communication with the citizens, we will also reply in those languages. but the real reform is acceptability. until now, the members of the committee on petitions have sometimes been in a rather bitter fight over whether a text really concerns european law or not. finally, europe was everywhere, and by the roads, it was always possible to get there. so we tried to simplify things by giving a sort of eligibility bonus. if a quarter of the members of the committee on petitions think that a text is acceptable, it will be considered, because we are not talking about restricting an essential right, a right which is nevertheless based on primary law. in the event of a declaration of inadmissibility, we will even try to recommend some possible remedies. transparency is always at stake, as the name of the petitioner and the content of the petition will always be published in our records, but if, for reasons of privacy protection, the petitioner requests incognito, we can give him the right. the same applies if confidentiality is required for the proceedings. the right to speak is still maintained, of course, for the petitioners, at the discretion of the committee chairman. as for the right of follow-up, we have widened it a little - or rather clarified it - since before, the committee on petitions could rely on almost anything and everything for the preparation of an own-initiative report. we do not see why this committee should have more rights than the other committees. it obviously retains this right, provided that the conference of presidents of the political groups does not object. the electronic register is maintained. information missions go to the site, if necessary, to verify the facts or even to look for a possible solution. this is a somewhat new role of mediator which we have decided to introduce, and this can be a great credit to our parliament. we are asking the commission, represented at the highest level tonight, to help us, if necessary, to clarify the application of community law and, if necessary, to provide us with information. the information gathered is of course given to the commission, the council and the petitioner. but what if the lisbon treaty were to be ratified? you know that a new type of petition is provided for in this treaty - alongside the petition to the european parliament, which has now been in existence for a very long time - which is the petition to the european commission, with at least one million signatures. we simply decided that if a related issue were raised - in the event that the treaty of lisbon was ratified - by a petition submitted by a million citizens to the commission, we in parliament would check whether we were dealing with an identical subject and whether or not the petition addressed to the commission was likely to influence our own work, in which case we would simply inform the petitioners. i think that, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have pretty much summed up the situation. so there is no revolution, but clarification and the removal of any possible blockage.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i will try to answer my colleagues. jo, you're absolutely right, my tongue is out of joint. the procedures are quite different for referring the commission to the future provisions of the possible future treaty and for referring parliament to the petition procedure. but in the hypothetical case where these two types of interpellation, very different in terms of location and format, converged on the same subject, we decided that it was appropriate to alert the petitioners to establish whether or not there was a need to continue our investigations. in this case, we simply decided to develop coordination. i'm a good clarifier, but you were right to ask me for clarification on the linguistic level. i'm continuing my explanations on linguistics, as requested by costas. of course, there is no question of completing this tower of babel which is already very complex - just look at the number of interpreters who are still here tonight. it is noted that the bureau of parliament may decide that petitions and correspondence with petitioners shall be written in other languages used in a state. so these languages must have a place in the state and the state must demand it. this is the case for four languages so far, no more. if tomorrow i want to write in volapuk, which is an imaginary language, it is clear that no state will recognize it, and neither parliament nor its bureau will respond in that language. it's all very specific. as regards the problems of conflict between committees to which richard has drawn our attention, i would point out that my report states, again in accordance with rule 46 and annex vi, that the committee on petitions can already seek the opinion of another committee 'which has special competence for the matter under consideration'. you're saying that in that case, there may still be a conflict. well, we have appointed an arbiter, because the committee on petitions cannot take its own initiative or go against an own-initiative report of a committee responsible, unless the conference of presidents allows it. we have a point of reference, the conference of presidents, which will decide whether the committee on petitions or the committee responsible should take action, in the event that the two committees are unable to reach an agreement. so we've made sure that there's a backup. i think we can conclude on that, mr president. i have waited almost 20 years for the right to speak for six minutes in plenary. but in front of such an audience, it was really a pleasure.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good intention to want a recovery plan. keynesian recovery is necessary to meet a cyclical constraint, but here the crisis is structural. the tool is therefore inadequate. re-injecting funds into an extraverted economy is throwing money out the window. indeed, to revive an economy without having re-established community preference at our borders is to try to keep warm a house whose windows would be condemned to remain open. the consequences will be the exhaustion of the boiler and the explosion of the energy bill. after that preliminary, i would make three remarks. firstly, an energy market is irrelevant. in this case, competition does not lower prices, since they are determined by the cost of the means of production. we therefore feel it is essential to invest in really efficient energy sources, not to be fooled by heavily subsidised energy sources such as wind turbines, and to give preference to solar and nuclear energy. secondly, there is no efficiency in a single electricity market. over a large area, the energy consumption lost is proportional to the distance travelled. the probability of failure and disruption increases with the geographical complexity of the network. the interconnection of the european electricity grid must therefore return to its original function, which is to serve as a means of mutual assistance at the frontiers and to ensure, merely in the margin, an exchange of electricity. these works must be our priorities. thirdly, with regard to the podimata dossier, which is linked to this dossier, we would suggest that we should not only take into account the energy consumption required to operate a product, but also consider the information on the energy consumption required to manufacture that product. the communication of this information to consumers will enhance products with high added value for low energy consumption. the integration of this information will provide a necessary competitive advantage to our economies, which are too much affected by unfair global competition.
madam president, in november 2008 the commission presented a recovery plan which was not up to the challenge, in terms of both volume and content. six months later, there is almost no implementation of this stimulus plan, and i would like to hear about the 30 billion euro stimulus. what happened to the 15 billion announced through the new measures entrusted to the eib? how can we reconcile an announced stimulus of 7 billion through the structural funds and cohesion and an announcement of under-consumption of 10 billion euros in 2009 on structural expenditure? finally, with regard to the 5 billion we are discussing today, i would like to make four observations. despite pressure from the european parliament, the council of finance ministers was unable to release the 5 billion for 2009, but only 2.6 billion. we have no certainty about the council's ability to find the missing 2.4 billion for 2010. parliament is prepared to find all possible solutions in a regulatory way. but there is no need to question other political priorities. this will not be allowed by parliament. we can't accept redeployment, that's the red line not to cross. it will be difficult to find these 2.4 billion, because with the presentation of the commission's apb we know that, at the very most, 1.7 billion will be available. and yet the council must agree to these margins! in any case, therefore, in the name of a short-sighted budgetary orthodoxy and a notarial vision of budgetary regulation, the many states must no longer be able to stop this whole recovery plan. we must maintain a strong budget for the future of the union, and we see, in the fourth place, that the mass and the way in which the latest financial perspectives have been negotiated and accepted are severely hampering europe's future.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place today.
that's not possible, mr. graefe, the discussion is over. at catch the eye you know very well that there are five minutes and that priority is given to those members who did not have the floor during the debate. i cannot therefore give you the floor now, the debate is closed. i'm sorry about that. *** written declarations (rule 142) the following are to be taken into account:
the agenda calls for the joint discussion of: the report by othmar karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directives 2006/48/ec and 2006/49/ec as regards banks affiliated to central institutions, certain elements of own funds, large exposures, supervisory arrangements and crisis management ((com2008) 0602 - c6-0339/2008 - 2008/0191 ((cod)) (a6-0139/2009)), and the report by karsten friedrich hoppenstedt, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a community support programme for specific activities in the field of financial services, financial reporting and auditing (com2009) c1400 - c31-06-06-00/2009 - 2009/d1000 (a6-024/2009).
on behalf of the pse group. commissioner, i regret the absence of the presidency of the council. mr charlie mccreevy, you had placed your mandate as commissioner for the internal market under the sign of the regulatory pause. unfortunately - and i do not know how to put this - you should have changed your mind and ended up following the opinion of the socialist group, which, as soon as mr katiforis' report was presented, told you that you had to legislate in the field of credit rating agencies, or listen to our rapporteur, poul nyrup rasmussen, who told you that in the banking sector, you had to organize retention on securitisation. finally, you also had to decide to introduce deposit insurance in the banking sector. you see, the regulatory pause is not a new one. fortunately, we will not have to deal with these matters with you again in the next parliament, because the last proposal you put to us, concerning alternative funds and investment funds, is not reasonable; the evidence is that you are not even willing to come and discuss this with the committee on economic and monetary affairs. as regards the karas report, i think it is an important report that we must vote on today, because it sends a signal within the union, to our banking sector and to the whole world of g20 partners, that we must introduce retention in securitisation. we need to define equity more clearly. tomorrow we must increase the transnational supervision of groups, and have integrated supervision in the spirit of the report which jacques de la rosière has given us. we must also set up clearing houses for derivatives and credit derivative swaps. i also want to thank mr karas for the way in which we have been able to reopen the trilogue so that we are able, in the period before the entry into force of this directive, to revise the retention threshold. after commissioning studies, after giving cebs a mandate to determine under what conditions, in fact, this retention should be organised in an expert manner, we were able to verify whether the 5% threshold we are going to vote on today was the appropriate threshold, especially since we also corrected the scope of this retention by removing the guarantees that mr purvis wanted, which i believe is in the right direction. i would like to thank mr hoppenstedt very warmly for his report, because i think we are putting our finger in a useful and virtuous gear. in the past the commission used to tell us that it could not finance the level 3 committees, now it can. it is possible even before these committees become agencies. we look forward to it. the rapporteur will be able to finance both operational expenditure and project expenditure, with parliament being able to read the nature of the projects financed in this way. we can only rejoice in that; this is going in the right direction. finally, as regards accounting standards and the conditions under which international organisations contribute to the development of these standards, we have put pressure on these organisations to improve their governance and to better define their role. i believe that the european parliament, with mr hoppenstedt's report, has done a useful job here too, and i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs and this house if, just now, it adopts these two reports by a large majority, i hope.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my group would like a separate vote on the last paragraph of paragraph 1 (a), entitled, i quote, 'delegation for relations with albania, bosnia herzegovina, serbia, montenegro and kosovo', which in our view would constitute de facto recognition of kosovo, which we consider unacceptable. i would therefore like to see this paragraph voted on separately.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr hans-gert, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament is the voice of 500 million europeans, and they do not know it well enough. what they do not know is that this parliament has a heart and a soul. mr hans-gert, during the two and a half years of your presidency, you have not only been the spokesman for the people, but you have also embodied the heart, generosity and solidarity of europe. some say you can't fall in love with europe; you proved otherwise. as this parliament draws to a close, i would like to emphasize how much progress has been made in the construction of europe and how much our parliament, under your leadership, has contributed to it. i would only mention the most striking examples that you have mentioned: the energy-climate package, the services directive, the financial perspective 2007-2013 and, more recently, financial market regulation. but rather than listing a tedious list of directives and regulations, i would like to emphasize how much meaning there is in our collective work behind the often very technical legislation we are debating and voting on here. this is in the general interest of europeans. it is often said that europe is far from the citizen, but are issues such as toy safety, research into rare diseases or alzheimer's disease, consumer protection, environmental measures and the fight against global warming, energy policy and the defence of human rights worldwide really far from the everyday life of citizens? under your presidency, this parliament has made other major advances. i am thinking of the internal reform which you have completed and which will make our institution more transparent and more efficient, and of the new status of members of the european parliament and their assistants. under your presidency, this parliament has multiplied the initiatives within the framework of the european year of intercultural dialogue, doing justice to the great cultural and cultural wealth of our society and reflecting europe's best image: that of openness and tolerance. under your presidency, parliament has shown the importance it attaches to the future of the mediterranean region and its willingness to contribute to a chance for peace in the middle east. mr president, on 25 march 2007 you signed on our behalf the berlin declaration commemorating the 50th anniversary of the european union. this declaration reminds those who have forgotten it of the purpose of our daily work, namely the building of a free, democratic, tolerant and rule-of-law europe. by taking the initiative to create a house of european history, you are giving a lasting dimension to the work you have carried out as president of this institution, to that of your predecessors and to that of all those who, in their own way, contribute to our collective history. for all that, i simply thank you, mr president. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, your presidency - as you have just said - has been marked by events of great political significance which have in various ways challenged europe and, therefore, our parliament. some of these are internal to the union, in particular what many call the institutional crisis, and which i would rather call an additional symptom of a crisis of confidence or a crisis of legitimacy of the current european model with a growing part of our fellow citizens. others are international, such as the conflict in the middle east which you mentioned, which, far from moving towards a just and lasting peace, is worsening before our eyes and is poisoning international relations, if not threatening the cohesion of our own societies. the european union is not only a political, economic and social force, but also a political and economic force. it is in this exceptionally complex context that you have had to lead the european parliament and represent it before our member states and the world. my group and i consider that you have discharged your responsibility with honour. it is true that our political options are notoriously different, and sometimes divergent. but it is precisely the ability to manage these necessary and salutary clashes of ideas, with respect for each and every one, that is the criterion for the holder of a high office such as yours. i can say that as chairman of a minority group and as one who in many ways expresses alternative orientations to those currently being pursued, i have felt comfortable under your presidency. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i think it is a very good thing that he has not yet responded to the question. mr president, we have been together for 30 years. we have really come to know each other over the past ten years of excellent cooperation in the conference of presidents and i greatly appreciate your personal ethics, which has enabled you to recognize - at least i believe so - that one can be a communist, a democrat, a european and a humanist at the same time. thank you for that. (applause) i would like to thank
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i should first like to point out, with regard to the request for a change in the voting list, that if the compromise - if i understand correctly - was put forward by the services of the sitting, which have shown good sense, before the amendment tabled by the groups, it is because it goes further than amendment no 46. it includes clauses that are not limited to restricting internet access but also include all the devices that can impede the rights of users. secondly, i would also like to say to the honourable members that this compromise has been tabled on article 1, which concerns the scope of application, and therefore has a cross-cutting effect, whereas the amendment tabled by the groups concerns article 8, which concerns the objectives of the national regulators. during the whole period of negotiations on this compromise, i worked in good faith and in good faith with all the political groups. i note, madam president, that one of the groups has just withdrawn its signature from this compromise. i would therefore like to say that, as rapporteur, i of course continue to support this compromise and that i also voted in favour of amendment no 46. i would like to say that, in the circumstances in which we are debating, it is wiser that our house should decide on the order of votes, rather than you or the rapporteur alone taking this decision. however, i would like to put this request to you very directly, because we have to understand what happens next if there is a reversal of the vote. if there is no reversal of the vote, the list remains the same. if there is a reversal of the vote, the 46th is voted if it obtains the qualified majority. in that case, madam president, i would also ask you to put the compromise to the vote, which goes further than the 46th amendment. if the 46th does not obtain a qualified majority, then we shall vote on the compromise and our assembly will have made its choice.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i asked that we could also vote on the compromise because it was broader than amendment no 46 alone. you have decided not to put this compromise to the vote without giving us any explanation and without giving the rapporteur any answer. i wanted to point this out to you and say that i regret that our recommendation was not followed up, as was the recommendation of the rapporteur on the vote in this house. i also wanted to say - to explain the vote that has just taken place - that if any part of the compromise is not adopted, the whole package is subject to conciliation. that is the result of the vote which is being taken today.
in writing. − the gue/ngl group has abstained in the vote on the number of interparliamentary delegations, due to the reference to ‘kosovo’ in the formation of a ‘delegation for relations with albania, bosnia-herzegovina, serbia, montenegro and kosovo’. the formation of a delegation for relations with a self-proclaimed state that is a result of violation of international law constitutes in itself a de facto violation of international law. this abstention does not concern all other delegations referred to in the same decision, which we support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by my british socialist colleague, mr richard corbett, on the general revision of the rules of procedure. i share the initiative of the socialist leader, martin schultz, who wanted to prevent the french leader of a far-right party from having the honour of presiding over the inaugural session of the new assembly. under the new arrangements, the inaugural sitting of the assembly scheduled for 14 july will be chaired either by the outgoing president of parliament if re-elected or by one of the 14 vice-presidents in order of precedence in the event of re-election. european democracy, in fact, has principles of respect and tolerance between peoples which j.m. le pen deliberately ignores by his relentless denial of the truth.
in writing. the corbett report aims to bring parliament's rules of procedure into line with the current practice of general consensus and preliminary negotiations in small committees, which makes the plenary a mere recording chamber for texts 'pre-written' by a handful of experts. and so the institutionalisation of a final public vote on each text is only the minimum of transparency that citizens can expect from the work of this assembly. but above all, this report is an unexpected opportunity to pass in extremis a mind-boggling amendment, which was rejected in committee and was drafted solely to prevent one individual from exercising a function which is recognized in all the assemblies of the world: that of senior dean who takes over the formalities of the election of the president at the inaugural sitting. a real emergency law, a crime of parliamentary "dirty mouth"! never seen anything like it in a democracy ! the signatories are none other than mr daul and mr schultz, who should definitely seek to be known and recognised in germany rather than in france. further proof, if need be, of the permanent collusion of the soft right and the sectarian left who vote together on almost all the texts adopted in this house.
in writing. following the rejection of the amendment on the age threshold in the constitutional committee, mr schulz and mr daul, both liberal-social-democratic colleagues, represent the same amendment in plenary. we used to learn in the classical humanities that to err is human, to persevere is diabolical. obviously, the lesson was not learned. it is true that to focus the work of the european parliament on my humble self is almost pathetic. indeed, to flout its own rules to this extent is the germ of a totalitarianism in its infancy. when will minority groups be eliminated? when will the recalcitrant members be eliminated? from claude autant-lara to jean-marie le pen, the circle is closed. in 1989, after the remarkable speech of the great filmmaker, the speech of the old dean was suppressed. twenty years later, the oldest member of the european parliament is removed to prevent the devil le pen from presiding over the election of the president of the european parliament. what democratic progress, my dear colleagues! mr schulz and mr daul are giving me, in their defence, a remarkable free publicity which i shall not fail to exploit. i am the only one who is challenging them all and i call on the real democrats and the sincere europeans to bear witness to the fact that this masquerade and denial of democracy is not serving europe but the hidden interests of a small political clique.
in writing. as a french member of the european parliament and member of the ind/dem group, i have chosen not to support amendments 51 and 52 to the corbett report. it is not reasonable to change a general rule in favor of a particular case. moreover, these manoeuvres will probably have the opposite effect of what is intended, namely to highlight the lack of respect shown by many members of parliament for some of their colleagues and candidates. furthermore, there is nothing to prevent a political party that is unhappy with the potential senior leader from nominating an older candidate.
in writing. i voted in favour of amendment no 138, which i tabled last september and which was adopted by 88% of meps. i welcome the fact that it has once again been supported by an overwhelming majority of meps, who have thus reaffirmed their commitment to defending the rights of internet users. this is a strong sign, one month before the european elections! contrary to what the ump and its minister for culture seem to think, the opinion of the european parliament is not worthless. this is a new blow for sarkozy and the french government: parliament has said no to sarkozy in substance as well as in form. meps said no to the graduated response and no to the unacceptable pressure exerted by france on the first democratic body on the european continent!
in writing. firstly, the amendments which are most protective of the rights and freedoms of citizens were not adopted by this house in the harbour report which complements it. secondly, a problem of voting order, which has fortunately been resolved, has raised suspicions about how an important political problem can be solved here: by a petty political maneuver, by blaming an administration which has no choice but to do so. finally, because the anger of mr toubon, who was clearly a fervent supporter of the hadopi law, at the time of the adoption of amendment no 1, which netizens call the 'bono' amendment, was replaced by his joy and approval when mrs trautmann indicated that there would be a third reading of this text, the overall compromise having been amended. this means that the will very clearly expressed by the majority of this parliament is likely to be trampled underfoot, as was the case with the french, dutch and irish referendums. mr sarkozy and his friends in the majors are having a break. the citizens themselves will have to remain vigilant. it is the parliament elected on 7 june which will negotiate the third reading. he's not sure that once they secure their seats, the socialists will stay on the side of freedom.
in writing. the majority of our assembly is both hypocritical and cowardly in claiming that animals should be slaughtered without unnecessary suffering, except in the case of religious rites. religious rites refer mainly to the ritual slaughter, especially during the muslim festival of eid el-kebir, when hundreds of thousands of sheep are slaughtered. the legal recognition of such a practice is part of a much wider phenomenon, the islamization of our societies. gradually, our law and customs are being adapted to the sharia, the islamic law. in france, more and more municipalities are indirectly financing the construction of mosques. school cafeterias make their menus according to the dietary requirements of islam. in some cities, such as lille, there are swimming pool hours reserved for women. by creating the french council of muslim worship in 2003, mr sarkozy, then minister of the interior, introduced islam into french institutions. to stop this development, we must break with islamic correctness, reverse the migration flows from outside europe and build a new europe, the europe of sovereign nations, without turkey, affirming the christian and humanist values of its civilization.
in writing. we support the desire to replace the 1993 directive in order to improve and standardise slaughter conditions across the european union. we also agree with the principle that animals should be slaughtered only by methods which ensure their instantaneous death or stunning, but we are absolutely against the idea of allowing exceptions in the context of religious rites. public opinion is very sensitive and totally opposed to unnecessary painful practices. so why tolerate them in the name of religion, whether animals are immobilized or not before they are killed. strict regulations and procedures must be established to ensure that these animals are stunned and cannot regain consciousness before they die, but it would be even better to ban such practices, which are of a different age and can be described as barbaric, once and for all.
in writing. the social record of your europe is a resounding failure. in france, terrible figures have just been released: an increase in poverty of 15% in two years, an explosion in the number of working poor, and a correlative exponential growth in the number of households over-indebted, whose resources have long since been insufficient to cover current expenditure. and we are only at the beginning of this deep crisis. you advocate 'openness of citizens to change' when, for the worker, change means job loss and the certainty that your policies will not bring jobs back. you speak of 'social' when the court of justice tramples on the rights of workers in the name of competition and the free provision of services. you add flexibility, when flexibility is just the european word for 'precariousness'. you even pretend to pay special attention to women and mothers, when your stupid 'gender' policy leads to the disappearance of their specific social rights, such as those they had in france in terms of pensions or night work. it is not the renewal of the social agenda that is needed, but the fundamental change of your perverse system.
the agenda calls for the council and commission statements on the conclusions of the united nations conference on racism (durban ii geneva).
madam president, it is obviously a pity that the victims of racism and discrimination were not honoured at this durban conference, because of the scandalous operation of hijacking this conference by the iranian president, who was - and i must deplore it - a trap set by him in which several member states of the european union have fallen. that's the problem. i would like to thank the member states of the european union who nevertheless committed themselves and have now reached conclusions which are quite honorable, even if they are imperfect. i would also like to hear from the presidency what efforts the member states have made or have not made to ensure that the european union does not appear in this conference in a dispersed fashion, which was particularly regrettable.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the report by raimon obiols i germà, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report (2008) on human rights in the world and the european union's policy on the matter (2008/2336 (ini)) (a6-0264/2009).
for the greens/efa group madam president, the annual report prepared by mr obiols is excellent. it is intended, like all the work of the subcommittee on human rights during this parliament, to bridge the gap between the say and the do of european external action and to trace any inconsistencies and weaknesses in our policy, starting with the member states, which are too often in the wrong with regard to international law. it is enough to mention the treatment of migrants, cooperation with secret cia flights or the failure to ratify international conventions. the council's requirements are also variable in geometry. how can we explain the fact that the council has not yet triggered the implementation of article 2 of the association agreement with israel after the persistent violations we are witnessing? our politics are compartmentalized. so they often lack a global vision and integration, and our instruments are not optimized, they're not sequenced. imagine: the council issued a statement welcoming the subcommittee on human rights with tunisia, even though with that country we are not yet able to because it is an obstacle to supporting human rights defenders. in our successive own-initiative reports we have made specific recommendations such as the development of country-specific human rights strategies or more direct involvement of parliamentarians in policy making, and we have succeeded in moving the lines. i am thinking of the guidelines on torture, for example. today human rights defenders are better protected and i welcome the fact that the 'human rights' clauses are now being considered by the council and the commission. i would also like to remind you that we want this clause to be reworded. we want a mechanism to regulate the opening of dialogue and its systematic incorporation into all eu agreements. for the past five years we have been working with the council and the commission to improve the union's policy. the matter is under way, at least for today, and i really want to thank them very warmly because their availability - but also that of all my colleagues - has been indispensable to the success, to the greater credibility that we have today in this field.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. before we come to the next report, i would like to take advantage of the fact that this is my last presidency, of the fact that this is a report which concerns my own committee, and i would like to take this opportunity to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, how much i have enjoyed and appreciated this work for ten years with you, and the last five years have been extraordinary. i would also like to thank commissioner jacques barrot, who has accompanied us with his kindness - i would say his kind authority - and i would also like to thank the chairman of our committee, mr gérard deprez, and all my colleagues. i won't name all of you, but jeanine hennis-plasschaert is here, sophie in't weld is here, mrs. lambert is here, mr. busuttil is here, antonio, barbara; i really want to thank you all and say, well, goodbye. maybe i'll get a chance to see you again. i'm not the one who's gonna be presiding this time. i think i'll just take care of the introduction and mr. mcmillan-scott will then continue. so if you'll just... thank you! (applause) written declaration (rule 142) the council has not yet adopted the common position.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on: the report by bárbara dührkop dührkop, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 573/2007/ec establishing the european refugee fund for the period 2008-2013 as regards the withdrawal of funding for certain community actions and the change of the ceiling for their funding (com (2009) 0067 - c6-0070/2009 - 2009/0026(cod)) (a6-0280/2009), the report by antonio masipalgo, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers in member states (cod) (excouncil decision 2008-024/ec) [cod-024/09 (excod-024/08) ] on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 573/2007/ec as regards the withdrawal of funding for certain community actions and the change of the ceiling for their funding (com (2009) 00677 - c6-0070/09 - c6-0070/07 (com (2009) 028 (excod))), the proposal for a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and council regulation establishing a european parliament and council regulation establishing a european parliament and council regulation establishing a european asylinfromnment of minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers in member states (reffort) (com (2008) c7-0015/06-06-06-06-07) - c7-0028 (com (2008) 0024 (c) ), the european parliament and the european parliament and the european parliament and council on
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, as the fictitious rapporteur on the dublin regulation, i would like to congratulate the european commission on the quality of the text that has been proposed to us. it brings significant improvements to the dublin system, in particular from the point of view of respect for the fundamental rights of applicants for international protection. these include, in particular, the strengthening of the principle of family unity, increased attention to minors and the best interests of the child, better information and redress for applicants for international protection, strict limitation of the use of detention, and the possibility to temporarily suspend transfers to member states with particular pressure on their reception capacities or failing to ensure an adequate level of protection. in the libe vote we succeeded in defeating the epp, which wanted to see a number of these provisions disappear, including the one that allows the detention of applicants for international protection to be regulated. this is a vital guarantee for us, because asylum seekers are not criminals and there is therefore no reason to put them behind bars. however, some points in the report remain problematic, notably the question of the language in which the information must be transmitted to the applicant. we think it must be a language that the person understands and not a language that he is supposed to understand. in the case of a person in detention, this is what the european convention on human rights provides. we also want the application of minors who have no relatives in the union to be examined by the member state in which the last application was made, to avoid the transfer of these minors from one state to another. this was the commission's original text, but the epp, supported by the rapporteur, opposed this proposal. finally, since the dublin regulation is not intended to ensure a fair sharing of responsibility for examining applications for international protection, it seems to me essential that other instruments be developed to strengthen solidarity - and you, commissioner barrot, have mentioned this - with the member states at the union's external borders.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i too am pleased to be able to speak on such an essential debate as the asylum package, especially on this penultimate day of the parliamentary term. in our various work, and despite the adoption of the first phase of the european asylum system, we have been able to note the persistent differences between the various member states in the area of the recognition of refugee status. we must also note that, despite the significant progress made by the directive on reception conditions, which has been mentioned by my colleague, roselyne lefrançois, and whose comments i fully support, we must note that the member states still have too much room for manoeuvre in this area. i would therefore like to stress that european solidarity must be applied in this area, and especially in this area. finally, more than ever, i would like to stress that asylum seekers and persons in need of international protection are vulnerable and must therefore be given special attention. this means, in particular, that they cannot be detained. the debate on the return directive is closed; we all agreed. it's not appropriate to reopen it at a time when we're discussing asylum.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to present this evening the report on the financial aspects of the lisbon treaty which has been being prepared for some time in the committee on budgets. this will be the last budget report of this parliament and my last parliamentary report. above all, i am very pleased that parliament has had the courage to present our reports in the lisbon package to honour the promise to the citizens to inform them of the consequences of this treaty. a better informed citizen is a citizen who votes with knowledge. to speak of the lisbon treaty in this house is not to deny democracy, quite the contrary. its implementation will have important consequences for the budgetary powers of the institutions and financial implications. the reform is indeed far-reaching for parliament. apart from the introduction of multiannual financial frameworks, it should be remembered that the budgetary procedure has remained virtually unchanged since 1975. it was therefore essential that the committee on budgets should analyse these amendments and verify the conditions under which our institution could maintain or even strengthen its role as budgetary authority. that is the whole point of this report: simplification, clarification of the treaty's budgetary issues. i have been particularly concerned to defend the prerogatives of the parliamentary institution. future members must not be deprived of their powers in the next budgetary procedures and the next negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. these substantial changes are of three types. first, amendments to the primary law. the new budgetary procedure involves real progress and new challenges for parliament, starting with the abolition of the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure. then, the introduction of a single reading for the budgetary procedure with the establishment of a mechanism of appeal in the event of rejection of the common position by the council, the setting up of a conciliation committee in charge of drawing up the common position and a tight timetable around this conciliation committee. the new multiannual financial framework also contains amendments which strengthen the role of parliament. this framework is becoming binding. its adoption requires unanimity in the council and the agreement of the european parliament. i would add that it was adopted following a special procedure, which is entirely new. as regards the new financial perspective, we want it to be five years long, to match the mandates of parliament and the european commission. the commissioners will thus be more responsible for the budgetary choices they make. the co-decision procedure is extended to the adoption of the financial regulation and the detailed rules for its application. but unfortunately the decision on own resources is still up to the council. parliament is merely consulted, except on the detailed rules for its application. budgetary discipline is therefore partly the responsibility of parliament, which can reject the multiannual financial framework. that's a real step up. the question for the next parliament is what will be negotiated under the new financial regulation procedure, on which parliament is a co-decision-maker, and what will be the legislation of the new regulation of the interinstitutional agreement, which parliament can simply reject or accept. finally, the union's new responsibilities will generate new financing needs: first, the external relations package, including the creation of the european external action service and the high representative vice-president of the commission, and then the new policies: energy, space and tourism, research, civil protection, administrative cooperation, sport. as you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon are important.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the construction of europe sometimes gives rise to moving symbols for the anonymous actors we are. the final vote in the legislature will therefore be on what was the last amendment proposed jointly by meps and national meps before the european convention: the creation of a right of citizens' initiative at union level. let us not underestimate its significance. the treaty of lisbon gives the citizens themselves, ordinary citizens, the same power of political initiative as our own parliament has within the european union. our own-initiative reports enable us to invite the commission to act, to propose a legal basis for us to launch a new policy or to adapt an existing policy. well, citizens will be able to do the same, provided they are in sufficient numbers and come from a significant number of member states. i congratulate sylvia-yvonne kaufmann on the way she has worked to reach a consensus, which was obviously necessary on such a subject. the precision it gives to the treaty and the procedural guarantees are reasonable. the fixing of the significant number at one quarter of the member states is consistent with the solution chosen for the governments themselves in the framework of the area of freedom, security and justice. this new right, which has been given to european citizens, does not exist in this form in any of our countries. the union will also make progress in direct democracy. in france itself, for example, we dare not go that far. we reformed our national constitution last year, but by limiting such a right to collective petition to the local level only. let us now hope that our political parties will be able to compete in imagination to make the best use of this new right, and above all, beyond the parties, let us hope that civil society will take up this right: trade unions, non-governmental organisations, students - especially erasmus students - frontier workers, all european citizens who live in a country other than their country of origin and who find that the laws we vote on here are, alas, not being applied properly on the ground. in this union where everyone is free to move, the only barriers that remain are those of our political debates. once again, unfortunately, we are not starting a european election campaign, but 27 national campaigns on a european pretext. the economic area exists, the single currency exists, the single european sky exists, but the single political area has yet to be created. this is the real issue in the lisbon treaty, and this provision is certainly one of the most helpful.
being a janus member of congress myself on the same committee as you, costas, i could only give you this gift of 40 seconds.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members for this interesting debate, which has been partly consensual on a number of issues, partly a repetition of well-known arguments for and against the treaty, and partly a very interesting debate about what constitutes democracy. this is the first time i have heard about totalitarian systems that allow referendum after referendum in a number of member states, and why some referenda results are forgotten or do not count – mainly those that have meant a ‘yes’. it has also been a discussion about legitimacy. i still find it strange – and i have said this before – that a parliament like this one should say that a decision by a national parliament is anti-democratic or does not count or is not legitimate. as for the commission, it has always held the opinion that whatever system one chooses – a vote by referendum or through a national parliamentary decision – it is democratically legitimate. i do not see that any other position would be possible. any european citizen listening to this debate would wish us to go back to these reports, which actually reflect some serious concerns about the way we take decisions, about the rule book, about how to strengthen the democratic functioning of this european union, and about how to use the budget in the right way in order to put resources to our political priorities. all these things are taken up by these important reports. this is also about how to take decisions in an effective and hopefully more rapid way. i found mr lundgren’s intervention absolutely flabbergasting. do we really think the whole idea is to make things slower, and to slow down decision-making when dealing with an economic crisis like the one we are seeing now? people expect us to take action to ensure jobs and growth, to deal with climate change and the energy crisis and to tackle the problems that come with immigration and security – all of those things. that is the basis, also, for these reports. that is why we are here and that is how we gain democratic legitimacy – if we show that we can act and that we can act swiftly. i do not think that any arrogant, snobbish intervention, giving us lessons about this or that, helps us either. it is really about tackling these problems, which today are not national. they are european and international, and we have to have a modern rule book. we have to have a more democratic union which allows citizens to take the initiative. we never hear anything about that from those that are against. we never hear them say anything about the democratic strength of what is in the lisbon treaty; that is clearly missing. these reports give us a good grounding and a good platform to reform the way we work. from the commission’s side, we are of course willing to follow up and to work on all the details to ensure that we can implement this swiftly. a last point on ireland, is that after this ‘yes’ in the czech senate, all eyes will of course be on ireland again, and on the possibility of ratification by the end of the year. the issue of the legal guarantees is of course essential here, and both content and timing is very important. we are confident from the commission side that the eu council will be able to settle this issue, and i know also that careful preparations are taking place at the moment and we will, if given the possibility, also contribute from the commission side. thank you very much and thank you also for this being partly a social event, where people are thanking each other for the good cooperation and wishing all those who are leaving good luck. i guess we will all meet in the election campaign in one way or the other. (applause)
commissioner, on behalf of parliament, since this is the last night sitting, you can be sure that we have been very sensitive to the excellence of our reports throughout this parliament. thank you again.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, this debate has been very interesting, very exciting. but let me take up with humour what mr kamall said earlier, because to call us old people - and therefore fossils - when we retire, to make room for young people, is absolutely exquisite. but what i wanted to say to all those who have vilified this draft treaty is: do not confuse democracy with demagogy! you see, for eight years in this parliament, in the whole of europe, we have been living not a psychodrama but a political drama in which europe has been mired, and we can see that we are missing the problems of the day. this debate has strengthened my conviction that this treaty must be implemented, despite all the difficulties that have been raised, because its content will bring transparency. it will bring democracy, and we all need this democratic shock to refocus the european project on politics, and on politics of the 21st century in today's world. the budget is only a tool, but it will ensure that the institutions are brought back into balance and, through this transparency, we will be able to know the attitude of parliament, the commission and, above all, the council. this political will is indispensable. this transparency is essential to combat the cancer of national egoism which has been eating away at the european political project for so many years. i hope that this transparency will give all european citizens a new conviction that it will enable us to develop information better, because it is very difficult. mrs wallström, you have been working on this for years, you are just beginning to make progress, and we must persevere. all this requires conviction, time and above all political courage, which is lacking. we must recover political courage and the sense of utopia, the utopia of the founding fathers of the european union, of those who believed that peace could be born of war. in our own way, today, in the 21st century, we must meet this challenge, and one of the tools that will help us do so is the lisbon treaty. let us take up utopia, and utopia for peace!
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
we now come to the explanations of vote for today. i'm sure you'll be thrilled to hear this, but i have a very large number of people who have signed up, and i believe they're here.
mr. heaton-harris, i'd like to clarify a point of order. it is after the vote, but not immediately after the vote. the difference allows us to interpret things. we are now coming to a report on which i am very glad that mr heaton-harris has wished to speak, because it is the report by mr gérard onesta.
on my watch, we have just kicked off the last day of our legislative work. mr. heaton-harris, i'd like to give you the honor.
i'm sorry we can't have video explanations of votes, that would be delicious.
if i remember correctly, from the moment we interpreters have to work after midnight, they are entitled to a special recovery. so we need to hire new crews to give them a well-deserved rest. at 23:59 the rule doesn't apply, at 0:01 it does, but the exact cost, i don't know.
forgive me, my dear daniel, for contradicting you, because the committee on constitutional affairs asked itself the question a long time ago: "once the debate is over" does not mean "immediately after the end of the debate". we are fine, currently "after the debate is over", but i'm sure you'll come back to the charge to change that thing, i trust you.
mrs oviir, you are not bothering me at all, and i am pleased to inform you that you are the last speaker on the final report.
mrs. oviir, your fan club stayed until the end. the next sitting will resume shortly, because it is already thursday 7 may 2009, the last day of the sixth parliamentary term of the european parliament.
mr president, i should first like to express my deep gratitude to mrs ruth hieronymi and to the committee on culture and education. the development of the european film industry throughout the world is made possible by this new media mundus programme. in fact, this program is rooted in a policy. it was prepared by the media international action, which since 2007 has focused on developing the european union's relations with audiovisual markets in third countries. the objective of this action was to meet the immediate needs of third countries and to enhance the overall effectiveness of media 2007. the new problems and challenges arising from the internationalisation of markets affecting the european audiovisual sector had to be addressed. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, including the purchase of equipment and installations for the use of the commission's premises, the purchase of equipment and installations, the purchase of equipment and installations for the use of the commission's premises, the purchase of equipment and installations for the use of the commission's premises, the purchase of equipment and installations for the use of the commission's premises, the purchase of equipment and installations for the use of the commission's premises, the purchase of equipment and installations for the use of the commission's premises, the purchase of equipment and installations for the use of the commission's premises, the purchase of equipment and installations for the use of the commission's premises, the purchase of equipment and installations for the use of the commission's premises, the purchase of equipment and installations for the use of the commission's premises, the purchase of equipment and installations for the use of the premises, and very quickly, the european commission - which i congratulate - adopted a proposal to establish the media mundus programme. with a budget of €15 million for the period 2011-2013, the programme will offer new opportunities for international cooperation and networking - and this concept of networking is extremely important - between professionals from the european union and third countries in the field of the audiovisual industry. audiovisual media are popular with young people. it is a huge driver of cultural dialogue and it is also a question here of establishing new global balances in this sector between the united states and other continents, which are major producers, and europe, which has its place. the programme is open to projects based on partnerships involving at least three partners, each partner being coordinated by a professional from the european union. developing information exchanges, training, good knowledge of markets, increasing the competitiveness and transnational distribution of audiovisual works in the world, the dissemination and visibility of audiovisual works in the world and the demand for cultural diversity on the part of the public are all taken into account in this programme. we support the european commission's proposal, which allows the establishment of this consensual programme on which we have all agreed. i hope to support this text because it reflects my convictions, my convictions of respect, of intercultural dialogue, my convictions of support for creativity, for training, for the audiovisual industry, and i am very grateful to ruth hieronymi. i know that in the next parliament we will have to ask him to continue to work towards this.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 1999 it has already been said the european union adopted a directive banning asbestos on 1 january 2005, but allowing a derogation for the diaphragms of existing electrolysis cells until the end of their life. this derogation, which was to be reviewed before 1 january, was intended to enable the undertakings concerned to plan for the end of the use of asbestos. we are here today, 18 months behind schedule; so it's time to move on. while the commission is proposing, in the context of the revision of annex xvii to reach, to extend the current ban on the use and placing on the market of asbestos fibres and products related to these fibres, it maintains the possibility to use asbestos in plant electrolysis plants, without time limit, whereas non-asbestos alternatives exist and are used by many companies. the commission also adopted a provision authorising the placing on the market of articles containing asbestos under a scheme which could vary from one country to another. this is unacceptable, because the use of this product is responsible for a large number of diseases linked to exposure to asbestos fibres, and the number of patients affected is expected to continue to increase in the coming years, due to the use of this product only a few years ago. the health effects of asbestos have been known for a long time. the commission's decision also undermines certain provisions of reach, in particular the principle of substitution; it sends the wrong signal to other companies. the current economic crisis cannot justify this extension. in addition, this position of the commission, followed by a majority of member states in the council, is not consistent with the position of the european union, which wants to achieve a worldwide ban on asbestos. finally, the european trade union confederation today says that it was not consulted on the matter and that only the views of certain companies were heard and taken into account. the commission, however, claims otherwise. can you shed some light on that?
mr president, i listened to mr bono earlier and i do not underestimate the fact that there are particular cases, particularly in italy, where we would prefer to see a liberalisation of the time slots. but i think we must keep our heads cool and realise that the crisis is affecting the airline industry with unprecedented speed and depth. this is probably one of the first sectors to adjust budgets, the budget of companies for business customers, the budget of households for summer customers. the other option would have been to reopen the slots completely, and probably end up in a scenario where the most powerful airlines would have run their empty planes at the best slots, would have abandoned the least profitable land planning slots and where the low cost ones, which have a different economic model, would have taken advantage of this to sell a few slots. in short, it would probably have been a redistribution of the cards in the worst circumstances which would have had nothing to do with a real economy, with a functioning market, but would probably have been instead a matter of social dumping or defending positions acquired for the most powerful companies. that is why i consider this moratorium to be the least bad of solutions, provided it is temporary, that we follow the events of the crisis and the impact of this crisis closely, that we come back to parliament, and that we reopen the slots market by taking the time to change the policy and to stabilise a new policy of the european union. this is my last speech to this house. it is a great privilege, after ten years in the same committee, to be speaking at the very end of the parliamentary term in one of the last debates, amongst friends, and i would like to say how much i have enjoyed and will cherish the memories of working with such strong and brilliant people. this committee was an elite committee, i think it must be said. it has done a remarkable job, it honours parliamentary work, it honours the european parliament. i would like to thank all my colleagues from all the political groups. i don't think i'll ever find a political experience as rich, as honest, as sincere, as profound as this one. i would also like to say to mr tajani that i congratulate him on having accepted, during the course of this parliamentary term, a mandate and a portfolio as difficult as transport, and that he deserves, because patience and time are of the essence here, to have that portfolio back in the next commission mandate. my dear colleagues, thank you for everything.
in writing. i am pleased that agreement has been reached on this text to allow the freezing of air slots for the summer season. we had to act quickly and effectively in the face of the serious crisis in air transport. this is the third time that the union has had to use this automatic slot renewal mechanism following a significant drop in air traffic. the rule that 80% of slots must be filled, if it is necessary for the balance of the sector, is sometimes out of step with market realities, as we have recently seen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's airspace is not used for the purpose for which it was designed. in the future, we might consider ways of relaxing this rule while taking into account the situation at airports. i am also pleased to note that the compromise which has been negotiated between parliament and the council calls for a full impact study in the event of a renewal of the freeze on slots. the text we are voting on is an emergency measure, but if the situation were to continue, it would indeed be necessary to take account not only of the situation of airlines but also of the situation of consumers and airports.
we are going to start a somewhat special voting session, because for all those who, like myself, are leaving parliament, i think that this last moment we are going to spend together will be a little emotional. i shall take the opportunity now that some of my colleagues are late and are settling in to pay tribute to the session department, which has kept our tower of babel from falling. (applause from the left) i would like to thank birgitte stensballe and her entire team, the bailiffs who make sure that the documents always arrive at the right place at the right time, the technicians, the secretaries, the translators. of course, i thank the interpreters, to whom i offer my sincere apologies. i know the stress i caused you by presiding very quickly. (applause) i know you secretly hope that my record of 900 amendments voted in one hour will never be beaten! in closing, i'll let you in on a little secret, while the last of my colleagues settle in. you may be wondering how we classify our amendments: is amendment x written in latvian closer to the original portuguese text than the amendment written in slovenian? who's doing this sorting? well, the answer's sitting right next to me. it is this gentleman who has the formidable task of doing this semantic sorting. why are we entrusting it to him? simply because paul dunstan speaks 27 languages. (applause) i think we can all be very proud of the quality and dedication of our staff.
your personal statement is of course recorded, in accordance with our regulations. we are not opening a debate, ladies and gentlemen. i'm giving you 30 seconds, but i'm warning you, it's gonna be 30 seconds, out of courtesy, because these are really the last moments of the legislature.
i would point out that this was a recall to the rules of procedure, on the basis of rule 145, for personal reasons. mr titley's request to speak before this house was well founded.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
our colleague hans-peter martin asks to speak, and it must be for a recall of the rules.
i wasn't trying to remind you of the rules, but i did have the courtesy of not making you a martyr.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are going to be disappointed. you'll be disappointed by the brevity of my remarks. first of all, i would like to make a technical correction to paragraph 16, in footnote 2, the last digit is '2021' instead of '2022'. it's a matter of arithmetic. i would like to add a few political remarks to begin by thanking all those who have helped me to draw up this report, which may seem to you extremely technical, but which is eminently political. it is very important that our parliament should vote on this report, because it clarifies the future of parliament's budgetary powers as a budgetary authority. often you vote on the budget as a management instrument, when it is the very essence of policy and the role of parliament will depend on its implementation. this is what we wanted to deal with in this report. i hope you'll read it one day. but let me say that the new members of parliament will have to take up this challenge and know that to make a european policy requires budgetary courage and that the future of the union depends on this courage, which i hope they all have and we all have. (applause) i would like to thank
ladies and gentlemen, i shall give you the opinion of the legal service and the president of the european parliament, because, of course, he has been consulted in accordance with our rules of procedure.
mr president, i simply wanted to say, on a legal level, to mr nassauer that the pope does not count the years, because he counts eternity.
please, please... the legal service therefore checked this carefully, in terms of the technical aspects, the elements cited, the content and the period under consideration. the legal service is of the opinion that the amendment is admissible, and so is the president of the european parliament. the only valid opinion is therefore that of mr pöttering. so, mr nassauer, i am sorry, but the amendment is acceptable. - before the vote on paragraph 25
yes, excuse me, my tongue is out of joint. the majority were against it. it was nice to have it checked, but the services had already corrected my mistake. thank you for your precision.
i can confirm that amendment no 1 is in the form of an addition.
mr president, article 1 of the european parliament's code of honour, on behalf of my group i would like to thank you for the sessions you have chaired. you were one of the best. - thank you. - thank you. (applause from the left)
it is true that we are approaching the final vote, but let me make a brief personal note to thank you for your trust and friendship over so long a period of time. for the last time in this legislature, and for the last time in my life, i'm going to ask you to vote. then we'll separate. i am convinced that, despite our political differences and our different backgrounds, we will all remain true to european ideals, but i want you to know that for me, having had the good fortune to chair these debates for the past ten years, in this collegial atmosphere, will always remain a great honour in my life. (applause from the left)
i also want to thank you, and i'd like to point out that the second clause contains the error of no longer putting you on the list. that's too bad. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you. - thank you.
in writing. two weeks ago the european parliament adopted a report on the common immigration policy for europe, laying the foundations for a massive immigration already planned by the european commission. today it's the turn of the asylum seekers. the aim is to establish a 'europe of asylum'. the clearly stated objective is to ensure that asylum seekers are treated to a higher standard of care in their reception conditions. this means not only standardizing minimum reception standards across all countries but also encouraging their mass installation. to this end, the scope of application of this future directive will be extended to all persons entering the territory of the union, whether legally or not. the administrative restrictions on access to the labour market in the member states will have to be removed. social, medical, psychological, housing and legal assistance must be provided by the host state. refusal of these grants will be subject to checks and legal remedies...which is often not the case for the nationals themselves... by adopting this second phase of the 'asylum package', brussels is facilitating and encouraging global immigration to europe. we will always oppose this globalist vision which has as its sole purpose the outright destruction of the peoples of europe and of the european nations.
in writing. for the last vote of this term, we are called upon to decide on the asylum package. this is the culmination of a process which has been going on throughout this parliament. while some progress has been made, differences between states still persist in the area of refugee recognition. i want to see the limitations that can be noted in the directive on the reception conditions for asylum seekers. it is again the member states who are in the forefront, to the detriment of the necessary european unity in this field. i hope that in the next mandate, at second reading, we will be able to reverse this situation and create a genuine european right of asylum that will provide genuine protection for these particularly vulnerable men and women.
in writing. all the reports on asylum voted today have a lax and extensive interpretation of the right to asylum, which will ultimately harm those who really need international protection to save their lives, their physical integrity or their freedom. the new social, financial, family and other rights that you want to impose on states to grant asylum seekers will become a vacuum pump for all economic immigration applicants, help to overwhelm the services in charge of these issues, further slow down the processing of files. because you repeatedly refuse to take account of the abuses and misuse of procedures, and you persist in confusing the rights and status that recognized refugees might have with the status you want to grant to mere applicants. but the most unacceptable is the lambert report, which creates a so-called european support agency, which will be able to distribute asylum seekers among the countries of the european union as it sees fit. we are not opposed to intergovernmental cooperation in these areas, with due regard for the sovereign right of states to decide who may enter their territory and under what conditions. but we are to your policies.
in writing. the relations which have developed between the audiovisual industries of the member states of the union and those of third countries must be continued and strengthened in the interests of both professionals and consumers. the media mundus audiovisual cooperation programme, as adopted today by the european parliament, which i support, is part of this objective. it provides an appropriate framework for increasing the competitiveness and transnational distribution of audiovisual works worldwide. the programme, initiated by the european parliament, should also help to promote cultural diversity and add real value to the actions already undertaken in this field by the union and the member states. the efforts of our rapporteur to reach an agreement at first reading should therefore open up new business opportunities in the near future, and offer audiovisual professionals prospects for long-term working relations with those in third countries.
in writing. under the guise of fighting mafias and criminal organizations of all kinds, the brussels eurocrats still want to impose their federalist views that destroy nations, peoples and identities. while there is no doubt that each member state of the union has its own laws, legal traditions or codes, here is yet another attack by these fanatical euro-federalists: the desire to create a "european judicial culture". the european court of justice is the only institution in the world which has the power to decide on the legality of acts of the european union. what about the national law schools? what about the inextricable differences between the laws of customary law and those of written law? no answer is given, of course. in concrete terms, it is the entire judicial and criminal systems of the states which, in the face of this forced (i.e. bottom-up) harmonisation, will disappear. these sorcerer apprentices of europe have understood nothing, only the nation states, the basic elements of europe, can enrich it and give it back its full place in the world. europe must not be built at the expense of its nations and peoples.
in writing. we voted against this report firstly because it is without purpose: the treaty of lisbon does not exist, it was rejected in three referendums. secondly, because it advocates the subordination of national parliaments to the european parliament: the latter, because of its superiority and probably its unbearable arrogance, would support the national parliaments, which in its eyes are probably composed of ignorant and uneducated people, in examining european texts. support or pressure? would it invite itself to the plenary sessions of national assemblies, play the role of adviser, influence the way in which they transpose texts to encourage uniformity, impose itself to debate defence budgets... also dictate to them how they should monitor governments and their activities within the council? finally, because it is based on a double hypocrisy: the national parliaments have only been given a right of control which is very complicated to implement and therefore has little effect on compliance with the principle of subsidiarity; this principle is misleading, since many of the european union's so-called exclusive competences are sanctioned and the definition of subsidiarity given by the treaties de facto favours the powers of brussels.
in writing. the kaufmann report aims to provide guidance on how to implement a 'citizens' initiative', as defined in article 11 of the stillborn treaty on european union: 'at least one million citizens of the union, who are nationals of a significant number of member states, may take the initiative to invite the european commission, within the framework of its powers, to submit an appropriate proposal on matters for which they consider that a legal act of the union is necessary for the purpose of applying the treaties'. the report therefore sets out precise conditions for admissibility and concrete procedures which, incidentally, make it very difficult to bring such an 'initiative' to fruition. i want to warn the citizens here. this new "right" is a decoy. it provides only one thing: the possibility of asking the commission for new european laws, but not to repeal or change existing ones; not to change policies. and in any case, the commission has absolutely no obligation to listen to them. if the eurocrats are so keen to give rights to the citizens of europe, let them first respect their vote and finally understand that 'no' means 'no' in french, dutch, english, gaelic and all languages.
author. - madam president, we cannot remain silent on the situation in madagascar and we will not be the only ones to condemn it. the african union, the southern african development community, the international organisation of la francophonie, the inter-parliamentary union, the european union, speaking through the commission, the usa, a large number of countries, including my own and norway - to speak of countries on the european continent - have condemned the coup d'état - because one must call a spade a spade - that took place in madagascar. we cannot remain silent and we demand a return to constitutional legality. we never ask for a return to square one with, if necessary, arbitration by the malagasy people through a consultation in the form of a presidential vote or a referendum. it is up to the assemblies and political leaders of madagascar to determine the most effective form of consultation. so what we are asking for with this joint resolution is to add our voice to that of the international community to make it clear to those who have seized power in a completely undemocratic way in the form of a coup d'état - however dressed up - to return to the constitutional legality of madagascar, which is one of the guarantors of the future development of this great island in the indian ocean.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, this was not planned, but i think it is a joy for all of us here that for the first time we have no eastern or western europeans in this parliament. we simply have a europe in the symbol of our president who is in the gallery today. (applause) this is unity, this is also our responsibility, as you said earlier, my dear jerzy buzek. forget east and west in the two and a half years of your presidency and speak only of one europe, that is what i wish for you and for europe.
mr president, i was resigned to being a little forgotten, like my unregistered colleagues, which i certainly express by congratulating you personally, but a little less, it must be said, on the way you have been elected, since your triumphant election is in a way the result of an agreement between the two main groups in this house, which are somewhat artificially opposed to the timing of an election and then, for five years, hammered the parliament. mr president, i hope that you will dominate your victory, that you will not be a slave to these two main groups, that you will know how to defend the rights of minorities and, in particular, of the dissidents that we are, of those who are concerned about the effects of the globalisation of the economy on their identity, the universal mixing of people, goods and capital, who do not believe that this is necessarily a source of benefits and who resent the indefinite increase in the powers of the european union in relation to their national freedom. we're sort of the dissidents like you were. we hope that you will protect the rights of dissidents and, in particular, that you will ensure that this regulation is respected, and that it is not systematically changed as soon as it is seen that it can benefit those who are, i believe, the real defenders of the freedoms of the european nations. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, put the numbers on the screen so that we can all see them. it is not very difficult. (applause)
mr president, the lithuanian parliament voted yesterday on a law on homosexuality, propaganda on homosexuality and bisexuality. the lithuanian president had already refused to sign the law. she's back in the house. this law is in direct contradiction with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and article 6.1 of the lisbon treaty. i ask you, mr president, on behalf of this parliament, to protest against this law in the name of european values, because the charter of fundamental rights, as adopted by the lisbon treaty, provides for non-discrimination in matters of sexual orientation and this law is discrimination against sexual minorities. on behalf of this parliament, i ask you to write to the lithuanian parliament to say that this law is against the common idea of europe. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, can you tell me whether you are going to act or not? i ask you to do something, you have to tell me if you're going to do it or not. that's what i asked you.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr president of the european commission, your presidency, mr prime minister, once again demonstrates the urgency of the european union having a stable presidency. this is what the treaty of lisbon provides for. i found you, mr prime minister, a little bit silent and i would like to hear your opinion on the troika programme that your government signed in june 2008 with france and sweden, and we look forward to hearing sweden's work programme on this subject, particularly on three issues: the doha agenda, the millennium goals and the union for the mediterranean. what is your opinion, mr prime minister, of this instrument and what is your assessment of the troika, which is already beginning a stable presidency of the european union?
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the parliament, it is not my custom to address you, but for the first time today i will devote a minute to you. first, my dear jerzy, i greet you as a resistance fighter and one of the founders of solidarity, the man from silesia who never denied his roots, his history and his values. the epp group is also proud to have convinced the vast majority of members, including mr schulz, of all tendencies, to make you the spokesman for 500 million citizens. yes, mr president, your election is the symbol of that open europe, that tolerant europe, that political europe which the epp and most of our colleagues here defend. mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, we expect you to take action during the swedish presidency in the next six months. in other words, in the face of the economic and climate double game, we say that we must go faster, that we must go further to get out of the crisis, by making our model of social market economy fully functional. i am convinced that it is the vitality of the economy and only it that enables us to carry out the real social policy we need. if we want recovery and if we want it to come from europe and not from asia, as is predicted, we absolutely have to accelerate the movement today. at the end of the crisis, the winners will be those who have made the bet on innovation, training, in short, action. the epp proposes that support for small and medium-sized enterprises be strengthened, as they are a key lever for maintaining and creating jobs. and the economic crisis - i emphasize this - requires not a national response but a european response. moreover, our fellow citizens are convinced of this, just look at the polls in the various countries: more than 66% of germans and more than 70% of europeans are convinced. the epp also expects you to go faster and further, mr reinfeldt and mr barroso, in the fight against global warming. it is up to europe, under your leadership, to lead the world in this action, the urgency and priority of which is recognized by everyone here. and what a great opportunity to act and accelerate the movement is the climate conference in copenhagen in december, that is to say, on our own territory! on climate, europe has undeniably proved that when it wants to, it can. it is now a matter of transforming the test, of dragging the other world powers with us. i'm thinking of the united states, of course, which must turn words into action, but i'm also thinking of the emerging countries, whether it's china, india or brazil, which can no longer ignore that their heavy responsibility in global warming is effective. we will therefore judge the swedish presidency on its responses to the crisis and in the light of its environmental performance. i would like to conclude by saying that if europe is to act strongly on both fronts, it must have the right institutions. the past year has shown us that with the same treaty, with the same rule of unanimity, one can move europe forward but also bring it to a standstill. it is a question of political will, mr president. the epp group is calling for the process to be speeded up within six months, and we trust the swedish presidency. accelerating the process is what the europeans asked for when they elected this parliament and it is what we must give them if we want them to go to the polls in greater numbers in five years' time. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we have two questions. the first is the question of the crisis. as everyone knows, we need a coherent and common response to the economic and social crisis and therefore a european recovery plan to boost investment and support employment. europe must now be more attentive, closer to our citizens in the difficulties they are experiencing. it must do more to help those who are hit by the crisis. from this point of view, there is urgency. the second question is, in the final analysis, the question of the new model of development which must emerge from the crisis, a model which is more sober, fairer and more sustainable, which puts finance at the service of the real economy, which develops new forms of solidarity between europeans, which takes account of social and environmental issues in international trade and which profoundly reforms our relations with the poorest countries of the world, and i am thinking in particular of africa. these two major issues are accompanied by a democratic requirement concerning the process for which you, the swedish presidency, are responsible. cecilia malmström i am happy to welcome you today knows better than anyone that there are very important differences between the treaty of nice and the treaty of lisbon in this process of appointment: simple majority on the one hand, qualified majority on the other, appointment on the one hand, proposal on the other, number of commissioners differing according to one or the other of the treaties. i ask you to respect the spirit and the letter of the treaties. this is your responsibility and it is very important for the credibility of our institutions. thank you in advance.
for the greens/efa group madam commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when a people wants to be free, it arouses our admiration and solidarity. it is for the iranian people. it is true that these elections were truncated at the bottom but even in these elections, we saw that the iranian people knew how to find the flaw to express their desire for freedom and democracy. it is true that it is in our interest - nobody disputes this - that dialogue be maintained with the iranian terrorist power. but at the same time, we cannot just go on the agenda. what happened in tehran is truly horrible. torture is a daily occurrence in iranian prisons, but not just for british nationals. iranian men and women are tortured daily in these prisons as well. europe must therefore speak out. i know that it is difficult to strike a balance between the interests of the iranian people and their defense, and our interests which are not always the same. but as complicated as it is, it must be stressed that we stand with the iranian people every day. i ask the commission and the council to analyse the involvement of nokia and siemens and the responsibility of european arms in the repression of the iranian people. it is not possible that it was the big european companies that allowed the iranian regime to suppress the freedom and the desire for freedom of the iranian people. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to take the floor to ask that our house make a clear statement in favour of financial and technical sanctions against iran. of course, there are many, many arguments against sanctions, because they will have consequences on the lives of iranian citizens. but the worst thing, mr president, for the iranian people would not be the shortages caused by these sanctions, the worst would be our silence, the worst would be our inaction. sanctions, mr president, would mean that we are not indifferent, and i think that is the main thing. that is why, mr president, our house must demand financial sanctions against iran.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i have listened very attentively to the different assessments and views expressed. this is, as has been pointed out, a most important debate on a most important subject. i think it can fairly be said that we stand united in our assessment of what has been happening, what we have seen on the television screens and, more importantly, what we have heard from the people who know even more than what can be seen on the television screens. i would like to take issue with someone who said we have not been clear enough. if you make a comparison with what the european union has said, and what every other significant world body of actors has said, there is no question that we are the ones that have been the most clear, the most consistent, the strongest in the words that we have used. we would have wished those words to have more of an effect than they already have, but that is often the case. but, while words are, nevertheless, important – no question about that – we are discussing primarily what has been happening in iran since the election on 12 june. i think it is important also to focus on what we saw on the television screens before 12 june, because that was suddenly a somewhat different iran from the one we were used to. there was an element within the boundaries of the regime, certainly, of vitality, an element of plurality, an obvious desire for change, for openness, for reform. whether that represented the majority of iranians or not is very difficult to judge from the outside, but that it was significant is testified not least by the force of the crackdown that we saw after 12 june. so in condemning what we have seen after, we should not forget what we saw before and the long-term significance of that. i think we are united in what we say and what we think. mr saryusz-wolski, mr cohn-bendit and mr mauro: virtually the same, if we look at what we are assessing. but the most difficult thing is not what we say; the most difficult thing is what we do faced with this situation. i think we must then operate along two lines. the first one is fairly obvious. the european union must be the clear voice for human rights and democracy wherever and under whatever circumstances. there might be other factors coming into consideration of policy as well, but it should not dilute in any way from the consistency of our defence for human rights. so we must condemn the killings, the use of the death sentence. we must call for the release of those detained. we must be clear in our call for full respect for the freedom and the rights that are there for every human being in our world. secondly – and i think here there might be some dissent – we must also be prepared to engage. i say that, recognising that that is a far more difficult policy than just to stand back, do nothing or try to isolate: that is easy; to engage is difficult. mr kelam alluded to some of the historical experience we have, with the balancing act that that entails. but the fact that we have a certain amount of historical experience in europe – reflected not the least here – perhaps makes it possible for us to venture along that particular road. we should never believe that just a diplomatic dialogue can sort out every issue that has been addressed here: it cannot. other factors will come in to that particular equation. but neither should we forget that there are some issues that we have a duty to seek to resolve through diplomatic dialogue. i am thinking of the individuals employed at the british embassy, or the french student and others, that we must deal with now in a dialogue. i come from a country where 1% of our citizens have a background in iran. they move back and forth. we have consular issues that are of a multitude that is difficult to fathom. we need to be prepared to engage, to help individuals in different cases, without believing that that is going to sort out everything at once. we have the nuclear dossier that has been alluded to. there might be others who believe there are far more simple solutions to that. i do not think there is any solution if we do not engage in a true diplomatic dialogue on that. those are other issues that we need to engage on. this is obviously going to be more demanding and more difficult in the circumstances that we now have, there is no question about that, and i think the discussion in the committee on foreign affairs last week highlighted some of the difficult choices and some of the difficult judgements that we have to make in not only the coming weeks, but months – but not very much longer than that. here we must engage – you, us in the council and us as europeans – with other significant international actors, not only with americans with a new and good approach by the obama administration, but also engage with others – the un security council, russia, china, and with the wider world community. it is only then that we can hope to be able to start resolving not only the immediate issues, but also the other issues that need to be addressed. i am grateful for this debate. i think it has highlighted the clear unanimity that we have when it comes to defending our values, but it has also highlighted some of the difficult choices and balancing acts that we have to engage in in the months and years ahead. we know what we want to achieve; we must also seek to achieve it. but do not think it is going to be easy. i can assure you that the council will continue to be very much engaged with all aspects of this particular dossier. (applause)
mr president, i am sorry, but i have just been given some information and i would like to pass it on to the council and to all my colleagues. natalia estemirova, who was a candidate for the european parliament's sakharov prize, was abducted this morning in grozny and is in the hands of unknown kidnappers. i ask the council and the commission and the members of parliament to protest so that moscow knows that natalia estemirova is on its mind.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to condemn in the strongest possible terms, as my predecessors did, the coup d'état against the government of president zelaya in honduras. his arbitrary detention and expulsion from the country violates the constitutional order which must be restored as soon as possible. the military takeover that led to micheletti's self-proclamation as the new president is a reminder of the darkest times we have ever known in central america, and this attack on democracy is unacceptable to us. i therefore welcome the oas decision to suspend honduras' participation in the organization and the mediation accepted by president oscar arias to help find a solution. but i am also very concerned, commissioner, about the trade relations between the european union and that country. for several months now, the european commission has been negotiating a new generation association agreement with central america. due to the coup, meetings scheduled for last week have been cancelled. that's something to be thankful for. i thought i heard you, but i'd like to know more. is the commission determined to suspend the negotiations until the institutional political situation in honduras has been normalized? i would like to ask the commissioner to give me a few more details on the commission's position on this matter. another issue i would like to raise, commissioner, is the generalized system of preferences which honduras enjoys. several civil society organizations have reported on the arbitrary decisions and violations of human rights since the coup, including freedom of movement, association and expression. the european commission must be very firm on this. the gsp+ is an incentive with clear commitments attached to its benefits. the evidence is more than enough to cast doubt on the commitment of the honduran state to the self-proclaimed president. i therefore ask the commission to investigate the possibility of temporarily withdrawing the gsp+ preferences granted to honduras.
mr president, our peaceful principles must not lead us to give the impression that we are backing the coup in honduras and the constitutional government by appeals to both sides of the conflict to exercise restraint. in such a case, the violence of the insurgents fighting for the return of president zelaya is legitimate and that of the coup plotters is criminal. the personal mobilization of the heads of state of central and south america to obtain the unconditional reinstatement of constitutional president manuel zelaya shows that the whole continent wants to put an end once and for all to the period of coups d'état and dictatorships. following the unanimous decisions of the un and all the regional cooperation organizations, europe must take its part in this fight because it is a fight and not an arrangement. this is a historic fight. europe must stop all relations of any kind political, commercial and any negotiations with the factional regime until the unconditional and unnegotiated reinstatement of president zelaya because there is nothing to negotiate when it comes to democracy. europe must ask the obama administration and the united states of america to also break off their commercial and military relations with the factional regime. it is at this price that we will live up to the principles which we so often claim to hold against others.
mr president, i will be extremely brief. it is a reminder of the rules of procedure for the conference of presidents which, as you have said, mr president, determines the agenda. our rules of procedure provide that the conference of presidents is to be composed of you, of course, and the group chairmen, and also a representative of the non-attached members. at present, the representative of the non-registered has not yet been appointed. a number of non-attached members have written to you about this and are quite willing to meet you. it would be good if you, mr president, could convene a meeting of all the non-attached members so that they can, in accordance with the rules of procedure, elect their delegate to the conference of presidents so that the conference can take its decisions in full.
for the greens/efa group ladies and gentlemen, the conference of presidents has decided by a vote to put the election and appointment of the president of the commission on wednesday's agenda. we shall have a debate on the commission president's proposals on tuesday afternoon. we propose to postpone the vote on his appointment for the simple reason that in 22 days' time there will be a referendum in ireland. this referendum is crucial for the acceptance or rejection of the lisbon treaty. a poll that came out today tells us that 62% of the irish are preparing to vote yes. i think we must respect the vote of the irish, whether we are for or against the lisbon treaty, but to appoint a president under the treaty of nice, when we have the possibility, at least those who are for the lisbon treaty, of having a commission and its president appointed under the lisbon treaty, it seems to us absurd to bring forward a vote by 21 days. in october we will know what to expect. the polish president has solemnly declared that he will sign the treaty of lisbon after the irish referendum. the czech constitutional court has solemnly declared that it will activate the decision on the two complaints against the lisbon treaty because, the last time, it unanimously said that the lisbon treaty is constitutional. so there was no possibility for the czech president to say no, once the treaty was ratified in poland, once the treaty was ratified in ireland. i'm finished right now, but this is very important, mr president. it is parliament that is playing its identity on this issue, and if we do not have two minutes to think about it, we have not played our role as parliamentarians. this is a big deal. that is why i am asking you, not to vote yes or no on mr barroso, but to vote after the irish and to postpone the vote today and vote next month if necessary.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, you know me, i always respect my time when i speak. firstly, i do not understand mr cohn-bendit: he should have already asked for the postponement of the european parliament elections in order to have the lisbon treaty. as the treaty of nice is now before the european parliament, we ask that it be applied until the treaty of lisbon enters into force. i will also ask that, before we can vote on barroso again, we abide by the rules to the end. parliament must be in order to move to lisbon and then we can vote on barroso-lisbon, mr cohn-bendit. otherwise, we are not consistent. that's the thing i wanted to tell you. in order to have a commission, and i shall be asking for it tomorrow, i am asking that after the referendum on 2 october we set up a commission on the basis of the existing treaty, that is to say, the treaty of nice. we shall discuss lisbon when the time comes, when mr cohn-bendit has convinced mr klaus to sign the treaty and since he is prepared to do so, he will do so very quickly. we will put parliament under lisbon and then we will elect our president of the commission under lisbon. because if you want to be consistent, you have to be consistent all the way. we now need a commission that works in the face of the crisis, we need a commission that works in the face of copenhagen. but you know that we still have a long time before all the commissioners and the commission are in order. that is why my group, which is also responsible, is asking that we vote for the president of the commission on wednesday. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution approving the appointment of mr algirdas šemeta as a member of the european commission. i have, however, some doubts about the legal aspects of this decision. under article 215 (3) of the treaty establishing the european community, which lays down the rules in the event of a commissioner resigning, the council, acting by a qualified majority, appoints the replacement commissioner. the european parliament has, in my view, no power in this particular case, and its rules of procedure, which in annex xvii, point 2, second paragraph, provide for a secret ballot, are not in accordance with the treaty. this last article of the rules of procedure is binding on the european parliament but not on the commissioner who is duly appointed. article 214 (2) of the ec treaty, which is curiously mentioned as the legal basis for the resolution, does not concern the appointment of a commissioner in the event of his resignation, but the vote of approval of the commission as a whole as a college. it is also curious that this resolution was taken on the basis of rule 106 (4), which concerns the election of the whole commission and not the replacement of a commissioner.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution approving the appointment of mr pawel samecki as a member of the european commission. i have, however, some doubts about the legal aspects of this decision. under article 215 (3) of the treaty establishing the european community, which lays down the rules in the event of a commissioner resigning, the council, acting by a qualified majority, appoints the replacement commissioner. in my view, the european parliament has no power in this particular case, and its rules of procedure, which in annex xvii, point 2, second paragraph, provide for a secret ballot, are not in accordance with the treaty. this last article of the rules of procedure is binding on the european parliament but not on the commissioner who is duly appointed. article 214 (2) of the ec treaty, which is curiously mentioned as the legal basis for the resolution, does not concern the appointment of a commissioner in the event of his resignation, but the vote of approval of the commission as a whole as a college. it is also curious that this resolution was taken on the basis of rule 106 (4), which concerns the election of the whole commission and not the replacement of a commissioner.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution approving the appointment of mr karel de gucht as a member of the european commission. i have, however, some doubts about the legal aspects of this decision. under article 215 (3) of the treaty establishing the european community, which lays down the rules in the event of a commissioner resigning, the council, acting by a qualified majority, appoints the replacement commissioner. in my view, the european parliament has no power in this particular case, and its rules of procedure, which in annex xvii, point 2, second paragraph, provide for a secret ballot, are not in accordance with the treaty. this last article of the rules of procedure is binding on the european parliament but not on the commissioner who is duly appointed. article 214 (2) of the ec treaty, which is curiously mentioned as the legal basis for the resolution, does not concern the appointment of a commissioner in the event of his resignation, but the vote of approval of the commission as a whole as a college. it is also curious that this resolution was taken on the basis of rule 106 (4), which concerns the election of the whole commission and not the replacement of a commissioner.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, naturally i would like to thank commissioner dimas for his presence, for his replies and for the attention he continues to give to all these disasters. we worked together a lot when president barroso asked me to prepare a report, which he quoted, on the creation of a european civil protection force. i presented this report on 9 may 2006. when i read it again, and i see all the disasters that have happened, i think to myself that it is still relevant. mrs tzavela, of course, it's not just greece. all countries are affected, and i would add that there are not only natural disasters, but also man-made disasters. i am thinking of the shipping disasters, the erika and many others, the industrial accidents like chernobyl. there are other natural disasters besides fires. i think about the tsunami. we can fear that one day a tsunami will strike the mediterranean, as there was one in the early 20th century, which totally destroyed the city of messina. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that the instruments we are using are not up to the task of dealing with these disasters, which will increase under the double effect of global warming and transport. that's why i think we need to be more ambitious. i thank the commission, commissioner dimas and all his teams in the directorate-general who are making the civil protection mechanism work. i think we need to go further. with the member countries that wish to do so, we can imagine closer cooperation. if we don't have 27 to make this civil protection force, let's start with 12 or 15. then you'll see that it will affect everyone. when i list the disasters, i can say that everyone is affected: the floods that hit germany in 2002, the major pandemics and also terrorism. that is why i would like the commission to take the initiative to go further, to propose to the member states to go further. our parliament, the committee on the environment, the subcommittee on security and defence will support you in these voluntary initiatives.
madam president, this summer corsica too was the victim of very serious fires, like sardinia, catalonia, greece, the canary islands and so many other parts of europe. for all the affected people, first of all, our group would like to ask that european solidarity be guaranteed through the implementation of the solidarity fund. what will the commission do about this? that is the first question i would like to ask the commissioner. on july 23rd, in corsica, the heat was exceptional: 44 degrees, very dry air, a very strong sirocco. in such a context, which will be more and more frequent due to global warming, local resources have been overwhelmed, whereas in previous years the weather was more lenient and corsica had been spared. the lesson for me is simple: when such weather conditions arise, conditions which we can anticipate and foresee, we must be able to count on the reinforcement of a european civil protection force, as was advocated in the barnier report, which would make it possible, in particular, to tackle the fledgling fires before they escalate, because after that it is too late. when a fire has entered the forest, it does not stop until the whole forest is burned. we must therefore go much further than the pilot project you have mentioned, commissioner. what does the commission intend to do to set up this civil protection force as soon as possible, which will really meet the major challenge facing all europeans in the field of nature protection, particularly in the fight against fires in the mediterranean area? is it normal that the 2010 budget does not provide for this force? we have tabled an amendment to that effect. we hope that the major groups, and in particular mr barnier's epp, will agree to help us to pass this amendment.
madam president, we called for a european civil protection mechanism in 2001, in the wake of the tragedy of 9/11. we then started a fund. then there was the barnier report, which stressed the need for solidarity. today, this solidarity is working, but it needs to be more effective so that we can move to a higher speed. two points need to be made. first, the responsiveness. all those who have been affected by these fires regret that the procedures are often too long and that implementation takes far too long, whereas when we are dealing with fires we have to act very quickly. we must have more flexibility in this implementation, because time is precious in this case. then there is prevention. prevention is not mentioned enough, because it is a matter of the principle of subsidiarity. it is said that it is for the member states to decide. but when these fires damage biodiversity, the environment, when they affect what is most precious to people, that is, their heritage, their property, their home, when unfortunately they take human lives, we have no right not to provide for this prevention. this is a criminal offence. we must stop this, and for that we also need financial means. it is therefore essential to have the best possible budgets so that we can be much more effective in this european civil protection mechanism. so let us make sure that the budget, our budget, really takes this into account. all this also requires a specific approach to our agricultural and forestry policies, and this is not discussed enough. prevention, responsiveness and resources must be used to ensure that southern europe is no longer a burning coal.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this summer the mediterranean forest was again on fire: in marseille, in south corsica, but also in italy, spain and, on a larger scale, in greece. over 400,000 hectares of forest and fields have been burned, causing considerable material damage, irreparable damage to biodiversity, and dramatic loss of human life. i am appalled by this report, which is repeated year after year, and aware of the multiplier effect of global warming on fires, and i call for a european awareness-raising for better coordination of efforts and a pooling of firefighting resources. i hope that a large-scale euro-mediterranean cooperation project to combat forest fires will be implemented within the framework of the union for the mediterranean. i welcome the existing initiatives, in particular the european forest fire information system, pilot project. i nevertheless call for a reform of the european union solidarity fund, so that it becomes an effective tool for responding to crises and a strengthening of the european protection force and the 'european aid' system devised by michel barnier in 2006 to intervene in the territory of the 27 member states as well as abroad. i believe that one of the keys to the problem of forest fires lies in the exchange of knowledge and good practice in prevention and i would like to point out the pioneering role played by forestry experts in my own department. i can of course provide europe with this example which may be useful.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased with what commissioner dimas has said on this subject, and particularly with his reference to the importance of aid beyond the borders of our continent. can we formally envisage, in the context of the union for the mediterranean project, in addition to the ecological protection of the mediterranean sea, this urgent aid in the event of fire and the development of forestry expertise on this subject, to be shared and developed with the non-european countries of the union for the mediterranean?
in writing. in the face of the dramatic fires which are once again ravaging southern europe, we must act to put an end to these intolerable events. first, by better organising the means of intervention: this is michel barnier's idea of a european civil protection force, capable of intervening in support of national forces. to contain a fire, we must intervene massively and quickly: european solidarity must indeed be more effective. but prevention is still essential: the forts must be maintained and scrubbed. in the south of france, 75% of the fort is private. it is therefore necessary to mobilise owners and encourage them to maintain their wood surfaces. this will be achieved in particular by the exploitation of the mediterranean fortress, which is too unprofitable economically: initiatives supported by the structural funds must encourage the regular development of biomass and its energy exploitation, the development of sustainable forestry and responsible co-tourism. i therefore ask the european commission to recognise the specific features of the mediterranean stronghold and to propose an action plan to protect it and to enhance its natural wealth. this would be the minimum to reduce the risk of fires in the long term and to preserve and restore the fragile ecosystems of southern europe.
i am very pleased to hear that a conservative and a liberal comrade agree with the commission, which makes it easier for me as a socialist. i hope, in any case, that the debate tonight will finally provide answers to the many concerns about the impact of this free trade agreement between the european union and korea, and in particular on european industry. you mentioned a consensus, but i would remind you, commissioner, that for a number of months now certain industrial sectors - including the car manufacturers and the workers' unions who support them - have been warning you of the possible dramatic consequences of this agreement. even today, the main questions remain unanswered. but perhaps you have chosen to sacrifice the european car industry to the detriment of services! why should korea be granted the duty drawback clause, which is an advantage never before granted, not even to developing countries such as the mediterranean countries? what is the logic of such unconstrained rules of origin, the impact of which is to be feared, not only for the automobile industry but also for the european textile industry? why allow such distortions of competition and, above all, set such a precedent? in view of these risks and others, which i cannot unfortunately describe here but which you know in detail - you have just mentioned them - the commission has proposed a last resort, the inclusion of a safeguard clause. but you know, commissioner, that this is not automatic and that it will be very difficult to implement and impossible to activate for five years. i will give just one example to illustrate our fears. if the free trade agreement allows korea to export 100,000 more vehicles to europe - it already exports 600,000 a year - 6,000 jobs will be lost. on the other hand, europe is terribly limited, with each manufacturer being allowed to export only 1 000 vehicles to korea, for a total european quota of 6 000 vehicles. how do you explain europe's commitment to such an agreement at a time of crisis, which is particularly affecting workers in the automobile sector? do you intend to renegotiate the controversial points i have just mentioned? this is at least the demand made by a number of states and industrial sectors that i have just mentioned. finally, commissioner, are you committed to greater transparency and to involving us as parliamentarians more closely? we had, together with the commission, created the conditions for a negative image of the polish plumber, not for a negative image of the korean coachbuilder.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to say that the debate did not, in a sense, at all surprise me, because the concerns that colleagues have raised have indeed been raised over the months. i want to pay tribute to david martin, just to begin with, for the work that he has done in the committee. it is very important that i recognise how much the committee on international trade has worked with me over the months that have proceeded it, and of course i am very well aware that colleagues have not had the benefit of seeing the detail of the agreement so far. so i will try and address the concerns. but, more importantly, we will make sure that we give you more and more detail, because it is important that you look at the facts rather than the assertions that will have been made. let me just make some general points about the approach on this deal first. this deal was put in play in order to achieve the best for european industry – including, i would say to colleagues from the ukip, british industry. it is absolutely in the interests of europe, in my view, to move forward with this deal – otherwise i would not be standing here suggesting that we move forward in the way that i have. now, in doing so, there was a clear modus operandi, a clear approach that the commission took which, as has been said, was supported by parliament, by the commission and by the council, and that is indeed the way we have gone forward. my colleague mr arif will not mind, i think, if i say that to suggest that i would sacrifice any industry, i find alarming or perhaps a little depressing, because that is certainly not the approach that i would take. do i think that if you want a serious trade deal you have to recognise that actually it is a deal where both sides benefit? yes, i do. if you want to have trade agreements, if we do believe – which i think we do – that trade is the engine that will take us out of recession, then it means you have serious, tough negotiations with industries and with countries that we care about having a deal with. otherwise we can just do deals all day long with countries we do not much care about, and we can open markets because we are not really interested. korea is a serious market. it provides real opportunities for chemicals, pharmaceuticals, other industries. we need to recognise the value and importance of doing this if we want serious trade agreements. we are, in fact, an economic superpower. i could not disagree more with my colleagues from the united kingdom when they talk about switzerland and try and equate that, somehow, with the relationship that we are trying to form in europe with korea – or maybe i just missed the point. this is about serious negotiations to get a serious outcome, and, as the details of this unfold, i hope that colleagues will look at it in the spirit that we have tried to set it up. the car industry gave us at the beginning a list of things that they wished us to achieve. they were genuinely very concerned to keep the market in korea open, and we have achieved all that they asked at the beginning. the textile industry: i am confident that there is little to worry about. the textile industry safeguards that we have will indeed make sure that we retain european jobs. i am not interested in closing down jobs or industries in europe at all, and this deal does not do that. and those of you who think that you have evidence to prove it, i ask you to supply it to me, because the rhetoric is one thing, the reality is a different thing, and we really have got to get beyond the rhetoric and into the reality of what this deal provides. indeed, i would argue that what we have got before us is very important for all the industrial sectors. the question about duty drawback is for me a very simple one. duty drawback is designed so that our response to it will prevent a particular problem. the question is, is it the only way of solving a problem? if there are other ways that equally solve the problem but in fact invite us to get a better trade agreement, then i will explore them. but i still want to solve the same problem, and i believe the mechanisms we have in place in this agreement do precisely that. it is not some thing that we hold up as being for ever enshrined as the only way of achieving what we want to achieve – to prevent, effectively, imports via the backdoor – and i believe we have resolved the problem in a different way. so i am not going to make apologies – politically, economically or in any other way – to parliament for having gone out and invested in negotiating this important trade deal. i make no apology for that, and i make no apology for putting forward to this parliament what i believe is a serious, 21st-century free trade agreement of enormous benefit across the economy of the european union. i especially make no apology for doing it at a time of economic crisis, because, if ever there was a time when my responsibility was to provide as much support for the businesses and the workers of europe, i believe that time is now, and that is what this deal does. i do urge colleagues, as i said earlier on, to look at the reality of the deal. you will be lobbied – i have been lobbied – but actually, when you look at what we have achieved, i believe it is a very concrete result that will hugely benefit the economy of europe. that, in the end, is what we set out to do, and that, in the end, is what we have achieved.
in writing. the european union-south korea free trade agreement (fta), which is due to be concluded by mid-october, is causing many concerns among european industries. the european commissioner for external trade considers this agreement to be the most ambitious ever negotiated by the eu, but car manufacturers in particular see it as highly unbalanced. the latter, because of the tariff preferences granted by the european commission, fear a massive influx of korean vehicles onto the european market. it is undeniable that the maintenance of certain customs clauses such as the duty drawback would be of an unenforceable nature and create a distortion of competition which would be highly detrimental to the european automobile industry. the eu's growth does not seem to have been offset by a reduction in the non-tariff barriers imposed by the korean authorities (import quotas on european petrol-engined vehicles). the commission must therefore, as of today, revise the terms of this agreement in order to restore the conditions for fair and fair competition and to ensure the maintenance of our industry and our jobs in europe.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while i have the pleasure of putting this oral question to you today on behalf of the committee on development, i regret that i do not have the pleasure of presenting the resolution on the same subject, which was voted unanimously by the committee on development. my colleagues on the committee on development and i have worked very hard to get it voted on and discussed in plenary before the g20 summit in pittsburgh. however, apart from my group, the greens/efa, and the gue, no other political group has supported our request to put this resolution on the agenda, which is essential if the european parliament is to play an increasing role in defining the external policy of the european union and become a real force for proposals. ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of voting on this resolution, which made the european parliament's requests and proposals to the members of the g20, and more particularly to those of our member states who are members of the g20, and to the european commission, at the october plenary, that is, after the pittsburgh summit? not only does this devalue the work done, but we cannot be satisfied with this role of commenting on current events. that's not our job. let us leave that to those who do it professionally: the journalists. the developing world needs us now more than ever. the global economic and financial crisis has not spared our fellow citizens, but it has affected the people of developing countries much more deeply. however, financial institutions did not make them the main beneficiaries of emergency loans, as very few of them met the conditions. african countries have thus benefited from only 1.6% of the loans granted by the imf since the last g20 meeting in london and the increase in the imf's resources. the rest went to the developed countries, especially those in europe. the maintenance of the european economic system was essential, but it must not make us forget the misery that rages at our borders. a misery amplified by a crisis for which we bear the heavy responsibility. official development aid must be increased urgently. already most member states have not met the conditions required by the oecd since 1970, and we are facing new emergencies and we have no new funds. so we need to find new sources of funding, including reforming the current system. the committee on development calls on you to take action to eradicate the abuse of tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flows from developing countries. a norwegian report in june, with verified figures, said that the illicit flows from developing countries are ten times larger than our development aid. that's the extent of the stakes. a new binding financial agreement should be put in place which would force transnational companies to declare the profits they make and the taxes they pay, country by country, in order to ensure transparency on what they pay in each of the countries where they operate. in addition, a radical reform of the system must be implemented, including the establishment of new democratic and transparent regulations for international trade and financial systems. the responsibilities are heavy, the stakes are high, the task is difficult, but more than ever the european union must take the lead in these reforms.
president of the committee on budgets. - mr president, allow me first of all to congratulate mr šemeta on the confirmation yesterday of his appointment as commissioner for the budget. we are convinced that we will have the same quality of relations with him as we had with his predecessor and we wish him a political career as brilliant as that of mrs grybauskaite. mr president, we are going through a period of global crisis, of preparations for major diplomatic meetings and of institutional uncertainty within the union itself. in such a period the committee on budgets will seek to be cooperative. as our rapporteur has said, we regret the cuts made by the council in the commission's proposals, but at the same time we understand that the state of the public finances of the member states does not allow them to go much further this year. for the 2010 budget, as has been said, we have an obligation to deliver results: that is to complete the financing of the 2010 tranche of the recovery plan. we know that redeployments will be necessary, but these redeployments cannot relate to other political priorities previously decided jointly by parliament and the council. beyond 2010, parliament will want to work together with the commission, the council, the swedish presidency and the future spanish presidency on three major issues for the future. firstly, if, of course, things turn out as we wish in ireland, the procedure, timetable and working methods that will be called for in the application of the lisbon treaty will be put in place. secondly, the mid-term review of the financial perspective. between the joint decision on the multiannual financial framework in may 2006 and today, there has been the financial crisis, the very high tensions on the price of energy, raw materials and even food, and the climate change negotiations. there was also - and i would add, unfortunately - the failure of the lisbon strategy, which is now obvious. we therefore need a thorough review of our multiannual guidelines. this will be the first project of the new executive commission. finally, the third and final issue is the reform of the resources which feed the european budget. we knew this before the crisis: no member state wants to pay for europe's expenses any more. since the crisis, no member state can pay for these expenses. our financial contribution to economic recovery will be just 0.03% of the union's gdp. we are aware of the extreme difficulty of the subject, but the european parliament has been working on it for four years with the national parliaments and it intends to be able to propose some lines of work to launch the debate as early as next year.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the last time we had a discussion after a tragedy in the mediterranean was on 1 april. you will recall that several hundred migrants died off the libyan coast. we asked for an investigation. we have had, to date, no information regarding the circumstances of this tragedy. since mid-august, as you know, 73 africans have been found dead off the coast of lampedusa. on 25 august, 57 eritrean migrants were finally rescued after a long time in maltese waters. on 31 august, 75 somalis were deported back to libya. the external borders of the european union have indeed become murderous. that is the title of a report to be published by the ngo migreurop, which i would like to invite you all to obtain and read carefully. in the face of this situation, mr barrot, you remember the essential things. you mention the right to asylum, the right to international protection. you should also recall the right of every person to leave any country, the obligation of everyone to rescue every person. it's the international law of the sea. these situations are increasing, and they are also increasingly occurring at the border between turkey and greece. that is why i do not believe, mr barrot, that the strengthening of frontex's resources will be the answer to this situation. i believe that the european union is now facing its own project. the european union was born out of the refusal to deny the dignity of the other, and it must be faithful to that.
mr president, this gives me the opportunity to make two small points which i believe point to the hypocrisy - as a colleague said earlier - of our policy. the first thing is the dublin agreements. commissioner, you are well aware of the situation in calais; you know that many people in calais could very well apply for and obtain political refugee status. why don't they? because they have the assurance, because of the dublin agreements, that they will be sent to countries where they do not want to go, and sometimes with good reason. they don't want to go to greece, where they have almost zero chance of being granted refugee status. today, the dublin agreements are an instrument that is hostile to the protection of those who need it most and that organizes inequality between member states. so let us stop talking about solidarity when we are putting in place instruments which organise inequality between states. the second thing is the readmission agreements. i understand that we want to negotiate such agreements with turkey and libya, that is to say, we are hoping to have a large number of countries that would be our neighbours and large detention camps for migration flows. this is unacceptable for practical reasons, for moral reasons and for political reasons, and you know that, mr barrot!
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a recurring discourse that the member states recognize the need to establish common policies for the management of immigration at european level and policies for the social integration of immigrants. yet we see it every day, the reality is far from it. for example, in the context of budgetary discussions, the fund for the integration of migrants is deprived of its means of action. as for the member states, many of them continue to legislate and regulate unilaterally and restrictively on mobility to and within their territory, restricting access to their labour market, social system, education system and making family reunification difficult. in the same vein, the european policy of combating illegal immigration and controlling external borders is ultimately tantamount to imposing border controls on our neighbours, in defiance of human rights. we saw it between italy and libya. this trend towards outsourcing is, in effect, an excuse for europe as a whole to avoid its responsibilities. this is not acceptable. the additional resources given to frontex can never replace the necessary solidarity which must unite the member states to act together in welcoming people in need of international protection, as well as in welcoming the foreign labour force needed to meet the democratic challenges of tomorrow. what arrangements do you envisage for genuine solidarity and for genuine responses to the ills of migrants?
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my good german colleague and friend reimer böge calling on the european parliament to approve the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to the tune of some eur 109 million in commitment and payment appropriations in 2009 to help france, which was facing a disaster caused by the storm klaus, which in january 2009 hit 31 departments in the south-west of the country, causing extensive damage estimated at a total of some eur 4 billion. i take this opportunity to congratulate alain lamassoure, chairman of the committee on budgets of our parliament, on the speed with which this matter was dealt with in connection with the european commission.
in writing. i welcome the intervention of the european union solidarity fund, of which france will be a beneficiary, to respond to the damage caused by the storm of january 2009, which hit the european and french forestry sectors hard. the funds are expected to be available in october 2009, nine months after the storm. this is faster than the average time taken by the fund to intervene, which is about one year between the time of the disaster and the disbursement of aid. while this progress is welcome, it is useful to continue to call for the fund to be made available more quickly. the current procedure for managing the solidarity fund makes this difficult. nevertheless, a revised proposal for a regulation was tabled by the european commission and supported by parliament, by a large majority, in may 2006. i regret that the council has not yet dealt with the matter and i now encourage it to consider, as soon as possible, the possibility of a more rapid management of the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my good german colleague and friend reimer böge calling on the european parliament to approve the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide eur 4.1 million in commitment and payment appropriations to support the spanish and portuguese textile sector (catalonia and norte-centro regions), to provide assistance to workers affected by the consequences of the significant changes in the structure of world trade and to help reintegrate them into the labour market. i share the view of my colleagues on speeding up the mobilisation of this fund and assessing its complementarity with other existing instruments such as the social fund.
in writing. while i agree with the basic principle, i believe that the gravity of the crisis calls for measures of a completely different scale, in particular to enable smes to access credit and to provide credit for employment, territorial development and human capacity development.
in writing. i consider it unacceptable to mix in the same vote the appropriations for the promotion of vaccination against bluetongue and those of europol and eurojust. i am in favour of the appropriations for the eradication of bluetongue, but against the appropriations for europol and eurojust.
in writing. i am pleased today to see the adoption of the report by our colleague, mr jutta haug, to which i have given my full support. with this vote we are allowing the european union solidarity fund to be mobilised for the second time this year. after having helped romania, the european union is now showing its solidarity with the french people who suffered the full effects of the devastating storm klaus in january 2009, which was described as a 'major natural disaster' and, as such, could fall within the main scope of this fund. in all, over 120 million copies have been made available. as you know, this aid is very much needed in the south-western departments of my country, which have suffered considerable damage. i thank my colleagues for the positive vote they gave to this report. it is now, of course, necessary to ensure that the french government equitably involves local authorities in the process and that they are not harmed in the use of this money. it would be unacceptable if only the private sector benefited.
in writing. the report on draft amending budget no 8/2009 of the european union for the financial year 2009 contains contradictory points. it covers both the strengthening of the means of eradicating bluetongue, the continuation of a research programme on the operation of a nuclear reactor in the netherlands, the europol and eurojust programmes and olaf. in voting against this draft report, i did not, of course, want to take a position against measures which are indispensable for sheep farmers. i wanted to take a stand against the ever-increasing use of nuclear energy. i wanted above all to reaffirm my commitment to building a fortress europe, secure, ineffective in ensuring the security of our fellow citizens, through the budgets of europol and eurojust. we must put a stop to these policies which, in the name of fighting insecurity and terrorism, are increasingly undermining the freedoms and fundamental rights of our fellow citizens, and we must review and redefine the mandates of the various community agencies and bodies involved in these policies.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, presidents of the european institutions, my dear mr buzek, my group fully endorses your programme for parliament and the conduct of parliament over the next five years. if the european parliament has a role to play, a mission to fulfil, in the next five years, it is to reconcile the citizens with europe. and what better asset to this mission than to have as president a man who is a symbol of a united europe, such as you, mr buzek. that is why i should like to say how proud i am that it was my group, the epp, that persuaded the very large majority of this parliament to give you their confidence. the europe we have today, reunited, is not one of intolerance and exclusion but of openness and respect for the opinions and origins of others. i am convinced that this concept of life in common brings us all together in this chamber. what i would like is for the european parliament, under your leadership, to share these values with our fellow citizens. i also support the desire you have expressed, mr president, to meet this challenge and i hope that we will make a special effort to reach the younger generations. my group is prepared to help you without any reservations. mr president, as you have said, this parliament has acquired increasing powers and authority in recent years. the prospect of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty will dramatically amplify this trend. this is one of the reasons why the epp calls for its implementation as soon as possible. we must prepare ourselves technically, of course, in order to work effectively with the council and in close partnership with the commission, but we must also prepare ourselves politically. our priority objective is clear: that parliament should be more in tune with the 500 million citizens it represents. to do this, it must continue to modernise its working methods, for example in the organisation of our debates - you have alluded to this. in this respect, i support your proposal for a lively debate with the president of the commission on topical and urgent subjects. ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to explain to europeans how the european union works. far from the traditional 'opposition/majority' model to which we are accustomed in our member states, we are working here, i stress, in the search for consensus, beyond the specific convictions of our political families. i think that is a modern conception of political action. i am convinced that our fellow citizens can approve of this approach, but on one condition: that we take the trouble to explain better to them the challenges facing europe. this is the task to which, mr president, i encourage you and for which you will receive the full support of my group.
mr president, as an unregistered member of parliament, i am speaking, of course, on my own behalf, but also on behalf of some of my colleagues, not my dutch colleagues from the pvv, but my colleagues from the national front, the bulgarian attack party, the austrian fpö, the british national party, the hungarian jobbik party and the flemish vlaams belang. i would like to say, mr president, that i do not doubt for a moment the sincerity of the proposals you have made. but i must say that i doubt whether they are realistic. you mentioned the problem of the economic crisis first. it is a fact that millions of europeans are seeing their wealth and their jobs threatened by the perverse effects of a globalisation which is putting them, for the benefit of a few, at the mercy of unfair competition from countries where workers are exploited in a cynical manner, and the greed of stateless financial interests. the union, unfortunately, has not protected europeans from this situation. on the contrary, it has hurried them there. secondly, perhaps i should like to call, from my modest position, but expressing the political forces which mr schulz was pleased to acknowledge as threatening to the traditional organizations - and i thank him for that - i would like to call on our assembly, and on you, mr president, for more modesty, for a certain self-limitation in our powers. i am deeply convinced, as a european and as a christian, that a number of the values we share are universal values. i am even more comfortable in saying forcefully that we are not called upon to give the world principles and laws, especially since there are organizations like the united nations for this, especially since there is much to be done in europe itself, where against the right to life we organize the elimination of our own children, where against freedom of expression we impose a moral, media, political and judicial dictatorship of what is called 'politically correct'. political groups which, like ours, express the sufferings and hopes of millions of europeans are discriminated against, persecuted and sometimes even dissolved, as was the case with the vlaams blok in belgium, an absolute scandal which has not aroused the slightest protest in this house. if this had happened in africa or latin america, we would have heard, no doubt, a different bell. the non-attached members we are do not have the same rights as the others, that is obvious, and they still do not have, as we told you yesterday, representatives in the conference of presidents. finally, millions of europeans are deprived, through the effect of voting systems, of the possibility of being represented in the legislative bodies of their country, which are supposed to represent the electorate in its diversity. in conclusion, i would like to express the wish that we should always remember, in all our actions, that europe is the place in the history of mankind which has invented the freedom of nations, which is not found anywhere else, their equal dignity, respect for their internal competences and the principle of non-interference, which means that everyone is master in his own home and on his own territory. it is one of the great contributions of european civilization to the heritage of mankind.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last june the europeans confirmed their support for the epp party, making our group the leading force in this parliament for the third time in a row. by voting, our citizens have made clear choices: the choice of a stable and strong europe in a time of crisis and uncertainty; the choice of a social market economy with ethical rules; and the choice of a responsible climate and energy policy. since the epp was the only party to propose a candidate for the presidency of the commission several months before the elections, the europeans themselves have therefore implicitly approved the choice of josé manuel barroso, putting us in the lead of the votes. i am proud that the epp has made this choice and, why not say it, i am proud that it has taken this risk. everyone knows the epp's priorities: they are the ones that inspired the fathers of europe and continue to inspire the majority of governments in europe today. the current president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, shares and defends most of these guidelines. ladies and gentlemen, the epp supports josé manuel barroso because he has proved himself. it has proved its worth on the energy-climate package and has enabled europe to become the world leader in the fight against global warming. it will be the reference point for the copenhagen conference. he has proven himself in the moralization of financial systems, allowing europe to learn, for the first time, the lessons of a financial crisis that nobody, and i say nobody, had anticipated. it is europe and the barroso commission which are showing the g20 the way forward for our american and asian partners. in the past, europe has been called a political dwarf. how can we not be happy that on the two issues of major concern to europeans crisis and climate europe is finally at the forefront? i would add that josé manuel barroso is the first candidate for the presidency of the commission to have so much involved our parliament in its work and in the definition of the guidelines. it is the first to propose a genuine partnership between these two institutions through a whole series of concrete measures. i believe that this is an important step towards european parliamentarism, and we parliamentarians must seize this opportunity. that is why my group wants president barroso to form a new commission as soon as possible and get to work. of course, the president of the commission cannot be a man of one party. of course, he has to deal with a college of commissioners from several political families. we welcome this, because europe can only be built in a spirit of openness and consensus-building. that said, mr president, madam president-in-office, i would like to make an appeal to you. once the president of the commission had been elected, you had to start work on the composition of the rest of the college without delay, whatever the treaty in force. as for you, mr barroso, if, as i hope, a majority of members will support you tomorrow, it will not be a blank cheque. you know that, and it's my duty to tell you that here. because the epp shares most of your convictions, there is also a responsibility to ensure that in the next five years your commission's action is in line with our expectations and those of the europeans. we trust you, but do not doubt that we will also exercise our legislative duty in the framework of a partnership that you propose. ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, thank you for your attention. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must confess that i am hallucinating. first, we are told: "everything has changed, so i stay!". the reason barroso has to stay is because everything changes, and he is stability in a changing world. i guess so. then i hear mr daul. i was campaigning in france. in france, we were told during the election campaign that the banks were sarkozy, the climate was sarkozy, change in europe was sarkozy. i hear daul today: the climate is barroso, the thing is barroso. you'll get your ass kicked at the élysée, my friend! you'll get your ass kicked! it's still incredible, this story! yeah, yeah, i know, may '68, it bothers you, every time you come back with that old story. i'll explain it to you once if you want to know. i'm just saying this place here is a place where you can say anything. josé manuel obama: yes, he can! he can do everything now, everything he has not been able to do for five years, you will see what you will see, so now, gentlemen heads of government, ladies heads of government, madame la suédoise, attention, now it is over with the little barroso who listens to you. you will have to listen to him, he will impose a new integrated policy on you, no coordination, you will have to follow him... we know you! five years, here, not a word about "i was wrong", as i was also dany cohn-bendit, as others... because you talk about european values, you talk about european ethics, but the problem is this, mr barroso. if you really want to change, you have to explain something to the parliamentarians, to the citizens: the response to the financial and economic crisis must be at the same time a response to the ecological crisis, and if you want to respond to these crises, you have to transform - reform is not enough - transform europe, that is to say in an ecological and social way. we need to question our production systems. banks: why have they gone crazy? because we have a system that makes them completely crazy. why would you do that? for the simple reason that it's always more, more, faster. is the majority of this parliament today prepared to question the ever-increasing, ever-increasing, ever-faster? this is the basis of the crisis, and when we talk about sustainable development, it's not just a few measurements, it's trying to explain and understand that, if there are things where we need growth, that is, selective growth, renewable energy, etc., there are a lot of things that need to be curbed. you have to measure it, and then i hallucinate even more. you mentioned the lisbon process. you mentioned research. mr barroso, explain to me! for five years you have explained to us - four years: in the last year after the crisis, you were more cautious - you have explained to us that the basis of economic and ecological effectiveness was deregulation: deregulation. but i do remember your speeches, i do remember your speeches. and then, with the seizures, all of a sudden, you realized it didn't work that way. with the crises, and it is to your credit, we never said that you were a man of no honour, we simply said that you, mr barroso, seeing the way you have run this commission, we do not trust you. you are a european, but at the same time you are in an ideology which is precisely the ideology that was the reason for the crisis, not the answer to the crisis. so, guy verhofstadt, this is big now. we have said throughout the campaign 'i'll finish this', and mr barroso thanked us for not voting in july. now everyone is thanking us that we didn't vote in july, because at least he was able to present his programme. if it had been for mr daul, if it had been for mr barroso, we would have voted without a programme in july and the marquise would have done very well! so at least tell us thank you for giving us the chance to present your program. - thank you. second, but this is big, you say, "why delay any longer?" for the simple reason, and this has never happened before, that the irish people are going to vote in three weeks' time, and if they vote 'yes', as i believe, as is to be expected, to the lisbon treaty, there is another condition for this commission. you tell us, "we absolutely must, because we have an economic crisis, you will see what you will see". the commission will be able to make a decision on the budget in the next two months. he will not have time to deal with lisbon, he will not have time to deal with copenhagen, because he will have to negotiate with sarkozy. is the internal market for mr barnier? if it is for mr barnier, what will he give the poles, to whom he has promised a large commission? what's he gonna give the germans? what's he gonna give the english? because the commission is a bargaining chip! and the bargaining, it'll keep him busy, but while he's busy bargaining, the others will be bargaining in copenhagen. that's the problem, that's the reality. so i will end by saying to you, mr barroso, that you are a man of honour, it is true, but you should know one thing: the european greens do not trust you and will vote against your appointment, because we believe that europe needs someone better, someone more than you, mr barroso! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr. presidential candidate, the institutions do not allow the left to put forward a candidate. we denounce this situation of a single candidate and the political agreements between right-wing and social democratic governments which make it possible. this situation denies the existence of a broad european opinion that is totally opposed to the liberal model of european construction that you embody. this model is the one that is plunging the european ideal, without you saying a word, into an abyss of abstentions hostile to the european elections, especially, and this is remarkable, in the new member states. this is the model which has turned the dream of a protective europe into a machine for destroying our social rights, our national industries, and for pitting people against each other in order to earn a living. more and more people are saying: "europe is not going to bring any good". you have not seen the financial disaster and the ecological catastrophe coming, despite all the warnings, because they have not failed. you have facilitated it, you and the others, with this dictatorship of free and undistorted competition, which strangles our societies, destroys their public spirit and our public services. and now you're changing the words so you don't change the facts. but your program is summed up in a sentence - i don't know if the french pun is translatable - which says: "from now on, it will be as before". it is a great change that europe needs to turn the page on an era, an archaic and past time, that of financial capitalism and productivism. so the change could start with you refusing to invest. that is why our delegation refuses to give you its votes.
mr president, mr barroso, there are members in this house, including myself, who will not trust you in the vote tomorrow. i want to say here the reasons for this choice, and also our concerns, because i think they deserve to be heard. we think that the commission is rather less strong today than it was five years ago. we think that too often it has deliberately chosen to hide behind the council, so as not to be a nuisance to some. we also believe that it has failed to use the power conferred on it by the treaties, the right of initiative which, in times of crisis, should be a real duty of initiative. we believe, finally, that the commission is no longer the place where the general european interest is formed, so that it can be heard by all, and that all this is not good for europe. this europe needs a vision, it needs the capacity to think, to bring a new model of development, it needs new answers in economic matters: how to move towards greater industrial, budgetary, economic and social integration; how to create a new social and economic order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order, how to create a new social order. how to prioritise the long term over the short term; how to ensure, for example, that banks are there first to support businesses, households and european investment in regulatory matters; how to set up a european regulator able to discuss social issues on an equal footing with its us counterpart; how to implement an employment pact; how to move towards more upward monetary harmonisation; how to play and show solidarity; how can we make a success of a new enlargement of the euro area tomorrow, also in terms of sustainable development? how to make this transition a success in europe, but also in developing countries. these are some of the questions that we have before us, mr barroso. that is why i believe we need a commission which can reconnect with the general european interest and with the vision, simply to give the european idea a new meaning. it is from this aura that we will judge your future action. thank you for listening to me.
mr president, mr barroso, i have a problem which means that i will not be voting for you tomorrow, but you know that, my group has explained that well. it's a political issue. you are not proposing a social and ecological conversion of europe. i think that is what we should do today. however, as mr daul so elegantly says, the right wing won the elections, so you are right wing. things are clear. i would like to be able to have some consideration for the president of the commission, but i have a problem with that consideration: when i see you, i always think - and i assure you that this is true - of your responsibility in the secret cia flights. from 2002 to 2006, 728 people were transferred to guantánamo through portuguese territory. you were a minister from 2002 to 2004. i cannot therefore believe you, mr barroso, when you make statements about europe as a champion of human rights. i expect from you - i hope from you, because i want to see you as president of the commission tomorrow - not your memories, in i do not know how many years, but i expect you to recognise your responsibilities in this serious act, which is a shadow on european values.
madam president, mr barroso, there are several elements, several reasons, for our confidence, for our vote tomorrow, which will be very clear. first, there is the element of democratic consistency: compared with the choice of the 27 heads of state or government, who unanimously chose you; compared to what we said during the election campaign - it's not that far - and the citizens' vote. we are not going to apologize for winning the elections, even though we know - we know very well, i say to our colleagues - that we will have to rally around you a majority of ideas that are broader than the european people's party alone. secondly, there is democratic consistency in the exercise you have been conducting for several weeks in the demanding, sincere, uncompromising dialogue with parliament, and we are here to witness this. there is a second reason, which is a conviction: the very strong conviction that there is no strong policy in europe if the institutions are weak. we need strong institutions. that is why we hope for the ratification of the lisbon treaty, which is a toolbox for making the institutions work. we need a strong commission that is ready to deal with the crisis as soon as possible. the third reason is a trust agreement we signed with you. in the face of this economic, financial and food crisis - let us not forget the billion people who are starving in the world - and the most serious and deep ecological crisis - we need the commission's combativeness. we need you to draw, and we with you, all the lessons from this crisis, in terms of governance, regulation, innovation or new policies - i am thinking of the idea of a european savings fund to support small and medium-sized enterprises in strategic sectors - and in relation to the deeper crisis, the ecological crisis, with a new model of economic and social growth, green growth, as you yourself have said. that is why, mr president, we are ready to sign the confidence pact with you tomorrow.
madam president, mr president-elect, i should like to say right away that you have not convinced the french socialists for five years, and you are failing to convince them with a project in which you are as generous in your words as you are general in your proposals. how can we say 'vote for me if you want a europe united in its diversity' when it is precisely because we want this europe that we advocated waiting for the irish vote before we decide on your candidacy? with the support of the member states, you preferred to be nominated with a head start and less risk in terms of the number of votes required. you thought that your appearance before parliament would be a mere formality, but it is not, and it is only a beginning, because your answer does not live up to the expectations of the citizens who are suffering from the crisis and have shown their displeasure with our institutions by a low turnout. you say that the crisis would have changed you and you are the great helmsman of a europe of solidarity, but you have not been able to guide the member states towards a genuinely european recovery plan, and we are still waiting for the concrete and binding measures needed for financial regulation. you claim to have given us guarantees on social matters, but you only vote for a new regulation and not for a revision of the directive on the posting of workers, and you have not made a firm and clear commitment to a directive protecting public services. you're disrespecting the memory of the members. we have not forgotten that during these five years social issues have never been at the heart of the proposed solutions, and it is only now that you would accept a social impact study for each european legislation? in the context of an unprecedented crisis, which is killing hundreds of thousands of jobs, everything must be done to avoid 25 million unemployed or working poor europeans by 2010. we need a strong industrial policy to do this. citizens need exemplary solidarity to counter the crisis. they do not find that impulse today in your words or in your stated ambition for europe. the philosopher walter benjamin said that to continue as before is the catastrophe. you have a long way to go before you can get to the socialists and the social democrats. we will refuse to vote for you out of political consistency and respect for our constituents.
madam president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i have read the guidelines of your programme and i welcome its ambition in each of the major policies, such as economic policy, with the maintenance and creation of activities, the recovery plan, social cohesion, environmental policy, and particularly sustainable development, projects for our youth, the strengthening of european defence, the maintenance of a strong and sustained agricultural policy. i welcome your ambition for a europe that we want to be conquering, united and protective. i am, however, wondering about the financial capacity of the european union in relation to all your projects. the union must have the financial means to achieve its ambitions. some of my colleagues have already pointed this out. i think it is essential, mr barroso, that you commit yourself to encouraging the member states to increase their contributions to the community budget substantially, starting in 2014. the crisis is certainly putting pressure on member states' budgets at the moment. we must, however, anticipate the post-crisis period and work now towards a community budget that meets the needs of european action. i know you are aware of this need, you have addressed it in your programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, mr president, as a member of the french delegation of the epp and representative of the new centre, the french political party that succeeded the udf, i wanted to address you directly today. first of all, i would like to remind you of the support of the president of the republic and the french government and to congratulate you on the way in which you have been able to contribute to the success of the french presidency. michel barnier and all my colleagues in the french presidential majority now expect that the commission will take up and share our mission of building a political europe capable of having a say in the major issues of the world of tomorrow. in our view, mr president, two pitfalls must be avoided in order to build this political europe. first, to make competition an absolute and unassailable dogma. yes, europe needs an industrial policy, an agricultural policy, an energy policy or an energy policy in favour of new technologies as much as it needs a competition policy. the second obstacle is to avoid turning this commission into a mere general secretariat of the council. we need a commission that is strong, that proposes, that innovates and that is the driving force behind this european construction. so, despite the reluctance of my own political party in france, i am ready today to support your action and to accompany you in this voluntary approach which you seem to want to take, particularly in terms of sustainable development or the fight against global warming. but in order to ensure that my vote, and that of several members who have some questions today, is as informed as possible, i would like you to make two strong commitments here. firstly, to put in place a genuine pro-european policy for our industries, our territories and everything that shapes a european identity. secondly, to make every effort to ensure that the european model is the one which best reconciles the market economy with the need for solidarity between member states, regions and peoples. mr president, today's young people need a europe that accompanies them in globalisation and that embodies new hope, and as the son of the french members of the european parliament, i am deeply convinced that they want a europe that both protects them and offers them new ambitions. we have a requirement for a future to be built together. i'm counting on you as much as you can count on me.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? it is a great pleasure for me to be here today representing the swedish presidency. the presidency and the commission will jointly represent the eu at the g20 summit in pittsburgh on 24 and 25 september. we will hold an informal european council in brussels tomorrow to prepare the eu's common position. as you all know, the global financial crisis has necessitated unprecedented global action: first, rapid and strong fiscal and monetary policy measures to support the financial sector and the real economy. secondly, coordination of global action and the development of the g20's role as a forum for coordination, particularly of measures relating to the regulation of financial markets. the fiscal and monetary measures that could be taken quickly were absolutely necessary to get us through the worst of the crisis. the overall support to the eu economy this year and next is estimated at 5% of gdp. central banks have responded to the crisis by keeping interest rates near zero. today we are cautiously optimistic that the worst of the acute financial sector problems is behind us, but the economic situation is still unstable and the risk of a relapse is high. we are very much aware that rising unemployment will be a very dominant issue going forward. the situation is still uncertain, but it could have been much worse. international coordination and cooperation will be crucial to securing a broad recovery and setting the tone for a return to long-term, sustainable growth on a stable basis. the g20 has played and will play a central role in this. the g20 will also work with the international financial institutions, the imf and the world bank, to ensure that they have sufficient resources and a well-functioning internal organisation to support economic growth and safeguard financial stability worldwide. the g20 process has produced the following important results: firstly, we have a common analysis of the problems facing our economies. this may not sound like much progress, but a common view of the financial sector and the real economic problems behind the crisis is a prerequisite for effective countermeasures. secondly, we have made real progress with a series of concrete measures which we agreed in london at the summit this spring. this is the case, for example, with a comprehensive stimulus package for our economies and with increased cooperation on the supervision and regulation of financial markets. we have also ensured that the international monetary fund has sufficient resources to meet a demand for loans. we have also committed ourselves to improving the ability of international financial institutions to monitor the global macroeconomic situation in order to be able to give early warning of similar problems. much remains to be done, but we have made clear progress, driven through coordinated international commitments. i believe that we in the eu, together with the rest of the g20, have made great progress on a number of key issues which are crucial to be able to provide a strategic response to the economic and financial crisis. our coordinated eu strategy means that europe leads rather than follows the debate. it is our solutions that are taken into account when global solutions are being developed. that is why the presidency is inviting the heads of state and government to dinner tomorrow evening. the aim is to build on the successful work of the informal ecofin lunch and the g20 finance ministers meeting in london so that we come well prepared to pittsburgh. i expect that tomorrow's meeting and the summit in pittsburgh will continue to lead to progress on the overall issues i have mentioned, but also in some additional areas. one issue on which several european finance ministers have commented in strong terms is the role of bonus schemes in financial stability. there is a consensus among eu finance ministers that we should be leading the way in demanding effective global standards to ensure that bonus schemes do not have destabilising effects and that bonus payments are in reasonable proportion to performance. this is an important part of the overall effort to ensure greater transparency and better supervision in the financial sector and is crucial to ensuring future stability. the financial stability board has been asked to report to the pittsburgh meeting on its work on developing principles for bonus schemes. i hope that this report will contain concrete and practicable strategies to ensure that financial institutions put in place sound and responsible remuneration and bonus structures. in addition, i hope we can agree to continue to provide the necessary stimulus to our economies for as long as it is needed, but it is also important that we commit to discontinuing the measures when they are no longer needed so that we can return to balanced public finances when the recovery comes. we've just begun to reflect on these exit strategies. the design and coordination and the way they are implemented will be a very important component in achieving a balanced and long-term economic recovery. another major challenge is employment. we must carefully design the measures required, while ensuring a balanced interaction between fiscal and structural policies. i am convinced that we too will reiterate the need to stand up against protectionism and to ensure a level playing field in global markets. this will require significant coordination of financial regulation and supervision, but also of the winding-up of the extraordinary measures we have taken to support the financial sector. extensive work at national and eu level will still be required. discussions will continue tomorrow and in pittsburgh, but also throughout the rest of the year on the reform of the institutional financial institutions. we want them to be strong, with adequate resources, the right mandate, policy guidelines and governance structures that accurately reflect their membership. these issues are complex and interrelated, but they need to be addressed urgently so that financial institutions can carry out an increasingly important task. finally, i would say that there is of course a strong need for political determination to make progress in the discussions ahead of the copenhagen climate summit. this is a very important priority for the swedish presidency. we want to ensure that everyone has the right incentives to take action to limit global warming and to adapt economic policies to favour climate-friendly development. our goal is for the pittsburgh meeting to lead to progress on the guidelines for financing global climate action. i cannot promise that we will achieve everything we want because these are very complicated issues, but we promise that the presidency will responsibly present and defend the eu's positions. it is in this spirit that i look forward to fruitful discussions with the heads of state and government tomorrow evening and the concrete results that the world expects from pittsburgh next week. (applause) i would like to thank you.
member of the commission. - mr president, mrs malmström, ladies and gentlemen, i address this house for the first time in this new legislature and i want to start by congratulating you all on your election, or re-election in many cases, and i am sure that i share with all of you the sense of responsibility with which we must face one of the greatest political challenges of our generation, which is to overcome this deep economic and financial crisis, to return to our citizens a horizon of confidence and stability, to widen the range of their opportunities and to achieve the highest possible level of social cohesion for all. the issue we are going to be debating at the g20 pittsburgh summit next week is at the heart of this challenge and this concern, and i am convinced that it will be a recurring theme throughout the next period, throughout this entire legislature, here in the european parliament, regardless of whether these issues are discussed at the g20 summits, in the european councils, in their own debates or in the own-initiative proposals that the next commission will bring to this house. the g20 summit in pittsburgh is the third summit of heads of state or government since the collapse of lehman brothers a year and a day ago and the beginning of a crisis of proportions unknown for many decades. in the light of the experience of the first two g20 summits at the highest level, in washington last november and in london this april, it is obvious that the g20 is playing a decisive role in coordinating the global response to this crisis. the g20's contribution to finding coordinated responses has been essential to preventing an even deeper recession than the one we are experiencing, and to laying the foundations for an economic and financial system that will prevent the future recurrence of the imbalances and excesses that have led to the present situation. the european union has played a key active role in activating the g20 to this end. the first washington summit was, as president barroso said yesterday, a european initiative of the french presidency, president sarkozy and the commission, and the european union also played a decisive role in setting the ambitious objectives of the previous two summits and in taking an active part in the preparatory work for them, in order to achieve not only declarations of principle but also concrete results and commitments. all of us europeans, the european institutions, should be satisfied with this. we can also be reasonably satisfied with the degree of coordination that has existed between the different european representatives in the g-20, the european countries that are members of the g-20 and participate in the g-20 meetings as such countries, plus the presidency of the european union together with the commission, which we represent the voice of all europeans and the common position of all member countries. the washington summit last november was the occasion for the world's major economies - the g20 countries representing something like 90% of the world's total gdp - to agree on the implementation of stimulus plans to sustain economic activity at a time, last autumn, when credit, international trade and investment were being brought to a standstill as a result of the very serious financial shock that first unleashed in august 2007 and accelerated in an incredible way in september 2008. a few days after the washington summit last year, the commission proposed the european economic recovery plan, which received the political support of the european council in december, and which has been the basis of the european response from the point of view of fiscal policies and policies to stimulate demand through instruments in the hands of national governments and parliaments, or in the hands of the european institutions themselves. with the latest information available, these discretionary fiscal stimulus, plus the play of automatic stabilizers, which in european countries is very important given the weight of our taxation and our social protection system, can be estimated to be adding, as a contribution to aggregate demand, the equivalent of 5.5 percent of the gdp of the european union between 2009 and 2010. the new us administration has also adopted a very important stimulus plan. since their automatic stabilizers are smaller than the european ones, the aggregate of the direct stimulus plus the automatic stabilizers leads to a similar boost on this side of the atlantic and the other side of the atlantic, but also countries like japan, china, canada and other g-20 members adopted equivalent fiscal stimulus. the london summit at the beginning of april this year stressed the need to implement these plans quickly, called for their careful monitoring and stated that, if necessary, they should be supplemented by additional measures. today we can say that the stimulus plans, together with the very substantial monetary stimulus also adopted by the central banks, plus the mobilisation of public resources in support of the financial institutions and, in particular, the banks, have succeeded in halting the free fall of the economy and allow us to see now, this autumn, the first signs of stabilization, as can be seen in the economic forecasts which i had the opportunity to present two days ago in brussels. for the first time in two years, these forecasts have not had to be revised downwards. however, we are not in a position today to ensure that economic activity can be sustained on its own if we withdraw the incentives. and it is true that there are, even with the stimulus that is being applied, risks of relapse given the extremely worrying progression of unemployment and the still unresolved weaknesses in the financial system. one of the messages that the g20 finance ministers, meeting in london earlier this month, have agreed to send to the pittsburgh summit is therefore the need to maintain temporary support measures for the time being, without prejudice to the need to devise a coordinated exit strategy now. and i will refer to that for a moment at the end of my speech. the two g20 summits in washington and london were also instrumental in setting a global agenda for reforms of financial regulation and supervision systems. we can say that we are witnessing a radical turning point after almost three decades dominated by the paradigm of deregulation and theories about the supposed infallibility of financial markets. in washington, the g20 countries laid the groundwork, set out the principles and defined the agenda for subjecting financial markets to stricter, more effective regulation and supervision, which does not leave areas, products or financial actors outside the scope of control of the supervisory and regulatory authorities, authorities that must cooperate and coordinate much more closely to overcome the flagrant ineffectiveness of national supervisory systems in the face of globalised markets and financial institutions that operate across borders in those markets. the london summit in april was a busy one, with concrete and significant progress being made in implementing this reform agenda. from prudential and accounting rules for financial institutions to the strong demand for transparency in non-cooperative jurisdictions, i.e. tax havens, to the regulation of hedge funds or other financial institutions, the organisation of transparent derivatives markets, or the enactment of rules on the remuneration of financial institution managers and traders operating in the markets, the london g20 gave a strong impetus to the fulfilment of the promise of reform. the european union has therefore not only carried out a very important task of promoting these agreements at the level of the g-20, but also an important task of implementing these g-20 agreements, which has meant intensive regulatory work for the last year. some of these proposals have already been adopted here in this parliament and by the council, others are now being discussed in this house and in the council and by the end of the year the commission is planning to adopt a further set of proposals, starting next week, the day before the pittsburgh summit, with the proposal to set up the european systemic risk board and the three european micro-supervisory authorities at european level, following the recommendations of the de larosière report which both the council and the commission have endorsed. the us administration has also unveiled an ambitious financial reform plan that president obama, this week, reaffirmed as a priority of his mandate, recognizing the responsibility of the united states as the place where this crisis was incubated and started. the pittsburgh summit set itself the objective of verifying that these reforms were making significant progress and of ensuring the necessary regulatory convergence on both sides of the atlantic. any regulatory divergence will or may in the future serve as a basis for investor arbitrage strategies that could again produce significant distortions in markets. but pittsburgh, in addition to monitoring the implementation of what has already been agreed and pushing forward the implementation of the measures adopted, must send a clear political message. it is now a matter of confirming the unwavering will of the states, political leaders, institutions, our countries, the european union, to establish a solid regulatory framework with a firm commitment and a dissuasive message: 'let no one think that once we have overcome the worst of this crisis, the previous practices that generated the crisis can be repeated, as if nothing had happened'. citizens want guarantees that financial institutions and their managers will be required to respect rules, particularly as regards remuneration, which prevent the financial system and the real economy as a whole from being put at risk again. and it must be said that the european union is totally united on this point. another issue which is high on the agenda of the various g20 summits is the reform of the international financial institutions to which minister malmström has already referred. i would just like to add that london has taken a step forward of enormous significance in terms of the financial capacity of these institutions and, in particular, of the international monetary fund, by increasing the fund's credit capacity by no more and no less than 500 billion dollars, bringing the total limit now available to the imf for its operations to 750 billion dollars. and in addition to this, it was agreed to distribute among all the member countries of the fund, in proportion to their quota, special drawing rights worth 250 billion dollars, and in addition to all this, it was also agreed to increase the financial capacity of the monetary fund to increase its concessional credits to the poorest countries. and all of this is already underway. in the space of six months much more progress has been made in this direction than in many previous years. the european union has, of course, agreed to contribute to this increase in the fund's financial resources, and the members of the european union have agreed to add eur 125 billion to their usual contributions to match the funding of the new objectives. the g20 leaders will also discuss the adaptation of the representation of the different countries in the governing bodies of the international financial institutions. the emerging and developing countries rightly aspire to more adequate representation. an aspiration which the european union supports, but which must be translated into concrete agreements, for which the european commission - which is not the official position of the presidency of the european union - continues to say that, in line with what this parliament has been thinking so far, the best representation of the european union in these bodies is a single representation. the pittsburgh summit agenda will also cover other issues: financing climate change, preparing for the copenhagen summit; the need to resume international trade negotiations and not give in to protectionist temptations; and strengthening support for the most vulnerable and weakest countries to deal with this crisis. as you know, the commission adopted a communication on climate finance last week. finally, let me conclude, noting the will expressed at the last meeting of the g20 finance ministers and which will be discussed at the pittsburgh summit, the need to lay the foundations for a future model of more balanced and sustainable growth. this is firstly achieved by devising exit strategies now, not to be applied immediately, but to be implemented when appropriate in a coordinated manner, because the determination of such strategies is not only key to a sustainable exit from this crisis, but also to offer at the same time a medium- and long-term sustainability horizon after the deep fracture that the crisis has taken on public finances, on employment levels and on the growth capacity of our economies.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam minister, commissioner, we obviously appreciate all the efforts you have mentioned and which have already gone far enough, but we want more. we want a number of g20 elements and commitments to be implemented. i would like to draw your attention to the discrepancy between the rather encouraging figures in the financial field and the terrible figures for unemployment in the european union. if we have long-term unemployment, we will have, first, a human tragedy, and also a burden on public finances and a lack of stimulus through consumption. we in the liberal group are very much afraid of a japanese-style scenario and a kind of soft growth for a few years. i believe that your country, madam, sweden, has unfortunately also experienced this. please help us to take advantage of this experience. i think there are three main areas of work. the first is that we continue to cooperate internationally, that we continue to fight protectionism, that we strengthen global institutions, like the imf. we're not gonna make it on our own. europe must be relentless in hammering this message. secondly, we must carry out effective supervision and much more stringent bank restructuring. in this respect, we are wary of the g20's advertising effects. there are the executives, but there is work to be done at the legislative level and, for us, mr almunia, the commission's proposals on supervision are a step in the right direction, but it is not enough. in the long term, we want more european entities. secondly, i believe that we must think about common strategies for overcoming the crisis by preserving the euro and ensuring that deficits do not weigh on common monetary discipline. in conclusion, i would like to thank commissioner almunia for saying that he was in favour of the european union as such taking a position in international bodies, defending the community method. we are counting on you to ensure that not only the major states have their voices heard, but that the whole of the european union and the whole of the internal market are well defended.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, one year after the collapse of lehman brothers, the voice of the european union at the g20 summit in pittsburgh will be absolutely critical if we are to avoid a return to the status quo and to ensure that the dynamics of change remain at the top of the agenda. four points to make. the first is that at the g20 summit in london last april, the heads of state and government committed themselves to increasing the resources of the imf. we saw that there was a great mobilization to fulfill this objective. i fear that this is less of a determination to be a player in the much needed reform of the governance of the imf. second observation: attention must be paid to the effects of fashion. i would not like the pervasiveness of the debate on bonuses and remuneration for both ceos and traders - which is absolutely critical if we are to move the system towards a less short-term system that is more conducive to long-term investment - to sideline the equally essential fight on the issue of combating tax havens, which was the main topic of the london summit. thirdly, and i repeat what mr udo bullmann said, we are at a historic moment when the question of the contribution of banks to the financing of the aftermath of the crisis must be put to rest in order to allow the debate on the taxation of transactions to be revived, which must also make it possible to provide financial resources for long-term investment. once again, after the way in which the banks have been supported and helped to cope with this crisis, it is right, normal and efficient that they can now contribute to financing the economy. the last point: when we look at the employment situation, i think that from the very beginning our g20 meetings have been lacking in the ability to address the macroeconomic question, the question of a global employment pact and the question of returning to a strategy which, tomorrow, will allow us to correct the global imbalances which are at the root of this crisis.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome your determination to do so. europe has begun to put in place effective regulation, but it cannot be isolated. close international cooperation is necessary, and that is what we expect from the g20. it must continue with rigour and vigour the reforms which were initiated at previous meetings. the international regulatory framework for the financial sector needs to be improved so that it is in the service of investment, growth and employment. guiding principles must be affirmed. the crisis is not over. we must not go back to the situation we had before and abandon the measures needed to avoid, as far as possible, the recurrence of crises which are particularly damaging to the real economy, growth and employment. strengthening of supervision and regulation is also necessary. the supervisory obligations should reflect the level of systemic risk that financial institutions impose on the sector. speculative activities, which represent a significant risk, must be discouraged by increasing capital requirements and by applying the basel rules internationally. with regard to remuneration in the financial sector, it is appropriate to promote remuneration committees, to increase the transparency of remuneration through stricter publication obligations and to regulate variable remuneration, in particular bonuses. the strengthening of global financial institutions is also an imperative, as is the reform of governance and representation at the imf. these are, commissioner, some of the expectations of the citizens in the face of the next g20, where europe will have to speak with one voice, with strength and conviction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis we are going through is deep and lasting. it is therefore urgent and absolutely essential to put in place the necessary regulations and supervision of the financial sector and the banks, in order to prevent the current crisis from recurring with even greater violence. the financial system must be put back in the service of the real economy and not continue to ruin it. in this respect, the last g20 summit in london, which was mentioned, ended with proposals, at least partial ones, but above all the speeches did not turn into deeds and financial derivatives are again there. in the face of this situation, and if the g20 summit in pittsburgh is to be truly useful, the european union must advocate strong regulatory measures that are actually followed by effects. i would like to mention, in addition to the essential financial provisions mentioned by many of my colleagues, the issues of trade and development, because the pittsburgh summit will also be about the relaunching of the doha round. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. our partners in the south will not accept, and rightly so, that their concerns are still unanswered. the g20 is not just about the financial crisis: it is about laying the foundations for a new global governance.
mr president, madam minister, mr almunia, first of all, on 3 september last, germany, the united kingdom and france agreed, spoke with one voice in a european consensus on the question of the regulation of trader bonuses. on thursday, the 27 will meet to prepare for the g20. i encourage you to work actively to find a solution, a common but above all an ambitious answer to the question of the remuneration of traders. the rules and decisions taken at the last g20 meeting in april were not respected, as banks, which had also received state aid, quickly set aside sums to pay traders. the european citizens can no longer understand and would not understand that measures are taken at this g20 summit and that failures are not punished. when there are state aids, there must be strict penalties for failure to comply. it is therefore necessary that concrete measures, and above all joint measures, be adopted in pittsburgh. you can't be virtuous on your own. in short, pay must be better governed by rules on transparency, governance and accountability, and penalties must be applied in the event of non-compliance.
mr president, you spoke of the governance of the imf. i also wanted to know whether you intended to bring to the g20 the question of the conditionality of the money that the imf lends to states. it was seen that the very liberal conditionalities had not been changed, particularly in the loans made to certain european states. what's your position on that? secondly, what is the position of the commission and the council on the chinese proposal to set up a slightly different international currency to regulate the financial system in a different way instead of the dollar? thirdly, the g20 is also part of the preparations for copenhagen. the commission has proposed between €2 billion and €15 billion to help countries in the south adapt to climate change. what is the council's position? how much money are you going to put on the g20 table next week?
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, the very ambitious programme you have presented to us is interesting, but do you not think that we should address the question of whether it is still worthwhile today to favour very short-term transactions and very short-term profitability over the medium and long term? the lack of financing for our companies, particularly in europe, is precisely due to the interest that is always shown in very short-term investments. don't you think we should address this?
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? in the overall fight against terrorism, the question is how such activities are centrally financed. preventing the financing of terrorism and tracing the traces that transactions may leave can both prevent and be important in the investigation of terrorist offences. to do that, we need to work together internationally. we should follow the call of the 1999 un convention on the prevention and punishment of the financing of terrorism and the relevant council of europe conventions. members who attended the hearing behind closed doors on 3 september 2009 in the libe committee heard how the terrorist finance tracking programme (tftp) has contributed to increasing security also for eu citizens. in recent years, information from the tftp has contributed to the detection and investigation of terrorist offences and also to the prevention of terrorist attacks on european soil. the presidency has a unanimous negotiating mandate from the council of 27 july 2009 based on a proposal from the commission. the best thing would have been if the negotiations with the united states had been based on the lisbon treaty. the european parliament could then participate fully, but as you know, that is not possible yet. since swift is moving its database from the us to europe at the end of the year, it is imperative that the eu conclude a short-term agreement with the us as soon as possible so as not to risk an interruption in the exchange of information. it's in everyone's best interest. i would like to emphasize that this is an interim agreement for the interim period until a permanent agreement can be concluded. it will not last longer than 12 months and as soon as a new treaty is in place the commission has announced its intention to submit a proposal for a permanent agreement. in order to benefit the eu and the member states, the us must continue to provide the respective competent authorities in the eu with information from the tftp in the same way as it has done so far. it will happen. in addition, the interim agreement will explicitly allow eu law enforcement authorities to request data from tftp databases themselves in the context of terrorist investigations. the presidency is convinced of the usefulness of the tftp data. at the same time, we are clear that the interim agreement must contain the necessary mechanisms to guarantee the protection of the individual's privacy, legal certainty and data protection. the draft agreement therefore contains a provision that a specific eu authority will receive, process and approve a request from the united states to obtain information from swift. equally important, the interim agreement will contain detailed provisions on data protection in respect of the information received by the united states from swift through the european authority. the agreement will go further than in the past through the unilateral commitments to the eu entered into by the us in the so-called tftp representations of 2007, published in the official journal of the european union. let me mention a few additional provisions which we will be demanding that the agreement contain. data shall be stored securely, any access to data shall be logged, any search of the tftp database shall be limited to persons or data where there is a well-founded suspicion or a clear link to a terrorist offence, the retention period of the data reviewed shall be limited and data shall be deleted from the database at the latest after five years and earlier where possible. we are very clear that the tftp should only be used in investigations of terrorist offences, including the financing of terrorism. the system can be used by the us or the eu to investigate other types of crime or for other purposes. it is also important, of course, that the transfer of information from the eu to the us under the tftp is proportionate in the agreement. that is why, in addition to the rules on the european authority which i have just mentioned, there is a provision that the system is to be evaluated by an independent evaluation group. this group consists, for the eu, of representatives of the presidency, the commission and two persons from the national data protection authorities of the member states. the evaluation team shall be responsible for reviewing compliance with the agreement, the correct application of the data protection provisions and the proportionality of the transfer of data. we have a shared responsibility to ensure that law enforcement agencies can work effectively against terrorism. we also have a shared responsibility to ensure that this is done in a legally secure manner and with respect for fundamental rights. the presidency is convinced that the exchange of information with the us under the tftp will increase protection against terrorism and that we can reach both an interim and eventually a long-term agreement that meets our high standards of data protection and respect for fundamental rights.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank mrs beatrice ask warmly for giving us an update on all the developments concerning swift and on the negotiations currently under way with the united states for the continuation of the programme to track down terrorist financing, the tftp. i myself had the opportunity, at the libe committee meeting on 22 july, to explain how the tftp works and why we need an interim solution to ensure that it does not come to an end. the joint meeting of the libe and econ committees on 3 september was attended by the swedish presidency, jls director-general mr faull and mr bruguière. i believe that this meeting has helped to clarify a number of open questions. i would like to emphasize a few aspects briefly. the added value of the us treasury's evaluation of data under the tftp was confirmed by mr bruguière's report, which was read by the members of the libe and econ committees at the joint meeting in early september. as the presidency also recalled, this data analysis has enabled the us authorities to prevent attacks or to facilitate investigations into terrorist attacks, both in the us and in europe. on the other hand, the report by justice bruguière confirmed that the us authorities had respected the commitments made in 2007 in the field of data protection, namely - as béatrice ask has just pointed out - the limitation of data retention and access to be used only if there is a suspicion of terrorist financing. in short, mr bruguière said that the commitments had been respected. however, it is clear that the legal framework negotiated in 2007 will no longer be operational as soon as the data is no longer in the us, following the change in swift's architecture planned for the end of the year. in order to allow the us authorities to continue to analyse data on these inter-european transactions located in the netherlands, an interim international agreement between the eu and the us is necessary. the inclusion in this agreement of all the guarantees necessary to safeguard the fundamental rights of our citizens, in particular the protection of personal data, is an absolute prerequisite. of course, we fully support the presidency in its efforts in this direction. i would also like to say to parliament, mr president, as the minister has just said, that this is an interim agreement, which cannot exceed a maximum of 12 months, and which must be renegotiated immediately after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, with the full involvement of the european parliament. i can assure you that the commission will of course continue to keep parliament constantly informed of developments in this matter. i would add that we are happy to be able to prepare this agreement, which will be a permanent agreement, a lasting agreement, requiring, of course, perfect reciprocity from our american partners. we are also interested in the fight against terrorism and there is no reason why there should not be full and complete reciprocity. that is why i believe that parliament's participation in the negotiation of a future lasting agreement will be beneficial. that's what i believe, in my soul and in my conscience. i would like to thank the swedish presidency and mrs beatrice ask again for having explained to us the situation which is now involved in this agreement, which is again temporary.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to speak for the first time in this house to give voice to the millions of europeans who want another europe. the swift case is symptomatic of the security lapses imposed in the name of terrorism, ignoring the most basic rights of our fellow citizens. in this case, the united states hacked into bank data, without any legal basis, and without even the slightest bit of information from the authorities in europe. the scandal has caused a reaction from european authorities. an agreement was signed with the us government. an expert has taken stock of this agreement. but what expert? a french anti-terrorist judge, judge bruguière, whose abuses of fundamental rights are well known in france. we are therefore sceptical about the quality of his report. beyond the question of principle, the motion for a resolution before us contains many warnings with which we agree, but they are insufficient. we are proposing amendments to strengthen the requirements that the european parliament must set. we must go further and demand that the agreement be suspended if the principles set out therein are violated. we want to know why it has taken so long for the european institutions to inform parliament and why there is such a rush to conclude this new agreement. we are counting on the swedish presidency. we will always ensure that fundamental rights are respected. yes, our citizens have a right to security, but it must be implemented without us having to live in a society of social control and widespread filing.
mr president, the speaker is interrupted by a commotion coming from the right. are you sick or what? are you sick? since there were problems with the voting yesterday, i'm asking you to take a tour of the machines. it's not so stupid, is it, comrades, huh!?
in writing. out of political consistency and respect for our constituents, i voted against mr barroso's re-election. during his five years in office, mr barroso, the organiser of some eu countries' support for george w. bush's war in iraq, was never able to revive the european union or strengthen it in the face of national egoism. it has not been up to the challenge when the financial, economic and social crisis has arisen. in the last five years, it has only accompanied the drift of financial capitalism instead of proposing the new regulations that europe needs in the 21st century. a reorientation of the european commission's policy is needed. mr barroso is not the man for the job! the commission's programme does not respond in any way to the scale of the current crisis: the absence of a european recovery plan, an employment pact, effective regulation and supervision of financial markets or stronger and more rapid instruments to correct the current imbalances. we need a directive on public services and a reorientation of the commission in the area of pay. if we want to save our european social model, we need a much more ambitious social agenda.
in writing. i am one of the 219 meps who voted against mr barroso, as were my friends representing national movements in europe. he is a sympathetic and cultured man, but above all he is a symbol of the failure of the european union. it has failed to protect our economies and jobs from unfair global competition; to help european countries out of the crisis; to reform the financial system to curb all-round speculation; to guarantee democracy; to ensure food independence; or to halt the accelerated deindustrialization of our countries. it has failed, in a word, to demonstrate that brussels-based europe is nothing more than a machine for crushing nations and peoples, impoverishing them and enslaving them. the election of mr barroso is also a symbol of how this europe works. what would it be like if, instead of the president of the commission, who will influence the lives of 500 million europeans through his policies, it were a head of state who, although the only candidate, had been elected with just over half the votes!
in writing. i voted against mr barroso's candidacy today for three main reasons. first, his personal record over the last five years: a weak, conservative and liberal presidency, immobile in the face of the crisis, unable to stimulate a coordinated recovery, exclusively attentive to the wishes of the heads of state and government. josé manuel barroso has certainly not served a strong europe. secondly, the insufficient response to the conditions put forward by the s&d group: no real recovery plan, no employment pact, no regulation, no supervision or effective instruments to correct the imbalances in the financial markets, no commitment to a framework directive protecting public services. finally, we must respect the messages sent by the voters at the time of the european consultation, who told us that they no longer wanted a europe that was weakened and unreadable, where compromise is seen as a virtue superior to political orientations.
in writing. the election of the president of the european commission is an important event and the citizens of the union should have the right to know who their representatives are. i personally regret and denounce the secret voting procedure which does not lead to accountability. moreover, because i have nothing in common with the policy proposed by mr barroso, i am voting against his candidacy for the presidency of the commission.
in writing. i voted against the candidacy of mr josé manuel barroso primarily because i believe in a genuine political europe, which cannot be satisfied with a commission that is subordinated to the wishes of big business. i also believe that we cannot campaign for a different european leadership and then give a blank cheque to a liberal chanter whose programme is woefully lacking in ambition and values. a man who has taken refuge behind the concept of "better regulation" in order to "less regulation" of everything i stand for as a socialist: defence of public services, social protection of workers, respect for health systems, regulation of the financial economy, protection of consumers and the environment against the power of industrial groups. i believe that these values cannot be called into question by calculations and games of trickery aimed at obtaining ridiculous concessions from the conservatives who control the majority of the member states, the parliament and the commission, and who will continue their policy of deregulation.
in writing. although the vote for president of the european commission is secret, i would like to publicly express my support for the candidate of our political family, josé manuel barroso, whom i warmly congratulate on his re-election. it was only natural that, following the european elections won by the epp, the president of the future commission should come from our ranks. so, despite the fruitless agitation of the disunited left and the greens, who had no one to present, mr barroso was comfortably re-elected. i also welcome his reiterated commitment to work closely with our assembly, where he can count on our determination and support whenever the proposals for our european project have to be voted on. parliament and the commission will now be able to get to work without delay, which was the most important thing at this difficult time when many challenges are urgently needed for all europeans. furthermore, as europe is engaged in the g20 and climate negotiations, it needed to be united and in good order: today's clear and unambiguous vote also strengthens it in the face of other world powers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 16 september 2009 on the forest fires of summer 2009. this resolution follows many others which highlight the frequency, severity, complexity and impact of natural and man-made disasters in europe, which have increased rapidly in recent years. the phenomenon of forest fires is aggravated by rural exodus, the gradual abandonment of traditional activities, inadequate forest maintenance, the existence of large areas of forest planted with a single species, the planting of unsuitable tree species, the absence of an effective prevention policy and the lightness of the penalties provided for in the case of intentional fire, as well as by the faulty application of laws prohibiting illegal construction and guaranteeing reforestation. i regret that the commission has not, despite parliament's requests, taken steps to create a european civil security force, and i welcome the action of my friend michel barnier who has long proposed this arrangement. finally, at a time when private insurance companies do not offer fire insurance for forests, it is becoming urgent, in view of the failure of the private sector, to study a collective public/private instrument to insure forests against storms and fires.
in writing. forest fires have ravaged southern france once again this summer. like other european neighbours, our citizens have been caught in the flames, and these disasters have resulted in not only material but also human damage. that is why i have spoken in favour of the creation of an independent and permanent european response force whose task would be to assist the member states and regions affected by fires and other disasters. we also need - and this is also our appeal to the commission - a strategy to preserve the rich ecosystems of our natural parks, whether they are the bauges, the ardèche or the luberon, all while relying on funding for prevention and restoration of damaged ecosystems. the use of the cap could be justified in preventing the spread of forest fires, which are too often caused by the presence of bushes in abundance in certain areas. finally, i also voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund, which has been blocked by the council to date, even though there are still acute needs.
madam president, first of all i would like to stress the importance for the european union, for parliament and for all members of this house of the fight against all forms of discrimination, including discrimination based on sexual orientation. what are we talking about today? a bill in lithuania which is problematic, which is so problematic that mrs grybauskaite has taken care of it. it has vetoed it, it has even invested a working group, which is going to propose amendments to us. i therefore have full confidence in it and i am sure that this problem will be solved and that the member state concerned will find a solution to the serious problem of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. we have consulted, some groups have proposed a resolution and we have had the good fortune to find a common resolution. i am therefore convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this joint resolution will be adopted tomorrow and that this problem will be solved. it is of course important that the intellectual and mental health of our children be protected, but i would remind you that the fight against all forms of sex discrimination is important. we have been working on it for many, many years. we have a human rights agency. it's good for something. we have fought for it and there is no question of abandoning it and throwing it away. i therefore thank you for your kindness in adopting this joint resolution. i thank all the colleagues who have invested themselves in these negotiations. it is a great pleasure to see that we have succeeded in building this joint resolution and i hope that it will be adopted in the house tomorrow.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for months now, farmers have been alerting the commission and the council to the seriousness of the crisis. tens of thousands of jobs are being destroyed in rural areas. the european union had bet on growth in world demand. its experts were very wrong. the financial and economic crisis we are experiencing has a direct impact on agriculture and consumption. the decision by the commissioner for agriculture to maintain the increase in quotas and the council's intention to dismantle them in 2015 are a provocation for milk producers. times have changed. european policy must adapt to a new global context. the milk prices charged to producers do not cover production costs. some farmers lose as much as 30 cents for every gallon of milk. many of them, at the end of the year, will have lost or won not a single euro. and some, it's regional officials telling us, some, today, are going to suicide. in the face of this unprecedented crisis, the european union must take important action quickly. we call on the heads of state and government who are meeting tonight to prepare for the g20 to put the issue of the dairy crisis on the agenda of their meeting in order to take appropriate measures to respond to the farmers. the european union must strengthen the bargaining capacity of dairy farmers so that they are no longer subject to the dictates of the agri-food sector. it must also set up a safety net to ensure that the price is remunerative so that it is never below the cost of production. the european union must end its export refund programme. it has just committed the pharaonic sum of 480 million euros, adopted hand in hand by various parliamentary groups of the right and the left, to sell its surpluses on world markets. it ruins hundreds of thousands of jobs for southern peasants and cynically drives them to emigrate or to leave. above all, the european union must immediately reduce by 5% the european milk quotas in an orderly fashion, in inverse proportion to the volume delivered by farmers, in order to restore a rapid balance between supply and demand. the policy of laissez-faire is unsustainable. it has terrible consequences in terms of employment and land use. there will be no europe without peasants!
madam president, madam commissioner, i will be brief. i think there are two elements in this debate. the question is how to get out of this crisis. all measures, from aid to farmers to intervention measures, are necessary and absolutely necessary. they must be supported and even considered as more important. that is what we are proposing with a number of colleagues here in parliament. secondly, there is a structural question on the management of the milk market, and that is where we differ with you, commissioner. you propose to go in the direction of contracting. i am telling you in advance that if we conclude contracts between industrialists and farmers, we will eventually enter into a competition on a european scale, since the industries are in competition with each other. we need public regulation to regulate a market. there's no other way. that is where the debate will have to start after this crisis. i think that in this debate all opinions and all options must be respected, and i fear that we have gone too fast at the time of the health check to settle an issue like the quotas, which so far, i say to all those who have spoken, have made it possible to maintain milk production in europe, to ensure a highly developed dairy industry and, at the same time, to preserve a price for consumers, which was until now quite tolerable.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, listening to your communication makes me even more worried. it does not address the serious social suffering suffered by milk producers and all farmers. it is a structural crisis, not a cyclical one, as you said, due to successive deregulations. that is why we are calling for an extraordinary meeting of the european council to save peasant agriculture. the commission should decide, firstly, on the creation of an exceptional fund for aid to non-industrial milk production, secondly, on the immediate fixing of an intra-european minimum price which purchasing centres would be obliged to respect without an increase in consumer prices, and thirdly, on the freezing of national production quotas and the cessation of abusive imports from outside the community.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would also like to welcome the presidency of the council. madam commissioner, you yourself admitted to the committee on agriculture the other day that the price paid to milk producers no longer covers production costs. so this means that our producers are decapitalizing. you have just listed the measures you have taken in the last nine months. they exist, we can only give you proof. but they have not produced the desired effect because we do not think they are sufficient in volume, and perhaps their target is too uncertain in terms of effectiveness. this morning you mentioned a recovery in the market, but producers will probably only see the results of this in the payments at the beginning of next year. the market for agricultural products is not the market for metals or energy. he calls for regulatory tools, because the cycles of the seasons, the natural elements also dictate market conditions. we are surprised by your interpretation of the health check which was concluded under the french presidency, because the progress reports it has provided for in the dairy sector leave all doors open, including those for new decisions on the instruments for regulating the markets. the french delegation to which i belong is convinced that a renewed quota system will be necessary after 2013. the tension in the food market before the current economic crisis has demonstrated the fragility of the global balance between production and consumption. after having partly dismantled the intervention tools, we have neither the right nor the legitimacy to dismantle today the production tools we will need in the short term. we must restore dignity to farmers, to those men and women who are not afraid of the word 'work'.
mr president, commissioner, i am an elected representative of a region in the west of france where there is a huge concentration of dairy farmers, and i do not think you have noticed the social tragedy they are experiencing today. commissioner, when you speak of 'producers', i mean 'industrialists' and 'distributors'. the dairy farmers do not need your sympathy, commissioner. they don't need outdated liberal theories that have brought us into an unprecedented global crisis. the dairy farmers need a real agricultural policy. they need strict quotas. that is why we are asking the council to reverse your policy and to make it a genuine policy of support for milk producers and to stop this policy of mass destruction of these producers.
in writing. to deal with the particularly unfavourable economic situation facing the dairy sector, a strong intervention by the european union is now urgently needed. i agree with the majority of member states that the solutions proposed by the commission are not satisfactory. i certainly welcome the flexibility it allows, which will make it possible to increase the ceiling for national aid from 7 500 to 15 000 euros for producers in difficulty. however, more effective intervention tools are essential. to cope with the increasing price volatility, our markets need to be more regulated. the joint declaration by 16 member states on the situation on the european milk market gives the commission valuable suggestions for better regulation of the milk markets. i also think it is necessary, as seven member states are asking, to consider a temporary suspension of the increase in quotas. i also reiterate my support for the establishment of a 'milk fund' to help producer organisations and cooperatives, as well as support for agricultural investment, modernisation, diversification of milk production, geographical location measures and marketing measures for milk products.
mr president, the energy independence of our territory and the security of installations and consumers cannot go hand in hand with disregard for the interests of the peoples of the gas producing and transit countries, which could lead to conflicts. competition between pipeline projects is not only a source of waste but also a factor of tension in eastern europe, the caucasus and central asia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the crisis. this could be the mission of a european energy agency under the control of the parliament and the council, whose only policy would be cooperation and the public interest. why, then, do we feel that commercial interests prevail over the interests of the peoples of europe in this case? i would also like to warn the commission firmly against the temptation to use the nabucco project as a trojan horse to force turkey into the union. respect for secularism, women's rights and the rights of the kurdish people, as well as recognition of the armenian genocide, must remain the decisive criteria for turkey's eventual accession.
mr president, energy is not a matter for the european union. good work, commissioner piebalgs, for all you do. energy and access, it will be war, sometimes military, sometimes political, sometimes economic. if it's gas, we'll have a gas war. we will not know whether gas will be the cause of the war or whether it will be a consequence, but we will have a gas war. we know the figures: in the caucasus countries, two centuries of reserves; in russia, a century; in north africa, half a century; in the baltic countries, half a century; in europe, about 20 years. so we have to prepare our imports. yes, nabucco is a good project and we must support it, but, commissioner, we must financially and politically support all the diversification of energy sources, whether it be nord stream or south stream, north or south. we must also rely on our manufacturers, who are competent, loyal and ethical, but let us not be naive. i would ask you, commissioner, to study without delay the proposals of certain member states who want us to have a functioning european instrument for action on the gas market, that is to say, to create a european gas purchasing power station, as you are doing for the caucasus with the caspian development corporation. as far as desertec is concerned, good for you. we know the numbers: 1 square kilometer of desert receives the equivalent of 1.5 million barrels of oil. this is an excellent project for the euro-mediterranean. we know that 0.3 percent of the world's deserts could provide energy for everyone. we know that we will solve our energy problems with human ingenuity and science, but with ethics and conscience. you are doing a very good job, commissioner, because we have here the europe of results, a europe that protects, a europe that acts. good work, and keep it up, you will have the support of the european parliament.
mr president, commissioner, as my colleagues have just said, the recent gas crisis between russia and ukraine shows the urgency of increasing the energy security and independence of the european union. the european union is still too dependent, in particular on its gas imports, since by 2020 it will probably have to import about 80% of its gas. this situation cannot continue unless it endangers the energy security of the european union in the long term. the infrastructure projects under way, which you have just mentioned, are obviously moving in the right direction. the recent gas crisis between russia and ukraine was only a few months ago. commissioner, what about next winter? because those who have experienced the shortages, those who fear them, must know how europe will protect them from these possible new crises.
in writing. i voted, on the basis of the report by my italian colleague paolo de castro, for the proposal for a council regulation derogating from the regulation on the common organisation of the market (com) as regards the 2009 and 2010 intervention periods for butter and skimmed milk powder. after the 2007 price spike for all food products in the world, including milk, the last 12 months have been characterised by a collapse in prices. i support the commission which introduced, at the beginning of 2009, aid for private storage of butter to support the market. given the exceptional nature of the situation, i support the extension, until 28 february 2010, of the current public intervention period for butter and skimmed milk powder by means of a tendering procedure. moreover, given the uncertainty about the time it will take for the dairy market to recover, i supported the authorisation given to the commission to extend the 2010/2011 intervention period, also by means of a tendering procedure, if the market situation so requires.
in writing. i voted in support of the joint resolution on the proposed international agreement to make financial messaging data available to the us secretary of the treasury for the prevention and financing of terrorism. as representatives of the public and aware of the sensitivity of this subject, which concerns fundamental rights, we nevertheless demand strong guarantees before any agreement is reached with the united states on swift: that data will be transferred only to combat terrorism; that a reciprocity mechanism obliges the united states to transfer relevant financial information upon request of the european authorities; that the interim agreement is limited to a maximum of 12 months; that a new agreement be negotiated at a later date, once the treaty of lisbon has entered into force, with the full participation of the european parliament and national parliaments. i also hope that the veil of secrecy which has largely covered the heart of this matter will be lifted and that we, as elected representatives of europe, will be much more informed about the arrangements laid down in this agreement than we have been so far.
in writing. the motion for a resolution before us today is quite a sight. the point is that a country is being blamed because its democratically elected parliament is considering a law which aims to protect minors, as in most member states, and which wants in particular to protect them from any propaganda in favour of homosexuality, bisexuality or polygamy. what's more natural about children? well, no, it is said that it is "discrimination", and the whole union is mobilizing against poor lithuania, "guilty" of prohibiting proselytism and encouraging family values. what is even more astonishing is that the epp group, which claims to be christian-democratic and to have a certain number of moral values, has co-signed this absurdity which was initiated by the left. as usual, the rights of the child are not being met by the pressure of certain lobbies. it must be said that in their time some members of this parliament advocated paedophilia in the name of freedom for all and the right of every person, no matter how young, to sexuality. this resolution is not only criminal, it is disgusting!
in writing. i supported the resolution condemning the lithuanian law on the protection of minors from the harmful effects of public information, which aims to ban all information on homosexuality from the moment it is accessible to minors. this law is in complete contravention of european laws, especially those on the fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation, with a largely homophobic content, and also poses as an obstacle to freedom of expression. it has been widely condemned by ngos, including the ilga (international lesbian and gay association) and amnesty international, as well as the council of europe. we must offer young people the vision of a society that is open to diversity and based on the principle of respect for others, whatever their differences. the european commission, the guardian of the treaties, will have to show responsibility and initiate infringement proceedings against lithuania if this decision is to be upheld. with this vote we are calling on lithuanian parliamentarians to pull themselves together and reject this text, which means a return to a past which i for my part reject.
in writing. when a policy leads farmers to suicide, when it leads men to voluntarily destroy the fruit of their labor because it is no worse than what this policy offers them, it is time to change it. the liberalization of agriculture in general and of the dairy sector in particular is a disaster. how many times must i repeat here that because it feeds people, because it allows landscapes to be beautified and people to live in rural areas, agriculture cannot be considered an economic activity like any other. foodstuffs are not products to be speculated on in markets that are not connected with reality. it is absurd to encourage the importation of products which do not even meet the quality standards imposed on our farmers. it is scandalous to leave these same farmers in the hands of the processors and the predators of the big purchasing centres, who profit at the expense of both the producers and the consumers. the vague or shy proposals in the text are neither sufficient nor fully satisfactory, but they do have the merit of being there. that is why we voted for it.
in writing. the situation on the milk market has deteriorated considerably over the last 12 months: the price of milk has fallen by 30% in one year, the largest decline in 20 years. it is therefore urgent to introduce new forms of regulation at european level so that the dairy sector is not dependent on market rules alone but can cope with them. the current instability of producers' incomes does not allow an optimal allocation of the resources essential for future investments in the sector. the european commission must therefore facilitate contractual relations within the agri-food chain in order to balance relations between the various players in the sector, stabilise markets and prevent market risks. it must also encourage better organisation of the supply chains. in addition, it should be examined whether the increase in milk quotas could have a positive impact on producer prices. now is the time for europe to act. we can't wait any longer. otherwise we risk suffering lasting damage to the european dairy sector and depriving our fragile rural areas of their economic lungs.
in writing. the milk strike is gaining momentum in our countries, with its strong images of milk spilled in the fields. the european parliament took a position on the concerns of milk producers. in this context, i voted in favour of the creation of a €600 million fund in the 2010 eu budget to help milk producers, who are currently experiencing a deep and unprecedented crisis in their sector, struggling with the laws of supply and demand in the global milk market. with my socialist colleagues we also tabled an amendment calling for the suspension of milk quotas as they are currently provided for, in order to raise prices. we should also adopt short-term measures to supplement the market management measures already taken, which have proved ineffective in the face of price volatility.
in writing. the dairy sector is in peril. for months now, milk producers have been producing at a loss, while the price of milk has not fallen for consumers, to the benefit of the large retailers. the bankruptcy threatens thousands of small french producers. the general milk strike, the last chance to make itself heard and not die in general indifference, is spreading in many european countries, endangering, in correlation, many jobs in the other sectors of the dairy sector. it is urgent to find effective solutions for this key sector of french and european agriculture and to change the policy radically, because let us be clear: the european commission, the council, the european parliament and their ultra-liberalism are the only ones responsible for this tragedy. the principle of quotas must be maintained after 2015; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quotas are reduced. apply price-fixing based on the actual costs borne by the independent producers; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. the farmers are waiting for a strong gesture.
in writing. europe will not be able, at least in the near future, to break free from its external dependence on energy supplies. it is true that to alleviate these constraints we must diversify our dependencies, both from the point of view of energy sources and from that of the supplier countries. but frankly, i do not see the point in a move which seems to be motivated more by hostility to russia than by energy concerns, of putting ourselves under the thumb of turkey, the point of passage for your famous nabucco gas pipeline, which is systematically favoured over other projects. this country would have considerable leverage. and as regards desertec, i also see no reason to depend on what is, for the moment, a project of a private initiative. in fact, i think it is contradictory to want to have a centralised energy policy in the hands of the commission at the same time as handing over the european energy sector to private actors, which leads to higher prices and reduced benefits, and which has a negative influence on energy choices. and above all, i believe that energy is too important to be left to the commission officials or to the profit-making appetites of a few firms.
chairman of the budg committee. mr president, as regards the two reports on the use of the globalisation adjustment fund for the telecommunications industry in germany and, on the other hand, the solidarity fund for the tragedy in italy in the abruzzi, the committee on budgets adopted the four reports at the beginning of the week, but not in time for the translations to be available. i simply wanted to correct what you said: these reports were adopted in committee. there's no legal obstacle to that. they were even adopted unanimously.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, on behalf of the ppe group, i ask parliament to decide on withdrawing from the debate on freedom of the press in italy and then voting on a resolution on the same subject. anyone in good faith knows that my group, the epp, is deeply committed to defending freedom of expression and freedom of the press. (protests) (applause) dear friends, please respect the freedom of speech. i have always respected it in this parliament and i have always respected my fellow citizens at the level of parliament. (applause) that is why we have done everything we can to ensure that the charter of fundamental rights acquires binding force with the treaty of lisbon. but the debate scheduled for tomorrow is only about one country and does not concern the question - on which we are prepared to have a substantive debate - of freedom of the press in europe. the epp does not accept that this parliament should become a place for settling political and purely national accounts, which we would see tomorrow if this debate were to continue. (protests) (applause) yes, therefore, to defending freedom of the press in europe, but not to exploiting our parliament for purely partisan and national purposes. i will also take up tomorrow, you will see, what president napolitano said, who is a man i respect very much because i have worked with him a lot, but i will tell you this tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are a parliament which has a right to vote and a responsibility to ensure that we also make funds available for abruzzo as soon as possible. we are also a parliament with responsibilities: when we discuss something, we must then vote on a resolution so that this discussion also has meaning. that is why we are in favour of adopting a resolution afterwards. (applause from the centre)
mr president, we would like to see the following sentence element added to point a: 'as well as on the developing countries', so that this reads 'to analyse and evaluate the extent of the social, economic and financial crisis, its impact on the union and its member states, as well as on the developing countries'.
mr president, we also want to include a reference to ‘development cooperation’ so the sentence reads: ‘to analyse and evaluate the current implementation of community legislation in all the areas concerned, including development cooperation’. we thought that the developing countries’ point of view was not reflected within the mandate.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting a loud and massive 'yes' last friday, the irish people not only said 'yes' to the lisbon treaty, but they also said 'yes' to a europe perceived as an area of solidarity and common values. they expressed their deep commitment to a europe which influences globalisation without being affected by it, to a europe which shares with its partners its choice of society, its choice of a social market economy. on behalf of the epp group, i welcome this vote which shows that when a people is consulted on real issues, such as the principle of membership of the european union, they answer the question put to them and they do so with conviction. on friday our irish friends answered the question: 'are you in favour of the treaty of lisbon and, if not, are you prepared to question your country's membership of the union?' they answered that question with a resounding yes. this shows only one thing: that europe is perceived for what it is, namely a protective element, a zone of stability, peace and a reassuring rule of law. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the irish vote will have a major impact on the way we build europe, especially in the months ahead, as it demonstrates the deep commitment of our peoples to the values which europe is supposed to embody. the irish vote encourages us in our european action and at the same time binds us. it encourages us, because this is the first time in a long time that a european people has expressed with such force its willingness to participate in the european adventure despite, or rather because of, the crisis. but it also binds us in that we must meet the demand for solidarity which was largely the motivation for the irish 'yes'. the lisbon treaty will enable us to do just that, as far as the european institutions are concerned. this treaty will make europe more effective by making the often paralysing exception of unanimity the rule and the majority the rule. it will also make it more identifiable by creating a permanent presidency of the council instead of the current rotating presidency and it will give more weight to our high representative for foreign affairs. europe must have a face, whether it is for our citizens or for our international partners. and finally, the lisbon treaty will make europe more democratic by giving a much greater weight to this parliament, but also by giving national parliaments and citizens a greater say in european affairs. the irish were the last european people to express a positive opinion on the lisbon treaty on friday. all the other countries have already done so, either directly or through their respective parliaments, including poland and the czech republic. i therefore ask the presidents of these two countries to proceed without delay to the formal signing of the treaty in order to allow the 27 to move forward and implement it by early 2010 at the latest. and i want to say in particular to president klaus that the 67% irish vote must motivate him to sign this treaty when the time comes. and on behalf of the epp i ask him to behave - and i have no doubt about it - in a responsible manner. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for europe to put institutional questions aside and concentrate on the real issues facing the 500 million europeans: the social market economy, energy, climate, security. i thank mr reinfeldt and mr barroso for their proposals. you can count on the epp to get the job done fast enough.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we must draw clear lessons from what has happened in ireland. the irish voted, and guy verhofstadt is right, with 67 per cent - a large majority - because reality has imposed a clear vision. the reality of the crisis, first, where they felt that europe was necessary for them. but they also felt that this vote implied, in fact, and this, joseph daul said and he's right that they were either saying yes or they were entering an exit process. what we must understand, then, is that referenda in europe only make sense if they have consequences. if it's a game, a mood, you can say no, but it'll go on as before. so we react to his mood. and i think we will have to continue the debate on europe. we must have a european referendum, where all europeans vote by qualified majority, and those who say no will have to say whether they respect the vote and stay in, or whether they leave. if the british think that this remark is directed at them, they are not wrong. because we must stop having a europe that can always be blackmailed. a democratic space cannot live with blackmail, and if we cannot solve this problem, i believe that the european democratic space will not work. the second thing to understand with lucidity is the situation we are in. guy verhofstadt said a thing or two about that. but what scares me is that, for mr barroso, there was a public debate. we didn't win, we lost, that's life. but there was a real public debate. then there was a confrontation. you've made it, the majority! martin schulz, you can't always point the finger at other people. if all the socialists had voted with us against mr barroso, he would not have had a majority. this too must be said, not just this or that. that's life, that's the way it is. yes, that's right, martin, you're always saying "the others, the others". it is also necessary, sometimes, for the social democrats to learn to take responsibility for defeats. without that, we'll never win. i would now like to say something about the process. and i disagree with you on that, mr. reinfeldt. we are going to have a president of the european council. i don't want this to be a coup. all of a sudden, at the last minute, you're gonna propose to someone. in a week, the decision will have been made. i think that europe has the right to have a public debate, that public opinion in all countries should have the right to express its opinion on your proposals. i believe that we have the right to have a public debate, whether it is mr blair, mr balkenende, mr jean-claude juncker or mr guy verhofstadt. it should not be the governments who decide on the president of europe at the last moment. why do i say that? because everyone knows that today public opinion is not in favour of mr blair. because everyone knows that it is unacceptable that jean-claude juncker should have no chance because mrs merkel and mr sarkozy are simply against it. this is not a democratic public debate. we need to put everything on the table and then you can decide. the same applies to the high representative. put the proposals on the table. i'll tell you what. mr barroso is right, mr verhofstadt is right. you made us elect mr barroso by saying there was an emergency. and now you're going to have a lame-duck commission that's going to follow things until a decision is possible. it's up to the czechs. but there's something else. we proposed extending the whole commission, including mr barroso, precisely so that it could conduct the negotiations full time for copenhagen. i think it is unacceptable not to start the commission process right away, putting names on the table. and mr verhofstadt has made the right proposal: if the czechs do not vote, well, the czechs will not have a commissioner, because the treaty of nice requires a reduction in the number of commissioners. and if the czechs decide before the end, things will happen within the framework of the lisbon treaty and they will have a commissioner. we need to get everything on the table. in conclusion, i would just like to say one thing. we will have to continue the debate after the treaty of lisbon. the lisbon treaty is not the end of the story. the constitutionalisation of europe cannot stop with the treaty of lisbon. if we do not have the strength to continue this debate once the treaty of lisbon is in place, i believe we will miss a great date in history, the date of europe.
mr president, one very simple thing is going to happen to our european parliament, with the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, and that is that we are going to have 18 additional meps from 12 european union states. we had been proactive because in march of this year the european parliament had asked all the states to anticipate this result by declaring as the method of appointment that the elections of 7 june would be the democratic basis for sending these 18 additional members. some states have done so, such as spain and your country, madam president-in-office. other countries, who say they are very happy - as i am - with the result of the irish referendum and are very anxious to see the lisbon treaty implemented, have still not done what is their duty and what is only their own wish, namely to make this method of designation known. can we count on you, madam president-in-office, to ask each member state at the european council on 29 and 30 october to make known the methods of appointing these additional members from lisbon? the second thing that really shocks me is that everyone talks about the great ambitions of the lisbon treaty, but it specifically obliges us to do one very simple thing: equality between men and women. this is a binding objective of the charter of fundamental rights of the lisbon treaty. i have heard that the two remaining posts, the high representative, the vice-president of the commission and the president of the council, are filled by men. you are a country, sweden, quite exemplary in this matter. i expect you to take it very, very seriously. it is not possible that the four major european positions of responsibility should be filled by men only. it is unworthy of the lisbon treaty, it is unworthy of europe. i am counting on you to uphold equality between men and women, even in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sure i will repeat what has already been said and at any rate be satisfied with the result of the irish vote on the lisbon treaty. i would simply like to draw the attention of those colleagues who remain to the reasons for the change, because we are satisfied with the yes and, a year ago, there was a no. what's changed? the text? very little. the context? that's the problem. we can discuss institutional matters here. what the citizens expect is first and foremost political responses from europe. that is the analysis we must make of this double vote. there's more than one. there are two of them. no first, yes later. the irish have said that they need europe in the crisis, and this is to be emphasized very strongly, because they are asking europe to protect them, and this is important. i will repeat what many of my colleagues have said. i think we should move fast now. so we turn to the swedish presidency of the council, we turn to the commission. if we are to respond to the irish people's demands, we must provide concrete answers. economic crisis: is europe capable of boosting growth at european level? social crisis: is europe capable of having an employment policy? these are the issues which, for me, are at the heart of the debate. and i am pleased with another thing that the treaty of lisbon has brought. the fact is that parliament will have more power and, in the political debate, i think it has a vital role to play: to show that there are different possible choices, to debate these choices. but now, if this debate is to be democratic, if europe is to be able to give answers, we must appoint a commission quickly, ensure that ratification is swift at the level of the czechs and ensure that europe is back on the path of growth and hope.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the irish people have made a clear choice to place themselves at the heart of europe by approving the treaty of lisbon by a very large majority. as the benjamin of the french meps, i welcome this choice which finally allows us to address the concrete concerns of our citizens. i would like to make two comments. the first is that no one should overlook the fact that it was the crisis that made the irish largely euro-friendly. and so this irish 'yes' reflects a real need for europe, a political europe that protects and offers, a europe that is able to respond to crises and that provides its citizens with the security they demand. secondly, the failure of the first referendum in ireland should serve as an example and a lesson for us. we cannot, whenever we want to move europe forward, be at the mercy of inadequate procedures in a europe of 27. my dear colleagues, under the present system, a member state may in the end have a better interest in saying no to a treaty than in saying yes. this 'no' bonus must encourage us to set up a genuine procedure at community level in order to avoid nationalising the debate. today the european dynamic is back in motion and we, the members of the european parliament, will finally have our hands on such sensitive issues as the dairy crisis or the gas crisis last winter. and let me just draw the attention of my colleagues and friends in parliament to the only issue in the 2010 community budget, namely the financing of the second tranche of the european recovery plan of two billion euros. i am one of those who believe that we must ensure that this plan is not financed exclusively through agricultural credits, because that would be a bad signal to our farmers in a crisis situation and would also pose a risk to the future of our food security and our territories. in conclusion, i would like to thank our irish friends once again and to extend to them my warmest and warmest congratulations on this clearly european choice. i now call on our polish and czech friends to mobilise so that europe has this toolbox to meet the challenges of globalisation in the coming decades.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, who are we kidding? the rather contemptuous satisfaction shown here at the 'yes' that has been snatched from the irish people after months of harassment, of a campaign of blame, of lies and half-truths, is a disgrace to democracy and an insult to the will of the people. in the field of justice, confessions obtained by coercion are null and void: the same should apply to these rigged ratifications where there can be only one possible response, which we are prepared to obtain by having citizens vote and re-vote ad nauseam when we do not "zap" them outright by going through parliamentary channels. the only thing left now is vaclav klaus, president of the czech republic, to try to resist the liberticidal text of the treaty of lisbon. all the patriots of europe, all those who reject the european superstate, all those who believe that the peoples have the right to determine their own future, must show their support for it today and help it to withstand the pressures it is under and will be under even more in the near future.
the european union is therefore calling for a strong response to the worrying developments in the political and security situation in guinea. as you know, on 28 september 2009, the guinean government troops bloodily crushed a peaceful protest of all opposition parties, killing 157 people and injuring more than a thousand, including particularly heinous rapes and mutilations. the republic of guinea is a country that has only known two dictatorial regimes since its independence in 1958. it's time this vicious cycle stopped. the european union, its member states and its institutions had already condemned the coup d'état of moussa dadis camara on 28 december 2008. as the procedure required, the council then used article 96 of the cotonou agreements to draw up with the guinean authorities a roadmap intended to guide the democratic transition. this list of measures included the organisation of free and transparent elections within a year and the commitment that cndd members, notably moussa dadis camara, would not stand in these elections. however, captain camara's decision to postpone the election to spring 2010 and his refusal to discuss his candidacy for the guinean presidency foreshadowed the current escalation. the demonstration that was crushed in blood on 28 september was precisely intended to demand that the junta keep its promises. the reaction of the ruling power in conakry clearly shows its intentions: to eliminate any form of democratic opposition in order to remain in power. in response, the international community unanimously condemned these abuses and the guinean regime. the commission has recently, and rightly so, refused to vote in favour of the fisheries agreement between the european union and guinea, outraged by these massacres. today, in the light of recent events, the european parliament wants to know what decisions the council intends to take in the face of this situation. firstly, does the council intend to push for the creation of an international commission of inquiry into the events of 28 september? what measures does the council intend to take to ensure that the commitments of the cndd, namely the holding of free and fair elections as soon as possible, are respected without the participation of president moussa dadis camara or any other member of the cndd? in view of article 96 of the cotonou agreement, what measures does the council intend to take against the guinean junta? finally, what concrete commitments has the council made to support the various initiatives undertaken by ecowas, the au and the international action group on guinea?
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot remain silent in the face of the dramatic events that have taken place in guinea over the past week. the violence against opponents, especially women, is truly shocking and unacceptable. i would like to express my support for the victims and their families, many of whom are still waiting for the return of the remains of their loved ones, confiscated by the junta in order to cover up the traces of a real massacre. in addition to today's interventions at the initiative of the council and the commission, the events in parliament allow us to react to these abuses and to send a strong signal to the guinean government by rejecting the report on the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea, which will be put to our vote at the next plenary session. the committee on development and cooperation had already unanimously delivered a negative opinion on the fisheries agreement between the european union and guinea last september, expressing doubts about the use of the funds allocated by the european union. in addition to the fact that it seems inadequate to allocate funds according to the catches made by european vessels without taking into account either fisheries resources or the effects on local populations, recent events make us fear that they will be used for military purposes against the guinean population. ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament cannot give a favourable opinion on the fisheries agreements with guinea, even though the wounds of the victims are still open. it would send a bad signal to the guinean government, it would be a scandal that i cannot resolve.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a new member of parliament, like many others here, i was struck by the importance given to human rights in the speeches given in this house, and particularly in those of our president buzek. i fully endorse it because if i am here, if i have led a list in the european elections in france, it is primarily because i am an activist in associations and, precisely, a human rights activist. i am therefore not indifferent to the events in guinea, because it was human rights activists, and more generally representatives of civil society, who were arrested, raped when they were women, and massacred on 28 december last: more than 150 people were shot dead, more than 1 250 people were injured - as you have told us, madam minister - on that one day alone. the repression continued in the days that followed, and is still going on, as these people - it was also said - came peacefully to remind mr camara of his own commitments. there is no doubt, according to the testimonies that are coming in, that it was those close to the government, contrary to the statements made by the captain, who perpetrated these abuses. the situation there is confusing, but civil society organizations, grouped together in the national council of civil society organizations of guinea, are calling for help from the international community. in recent months, this national council has organized a broad process for the guinean people, which is exemplary in these african countries, building on the commitments made by mr camara. the news we're getting from guinea is alarming. we cannot be satisfied with speeches here in the european parliament. this debate is taking place at our request, at the request of the european united left/nordic green left, but we must go further. we demand that the repression of the demonstration be expressly condemned. you spoke to us about targeted sanctions, madam minister. could you tell us more? as regards the immediate cessation of the persecution, the release of all those arrested and the establishment of an international commission of inquiry into these events, i believe, madam minister, that we are on the right track. but, again, could you tell us more? you also told us that all aid was frozen except for humanitarian and food aid. this seems to us to be the minimum, but how can we actually support the democratic transition? we want a resolution to be voted at the next strasbourg session so that the european parliament does not stop at speeches but takes action, as it did last january. i repeat, this is an emergency. local organizations warn us of the risk of ethnic conflict. let's not wait for another rwanda to react, human rights must be defended in africa as elsewhere around the world.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the oral question we are debating tonight reveals, as many have said, the existence of a real legal vacuum which leaves passengers without security in the event of the bankruptcy of an airline. while european legislation protects those who have bought their tickets as part of a package, it does not protect those who buy their tickets on the internet. as said el khadraoui said, consumer habits have changed with the development of the internet and the legislator must keep up with this evolution in order to protect our fellow european citizens. a large number of travellers now buy their airline tickets online. given that low-cost airlines sell their tickets almost exclusively online, young people and people with the lowest incomes are particularly affected by this phenomenon. it is unacceptable that these passengers have no recourse if the company from which they bought their ticket goes bankrupt. this is all the more so as the air transport sector has been experiencing an unprecedented crisis in recent months, which has led to a sharp decline in the number of flights. we all know that this crisis is bigger than the one that hit the industry after 9/11, and that many companies went bankrupt. it is therefore necessary that the european commission - and i know, mr vice-president, that you are aware of this - should propose, as soon as possible, real solutions to protect passengers in the event of the company on which they were to fly going bankrupt, regardless of the method of booking tickets.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if i have asked to speak on behalf of the ppe group in this debate on freedom of the press in italy, it is primarily to denounce the unfortunate use of this european forum to deal with the national debate. it is also to denounce an unfair and bad faith trial against the government of a european state where the rule of law is applied as rigorously as in the rest of europe. on the first point, i would refer to the president of the italian republic, whom i quoted yesterday and who said last week: 'the european parliament - i quote him - cannot be a sounding board for the political conflicts and polemics which are taking place in the member states or in their national parliaments.' i would also like to quote the president of the italian republic: 'the european parliament cannot be a sort of appeal body for the decisions of national parliaments or the behaviour of national governments.' it is not an insult to president napolitano, who is a friend, to point out that he does not share the same political line as prime minister berlusconi or mine and that of the group i represent. (mr schulz shouts) respect the freedom of speech, mr schulz! this morning, i want freedom of speech and freedom of the press respected! (interruption by mr schulz) the troublemakers, we know them, it doesn't bother me, i'm not angry. mr president, i simply ask that you allow me to speak. that is not how we will have a debate. but these words express in clearer terms the respect which must be shown for our democratic institutions, whether national or european. the debate we are having this morning has nothing to do with the real reason for the european parliament. what is it, exactly? are italian members of parliament prevented from holding a debate on freedom of the press or any other subject in their own national parliaments? i said no. are italian citizens prevented from expressing their disapproval of this or that law? no, i'm not going. are the italian courts prevented from stating the law? no, we saw him. is the european court of justice incapable of sanctioning an italian law which is contrary to the european treaties? no, i'm not going. the answer to all these questions is, of course, no. in these circumstances, the debate which is being held in this chamber is nothing more or less than a political and partisan manoeuvre designed to embarrass a political opponent. contrary to what some of our colleagues claim, the italian republic is functioning as it should in europe, in a democratic manner and in accordance with the rule of law. to claim otherwise is to ignore reality, it is not to abuse anyone. the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is not meant to become a clearing house for national political rivalries. this is not a place to try to undermine the credibility of a government which is politically accountable to its own citizens and that is why there are elections. thank you for your attention.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of the press and information is a fundamental and inalienable right, because it is essential to human development. this is what article 10 of the european convention on human rights on pluralism and article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union on freedom of expression recognise, as you have said, mrs reding. it is in the light of both european law and the recommendations of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and the osce on freedom of the media that our parliament is justified in considering that the italian president of the council, who is responsible for a state which is a founder of the european community, is violating the principles of freedom and pluralism of the press in several ways. it has turned common public goods, such as information and culture, into genuine commodities for profit by building a media empire of several television and radio stations, publishing houses, advertising agencies, insurance companies and banks. in addition, the italian president of the council influences the choice of appointments in the public sector media. this situation of quasi-monopoly on information and its financing allows it to dominate, direct and direct the majority of the audiovisual media and publishing, but also their content, for its own profit. such a system of thought police is incompatible with the necessary democratic confrontation which only a real pluralism of the press and media can allow. i would add that, since the same man and his family hold both political and media power, we are faced with a clear conflict of interest incompatible with a major democracy, a modern, living democracy, through active citizenship. in addition, mr berlusconi claims to limit the publication of judicial information, prosecutes and threatens journalists who criticize him, prosecutes italian newspapers such as la repubblica, unità and the italian bishops' daily l'avenire. and european newspapers are also threatened, including the french magazine le nouvel observateur. finally, the independent print media is strangled financially in two ways: by the so-called tremonti decree of 6 august 2008, which reduces public support for independent newspapers, and by the cuts in advertising budgets. the berlusconi thought police are now also targeting the constitutional court, the magistrates, the federation of independent journalists, and even parliament itself, which it is disregarding. in these circumstances, if we in all the seats of this house are willing to defend in action what are called the democratic values of the european union, then we must issue a solemn warning and, commissioner, enforce european law as you have stated and say with the thousands of italian intellectuals, creators and journalists that freedom of information and freedom to be informed must be respected unconditionally in italy as in the whole of the european union. that is why i am submitting to this house the proposal to set up a european observatory on media and press pluralism. it would ensure that the principle of separation of powers between political and media authorities is respected throughout the union, that a maximum concentration threshold is established in the media, and that the rights of journalists to obtain information and the rights of independent newspapers to publish are respected. it would link our parliament with national parliaments, with publishers and producers, with the associations of journalists, readers and viewers. this observatory could prepare a draft directive against concentration and for pluralism. that would be a way, mr president, of making democracy live in our europe.
madam president, i would like to say quickly that the subject of this debate - and the speeches by mrs reding and mr daul have shown this clearly - is our concept of europe. it is not a member state that we are talking about, it is whether we are applying the treaties, whether we are applying the european convention on human rights signed in rome in 1950, whether we are applying article 6 of the treaty. mr. daul, when you quote mr. napolitano, quote him in full. the president of the italian republic indicated that there were legal remedies and referred in his speech to article 7 of the treaties. this article now allows us to deal with the question of the risk of human rights violations in a member state in a legal and unemotional way. today italy, tomorrow another one. the last and most important thing is that in every country in the world, dictators and people who want to violate human rights take refuge behind sovereignty. for me, europe is the continent of the universality of human rights. if we do not accept that we, who are all members of the same parliament, have the right and the duty to see what is happening in one of the member states, how are we going to tell dictatorships in distant countries that we are defending a universal concept, so important in particular for defending women's rights?
madam president, i have a very different point to raise which concerns the whole of parliament: on tuesday 18 september, at 11 p.m., mrs niebler was brutally attacked as she left the european parliament and was thrown to the ground. she had her phone stolen, her money, her credit cards, all her papers. what's worse, a belgian restaurateur came to his rescue and called the ambulance and the police. half an hour later, the ambulance arrived to treat mrs. niebler. i'm all right. an hour and a half later, the police still hadn't come. we're still waiting for him. i therefore ask the president to intervene here in parliament, because this is now the third attack on which the police have not taken action. security is not assured in this city... (applause)... and the responses of the authorities are not assured either. i ask that there be a very strong intervention by the president of parliament to get an answer on this attack. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. it is extremely difficult for a member of the european parliament to see a democracy like italy being singled out as this debate wishes to do. freedom of the press is a fundamental freedom guaranteed by the italian constitution in its article 21. there are private and public newspapers in italy reflecting all political sensitivities. out of respect for the thousands of people who suffer oppression and lack of freedom of expression in many states of the world, it is indecent to call the italian regime a freedom-killing regime. furthermore, one of the most essential features of any rule of law is to offer access to the courts to every citizen who feels wronged. the fact that a president of the republic slandered in national newspapers has chosen the legal route to attack his critics, rather than the parallel routes typical of undemocratic regimes, confirms the good health of italian democracy. finally, it is essential to remember that the european parliament must not become a forum for settling national controversies which have no relation to community competence. national issues must be settled at the national level!
in writing. the principle of non bis in idem - the same person cannot be tried twice for the same facts - is a fundamental principle of law in a democracy. i myself am a victim in france of its violation, still being prosecuted on the orders of the government in a case where i was nevertheless totally acquitted by the court of cassation. i owe this in particular to the failure of mrs wallis, the rapporteur on my immunity, who accepted all the devices to remove me from the protection to which i was entitled, if the rules of justice, morality and the case law of this parliament were followed. but mrs weber's report is not intended to avoid such double prosecutions. there is a european convention for this purpose dating from 2000 which seems to be working to the satisfaction of practitioners and in compliance with the rule of law. no, the weber report is essentially aimed at giving eurojust, which many would like to see transformed into a european prosecutor's office, powers of control and decision-making over national courts. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. the world is facing a contradiction that will be difficult to resolve. on the one hand, the economic crisis and its social consequences require urgent action to restore job-creating growth. that was the agenda of the g20 in pittsburgh. on the other hand, and this will be the challenge of the copenhagen conference, it is equally urgent to combat climate change by reducing energy consumption. in other words, we have to restart the machine and make it less polluting. and we cannot solve these questions one after the other, there is urgency in both areas. urgency to relaunch the activity and urgency to limit the consequences of the activity. at the g20 yesterday, at the climate conference tomorrow, the european union must find the narrow path between two equally formidable threats. the european institutions must be set up as soon as possible within the framework of the treaty of lisbon adopted by the 27 countries of the union. by playing the clock to delay this moment, the czech president, mr klaus, is taking on a heavy responsibility before the 500 million citizens of the union.
in writing. − the verts/ale group voted in favour of the resolution on the g20 for several reasons, among which: – by referring to the need to develop new indicators which go beyond gdp, the ep gives a clear signal that ‘economic recovery’ must not be based on a ‘business as usual approach’, which is in line with our request to develop a ‘green new deal’; – the resolution insists on the need to tackle global imbalances, especially exchange rate imbalances and commodity price volatility within a multilateral framework; – the resolution sends a good signal towards the setting-up of a tax on financial transactions, which was never the case until now; – as regards the financial crisis, the ep makes a strong statement on international coordination that should aim to avoid regulatory arbitrage. it also stresses that the upgrading of prudential rules within the context of the g20 consists of a ‘minimum harmonisation’ approach that must not prevent the eu from applying higher standards; – as regards supervision of the financial sectors, the ep has made a significant move towards an enhanced and more centralised approach on financial market supervision, with the setting-up of a single financial supervisory authority being a final objective.
in writing. the delegation of elected representatives of the democratic movement (adle - france) welcomes the adoption of the resolution on the conclusions of the g20. the european parliament reaffirms its support for the following: - the eu must have a system of financial supervision and a single financial authority; - it is necessary to move towards long-term fiscal stability, so as not to harm future generations; - the immediate priorities must be to create jobs and protect citizens from the impact of the crisis. we voted in favour of amendments nos 5, 8, 11, 12 and 13 and regret that the european parliament has not gone further in the areas of accounting transparency, the fight against tax havens and environmental commitments (the 'new green deal'). we also reiterate our commitment to a financial transaction tax on the tobin tax model. in this connection, we invite the european parliament to start thinking about the definition of such a tax.
in writing. we voted against the g20 resolution for a good reason: at no point does it challenge the global financial system that caused the crisis. he even believes that even more globalisation, even more liberalisation, is needed, with the pseudo-guard of multilateral institutions or bodies destined to become a world government. but to refuse to change the system is to guarantee the failure of the few useful or necessary measures proposed elsewhere. trying to save the system as it is today, with markets increasingly disconnected from the real economy, at all costs, is preparing for further crises, and ensuring that the stated objectives of job creation will not be achieved. economics is not an end in itself: it is only a means to political ends, to the progress of societies and to human development. as long as you yield to its alleged imperatives and abdicate to the supposedly immutable laws of the market, you will solve no problem.
in writing. i would like to explain, on behalf of the alde group, why we abstained on the green amendment on a tobin tax. our group has decided to set up a working party on this issue in order to clarify the purpose and the modalities of this tax. then, with the facts in hand, the political groups will be able to agree on a common approach to this issue, which will be of equal significance to all and which can be defended in the appropriate international bodies.
in writing. aid to developing countries is a duty which the european union must not shy away from. the current economic and financial crisis has given a new dimension to globalisation. the idea of a financial transaction tax was beneficial: president sarkozy made it one of his priorities. europe would have given the impulse and the world would have followed. equity must be the basis of the new sound functioning of global finance. i regret the rejection of the strieffler-ponga amendment, which proposed a financial transaction tax to be added to oda so that the least developed countries could benefit from it. it is true that our economies and financial systems would have been subject to greater fiscal pressure, but the european union would then have been the initiator of a great movement of global solidarity. it is to be hoped that the resolution adopted here will encourage the union to honour its commitments and help developing countries to keep pace with globalisation.
mr president, my speech is about monday's agenda. the provisional agenda, before the document on which we are to vote was received, provided, i believe, for a debate on three cases of parliamentary immunity. these cases of parliamentary immunity are extremely important because they can affect the freedom of exercise of a member who is subject to political hostility from the government or political hostility from the judiciary, or political hostility from the judiciary instrumentalized by the government, through prosecutors. i note that these questions have disappeared from the debate and i think that is extremely regrettable. all that remains is a vote without debate on a report by mrs wallis on the immunity of mr marek siwiec. this vote without debate does not allow for speeches and therefore does not allow the member concerned to speak before his peers, before the members we are. i think that's extremely unfortunate. i would like to end by mentioning briefly the report by our colleague, mr speroni, which was adopted by a very large majority. i believe that parliament is practically unanimous in its attitude to the french authorities who denied our former colleague, mr marchiani, the protection of his immunity in connection with wiretapping, whereas this is guaranteed to national parliamentarians. i would like to know what has happened to the recommendations in mr speroni's report and in particular to the complaint we were to lodge with the court of justice of the european communities.
mr president, my speech is about the deterioration of working conditions in europe. today, nearly half the world's workers earn less than two dollars a day. 12.3 million people are still enslaved and over 200 million children are forced to work. in europe, the number of working poor is increasing day by day and the international labour organisation estimates that 160,000 people die each year from lack of prevention. in this context, i would like to stress our responsibility towards all those who are deprived of employment and social rights, who work in degrading conditions, those millions of workers who suffer morally and physically, sometimes to the point of suicide, or who suffer from cancer or chronic diseases due to their working conditions. it is time to get out of the religion of "working more", out of the race for profit, into the short-term competition. the right to decent work and the strengthening of the right to work must be at the top of the union's priorities in the next ten years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two member states - france and the united kingdom - have announced their intention to send refugees to afghanistan who had come to europe to try to save their lives. i believe we cannot stand idly by in the face of this very serious threat to their survival. the guardian, a british daily newspaper, reported last october that afghan refugees who were deported from australia were killed upon arrival in their country. i think that this is absolutely contrary to all our international commitments. the european commission itself said in an action plan of june 2008 that legitimate measures to reduce illegal immigration should not have the effect of preventing refugees from accessing protection in the european union, and the united nations high commissioner for refugees warned the european union against any challenge to the geneva convention and other forms of complementary protection that should lead to the abandonment of deporting afghan refugees to afghanistan. many members from four different groups have signed an appeal to that effect. i ask you, mr president, to intervene with the european commission, with britain and france, and our house, our house, must take up this matter to prevent this crime against the right of asylum from being committed.
mr president, following the dismantling of the calais jungle camp at the end of september, i would like to denounce the organization by france and the united kingdom of forced returns to afghanistan, a country in a state of general chaos. like my colleague harlem désir earlier, i also call on the european commission to put pressure on the member states to stop putting the lives of these people in serious danger by forcibly returning them to afghanistan. we know that these migrants are not able to apply for asylum in france because of dublin ii, because they risk being sent back to greece or italy, where the conditions of detention are unacceptable and the chances of their asylum application being successful are very slim. the dismantling of the jungle has only added to the trauma of these migrants in need of protection. contrary to the objectives set by the french authorities, the vulnerability of these migrants has been increased and they are even more likely to be handed over to human traffickers who, in the end, are not worried at all. now more than ever, we must remember that the credibility of an asylum system is compromised if it fails to protect those in need of protection.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the arrest of mohammad othman, 33, a palestinian human rights activist and supporter of the non-violent civil campaign to boycott investment and sanctions. mohammad othman was arrested on september 22 by israeli authorities. since then, he has been repeatedly detained by the israeli army. a military judge is due to review his detention on tuesday, october 20, which is tomorrow. mr president, i ask you to intervene on behalf of the european parliament to secure the release of this human rights activist, whose only crime is a crime of opinion. this week we're going to award the sakharov prize. we cannot, unfortunately, give the sakharov prize to all human rights activists, but at least we support them when their freedom is threatened.
madam president, like many of my colleagues, i fully support mr coelho's report and i thank him very much for the excellent work he has done. from the outset, the reason for the abolition of internal border controls, the sine qua non of the abolition of internal border controls, was the existence of compensatory measures to avoid the much feared security deficit. they are the basis of the mutual trust which is essential for the proper functioning of schengen cooperation. it is therefore only with an effective and transparent evaluation mechanism of the application of the schengen acquis that we can maintain this trust and therefore a very high level of cooperation between the states. the stakes are therefore high and parliament's role in creating this new mechanism must be commensurate with the stakes. it will therefore have to be adopted by codecision, at least as regards the first pillar, if this text is to be adopted before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. moreover, while it is certainly necessary to draw the consequences of the integration of the schengen acquis into community and union law, the commission should not be entrusted with the management of this evaluation alone. states must be more closely involved in this evaluation mechanism. otherwise, the mutual trust could be eroded. it is the internal security of our states that is at stake. when one state fails to apply this acquis correctly, all the other states suffer the consequences. finally, in terms of efficiency, it does not seem to me appropriate to provide for two separate mechanisms for each of the two evaluation phases, namely the pre-application control and the application of the acquis by the schengen states. i therefore join carlos coelho in asking the commission to withdraw this proposal and to present a new one which takes greater account of the philosophy of the acquis and the role of the states in assessing its application.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i also want to thank mr simon busuttil very much for his excellent report. the six third countries - antigua and barbuda, the bahamas, barbados, mauritius, saint christopher and nevis and the seychelles - were transferred from the negative to the positive list of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by a new regulation 1932/2006 adopted on 21 december 2006, which confirmed that those countries fulfilled the criteria laid down in that regulation. that regulation made the implementation of the exemption from the visa requirement for nationals of those countries conditional upon the conclusion and entry into force of a bilateral visa exemption agreement between the european community and each of those countries. as simon busuttil said, full reciprocity had to be ensured, because some of these countries still required visas for citizens of one or more member states at that time. due to the temporary visa regime applied by caricom the caribbean common market countries to nationals of several member states during the cricket world cup, formal visa waiver negotiations were not opened until july 2008. in order to ensure that citizens benefit from the visa exemption as soon as possible, the commission proposed the provisional application of the agreements which were signed on 28 may 2009 and since that date they have been applied provisionally pending the completion of the procedures necessary for their formal conclusion. on the basis of the principle of reciprocity, the exemption from the visa requirement applies to all categories of ordinary, diplomatic or official service passport holders, irrespective of the purpose of the journey, with the exception of the pursuit of a paid activity. in order to ensure equal treatment for all citizens of the union, as mr busutill has said, the agreements contain a provision which provides that the six third countries may only suspend or terminate the agreement in respect of the citizens of all the member states of the european community, and reciprocally that the community may only suspend or terminate the agreement in respect of all its member states. i thank parliament, i thank mr busuttil for his cooperation, which is support for this initiative which will facilitate the mobility of our citizens, and i add that in this somewhat cold parliament we can dream of visiting sooner or later all these wonderful countries, such as the seychelles or the bahamas...
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the gue/ngl group is in favour of the european union's agreements with these six countries, which are indeed, mr barrot, dream destinations. under these agreements, as you have told us, the nationals of these six countries, and those of the european union, will in future be exempt from short-stay visas, at least some of them, since those who want to pursue a profession or gainful activity, as an employee or a service provider, in short, are excluded. this means that the persons exempted from the visa requirement are businessmen and women, sportsmen and artists, at least for occasional activities, journalists and trainees, in general. we should not be complacent and should welcome this progress, for we know the administrative hassles in our embassies for issuing visas to citizens of southern countries. i am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that at least for the few who remain, you have all been aware of the cases of artists who are prevented from attending a festival or of sportsmen who are prevented from taking part in competitions. we in the gue/ngl are in favour of abolishing all short-stay visas. they are contrary to the free movement of persons and they are putting the nationals of these countries into a vicious circle which leads them to apply for short-stay visas and, once they have been granted, to not return for fear of not being able to obtain another visa, in which case, in our countries, the screw is tightened constantly with regard to short-stay visas, and a vicious circle is set in motion. this is a very serious problem, and it is a problem which is not just a problem of the immigrant population but also of the immigrant population. we therefore consider these agreements to be a positive step towards another migration policy which would see men and women moving as freely as capital and goods. we have a small question, however, commissioner, a small technical question. we have noticed that the english term "valid passport" is translated into english as "ordinary passport", and we think that is not the same thing. we would therefore be glad to have a clarification on this point, considering that the correct translation would be "passport in force". we are also surprised - perhaps the word 'surprised' is a formulation, or at least a polite formulation - that these agreements do not apply to the french overseas territories, whereas they do apply to the portuguese overseas territories.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we european parliamentarians have a double responsibility, firstly towards our peoples, who expect us to make a real effort in copenhagen, and secondly towards the countries of the south, whose defenders europe has always been, and indeed has been on the international stage. we need to give the countries of the south a real signal in the form of a clear financial commitment, which allows, in addition to the development aid which must reach the agreed level, that is to say 0.7%, to agree on additional aid. the eu contribution should be no less than €35 billion per year by 2020, and between €5 and €7 billion should be made available to the countries of the south as early as 2010 to cover the most urgent needs. the second point is the method of financing. we will not, we cannot, simply limit ourselves to existing funds. we will have to find other ways of financing, because if there is no money in copenhagen, there will be no ambitious agreement in copenhagen. this means that, very likely, even if the subject is very controversial, we will have to raise the question of a tax, a type of "tobin green tax", to finance climate change. thirdly, with regard to deforestation, which, i would remind you, now accounts for 20% of greenhouse gas emissions, it is absolutely imperative that we pursue a goal of zero gross deforestation by 2020. i would draw your attention to the difference between gross deforestation and net deforestation, which would be to replace primary forest with poplar trees, assuming that it is the same result. we all know that's not true. it is true that we need to be realistic about our industry, but we also need to be realistic about our own survival and that of our children.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president-in-office, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the future of the world will undoubtedly be decided in copenhagen, but before that, the credibility of the european union as a world leader in the fight against global warming will be decided in brussels at the end of october. member states must make proposals for climate finance in response to dramatic economic developments. the question of financing, mitigation and adaptation to climate change in developing countries will be, along with the question of commitments, which i hope will be ambitious, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, another major issue in the coming negotiations. the numbers speak for themselves. one hundred countries, most of them poor, account for only 3 percent of global emissions. while developing countries have contributed the least to greenhouse gas emissions, they are already the most affected. according to a recent oxfam report, 26 million people have already been forced to migrate due to the effects of climate change or other forms of environmental degradation. by 2050, these climate refugees could be more than 200 million. the effects of climate change could undo the progress made in some developing countries and simply prevent the achievement of the millennium development goals. so it's not about charity. it is a question of taking our full responsibility and laying the foundations for a just and peaceful world. the current strategy of the european union is not worthy of the ambitions of the leaders of environmental diplomacy. she must lay her cards on the table now, in order to restart the negotiations. the union cannot decently promise less than 35 billion euros of public finances. of course, these funds can only be additional to those already promised for official development aid, especially since commitments in this area are not always respected by our member states. mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fate of the planet is in our hands. if we do not stop the degradation of our environment and the inequalities, the worst is yet to come. we have a choice between an ambitious and willing europe and a timid europe, aligned with the united states and unconcerned about the fate of the developing countries. i urge you to make the right choice.
mr president, we are the main cause of climate change, but the developing countries are the main victims, which is why the developed countries, which are also the biggest polluters, will have to make strong commitments in copenhagen. it is necessary for us, but it is even more necessary for the countries of the south. we have accumulated a debt, particularly with africa, for a long time. that is why we must find the right level of financial and technological compensation. europe will have to respond now, even if it is not painless for our fellow citizens. we will have to help these countries to adapt their economies and to fight against climate change, but we will also have to think about a radically different development policy. africa needs a protected market for sustainable agriculture to emerge. africa needs to protect its forests, its soil, its resources from the plunder of the developed countries. copenhagen will only succeed if we are able to convey this message of co-responsibility and solidarity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change has already killed 300,000 people and millions more are yet to die. inaction is a crime against humanity. there's an emergency, but the negotiation is going nowhere. yet, countries such as japan, australia, norway, china, brazil, and south africa are making efforts to meet their responsibilities. this is not the case in the united states, and unfortunately it is no longer the case in europe. to generalize european ambitions to the whole planet would result in a global warming of 4 degrees. this is totally unacceptable. but it is europe that holds the keys to copenhagen. mr president-in-office of the council, if the european summit, in accordance with the recommendations of the european parliament, takes the right decisions at the end of the month, then europe can give the negotiations a boost. with a 30% reduction target, with a 35 billion aid target for the countries of the south. mr president, we find it absolutely shocking that some member states are now using aid to the countries of the south as a bargaining tool. we don't negotiate the plight of the south.
madam president, climate change, as we have been saying since this morning, is simply the worsening of desertification and drought, deforestation, natural disasters, the increase in hunger and poverty, mainly in the southern countries, and migration flows. the copenhagen summit must benefit from the commitment of the nations of the world to strike a balance between four important objectives, the first of which is, of course, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also to not slow down our economy, to avoid ecological dumping and to promote new european technologies. so, in this connection, as we must take the poorest countries into account, i would like to draw your attention to the developing countries, particularly the most advanced developing countries. this concept does not appear in international texts and these countries are included in the category of developing countries. they are therefore not considered as countries that should contribute to the effort to reduce greenhouse gases, even though they are among the largest consumers of carbon. i am thinking, of course, of china, i am thinking of india, i am thinking of brazil, which absolutely must commit themselves in copenhagen to similar goals to those of the industrialized countries, because they have absolutely nothing in common with most of the other developing countries. the co2 reduction efforts must be allocated under the most equitable conditions. we must avoid any distortion of competition. the negotiations must also be an opportunity to stimulate the deployment of our new technologies, to enable significant funding for research and development. in copenhagen, it will be necessary - and it is a necessity - to create the conditions for a sustainable exchange between countries, based on mutual interests. the success will be to promote the dissemination of technologies to the least developed countries in return for the recognition of intellectual property rights and the opening of markets for these technologies.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, we are facing a challenge for humanity, a challenge for future generations. to raise the bar, copenhagen must allow for a global agreement, a single agreement, because, as the chairman of the committee on the environment, jo leinen, has just said, an alliance of all, industrialized and emerging countries, is necessary. today, with our debate and the drafting of a resolution by our parliament, we are again calling on the european union to maintain its leading role in this necessary policy to combat climate change. remember, we need to speak with one voice to maintain credibility. yes, we must reach an agreement in copenhagen to limit the increase in global average temperature to a level that is no more than 2 degrees above pre-industrial levels. yes, we must sign an agreement in copenhagen to achieve collective reductions in greenhouse gas emissions of 30% by 2020 compared to 1990. but that's not enough. not only is it necessary for developed countries to reduce their emissions substantially, but developing countries must also contribute to the achievement of the targets. industrialized countries should therefore provide sufficient, sustainable and predictable financial and technical support to developing countries to encourage them to commit to reducing their greenhouse gas emissions. copenhagen must therefore enable developing countries to move towards low-carbon models. so let me address two areas which i believe are necessary for our future. first, the establishment, at global level, of financing for the fight against global warming, based on taxation of financial transactions. secondly, i think it is necessary to introduce a tax adjustment at europe's borders which would hit imports of products manufactured without any concern for environmental protection, a tax adjustment linked to a contractual reimbursement to the southern countries of the carbon tax thus collected at europe's borders and which would be used to finance investments in the equipment necessary for their fight against global warming.
madam president, just as the last g20 was an opportunity for europe to play a leading role in defining a new world economic order, so at the copenhagen conference next december europe will once again have the responsibility, but above all the obligation, to show its international partners the way forward. contrary to what has been said just now, especially by my green colleagues, europe has begun to take its responsibilities in terms of environmental protection, since the adoption of the energy-climate package in december 2008. with this, europe will have the legitimacy to steer the negotiations towards an ambitious, concrete and global response to the challenges of climate change. the agreement to be reached in copenhagen must be based on the principle of joint responsibility, but also differentiated responsibility. in concrete terms, it is up to us as industrialized countries to ensure that our developing partners, as françoise grossetête said earlier, have the means to join us in an ambitious approach to combating climate change. we must also lead by example, including by committing to an ambitious programme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050. i heard earlier that it was not enough, but it is a good start. we must also, at the same time, create the conditions for developing countries to participate alongside us in this global effort. we have a responsibility, but we also have duties towards these countries. the point is simple: we have a common challenge to overcome which requires the mobilization of all. yet, we know that not all of us have the same abilities and background. copenhagen must therefore be a success, but with a real contribution that goes far beyond mere commitment. the european union will be judged on this contribution and on this commitment. if copenhagen does not result in firm, joint commitments, in concrete achievements by our international partners, we in europe will have to, as our last colleague has just said, impose a carbon tax at our borders. it is the only way to be heard and to make our virtuous commitment meaningful. it is up to europe to make sure that this message is heard.
madam president, the problem of financing the fight against global warming in developing countries, as we have heard many times this morning, can make copenhagen fail, although we all want this summit to be a success. yet, as we know, these countries are often the main victims of this warming, for which they are not responsible. the industrialized countries have provided substantial financial assistance. it is not enough today and, even in the amounts shown, it is not in fact respected. this is what obliges us and will oblige us to find new sources of finance. the committee on the environment, after the committee on development, has admitted that it is now necessary to consider a financial transaction tax of the tobin tax type, which, at a rate of 0.01% on speculative transactions, would bring in $100 billion a year, the amount estimated to be needed by 2020 to combat global warming in developing countries. parliament, after some national politicians, therefore takes its responsibilities. i would like to know what the position of the council and the commission is and whether they will follow us on this point.
in writing. we are voting for this text with the unfairly dismissed nokia employees in mind. but we want to stress that we are not satisfied with having to vote for a little 'less bad' in the worst case: aid for jobseekers in the context of absurd mass layoffs by the world's number one mobile phone company, nokia, layoffs conceived here as one of the hazards of a globalisation that we should be able to accommodate. we denounce this logic of 'adjustment' to globalisation, because this is how the european union names social and human tragedies like this one, where companies with record profits relocate to make more profits, ruining the lives of hundreds of workers and an entire region. this charitable palliative (the european globalisation adjustment fund) cannot make us forget that the european union is in fact directly responsible for the tragedy experienced by dismissed employees because of its option for free and undistorted competition. rather than accompanying these 'adjustments' to the monstrous vagaries of the globalised capitalist economy, the european union should ban such practices and protect european citizens.
in writing. we dare to speak of the schengen acquis, but as a resident of calais, i can testify that while the schengen agreements have been favourable to the free movement of capital and goods, they nevertheless pose a number of problems. beyond the friendly utopia of a europe without borders, we are confronted every day with the dramatic reality of schengen: inhuman living conditions for migrants. the union and the member states are doing little or nothing to deal with this tragedy. france, on the other hand, is dishonoring itself by conducting media-police operations of man-hunting, as with the "jungle" of calais. so even in terms of strictly humanitarian action, the european union is completely absent, leaving the local authorities to deal with the problems on their own. let's stop crying crocodile tears and start acting like responsible human beings. what is happening in calais is a major political problem for the union. it will not be resolved by the fortress europe of schengen, nor by one-off humanitarian actions. let us stop free trade policies, stop the free movement of capital, encourage food sovereignty, declare water and energy global public goods, fight socioeconomic inequalities.
mr president, you have been nominated by this house to be the next president of the commission. your next urgent task is to organise this commission so that it can take up the task of helping europe to emerge from the crisis from above. in view of this, how do you think we can use the weak community instruments at our disposal to optimise them, and how do you envisage a distribution of portfolios which will enable us to be able to answer the questions that arise? i know that everything depends on your discussions with the heads of state and government, but as president of the commission you must offer them a vision. how do we articulate these strategies that are available to us? how can we allocate our portfolios to reflect the lessons of this crisis? i will take just one example of the tools. the fund for globalisation is now confronted with state aid strategies which do not allow us to implement industrial policies which are useful in getting out of this crisis. what are your proposals? what will you ask the heads of state to do as a mandate and as a distribution of portfolios?
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on budgetary control has delivered an opinion with many suggestions. in a minute, i'll introduce you to three. the first concerns research, in particular the sixth and seventh framework programmes. for reasons of legal certainty, commissioner, it is desirable that the european commission refrain from recalculating the financial statements of projects which have already been approved and settled with new interpretations of the eligibility criteria. we again ask the commission not to depart from the accounting methods of calculation which are generally used and certified at national and international level. the second point is the budgetization of pensions for the union's staff. we propose that the claims on the member states for staff pensions, which amount to some eur 37 billion cumulated at 31 december 2008, should be entered in the accounts. we also suggest that these pensions should be budgeted for their actual amount and not just for the amounts paid, which do not take account of the sums set aside for future pensions. i repeat the proposal for a study on the creation of a community pension fund, and we also support the anti-fraud office which must be strengthened for control operations outside the union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - madam president, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, i would like to stress two points today. the first is the question of setting up supervisory structures at european level. in the aftermath of the crisis, or during the crisis, everyone understands that the union must have structures to supervise the banking, insurance and securities markets. we had a political agreement with the council at the end of the last parliament, which was about certain amounts, as to the authorities which are to prefigure the authorities we are going to set up today. the draft budget as it stands does not respect this political agreement which was reached in the previous parliament. i hope that the amendments which have been tabled will be adopted so that we can be on the same level as the political agreement which was reached so that the union could finally have supervisory authorities. i would also like to stress the issue of tax policy. there are fewer tools, even though there is a global call for more tax governance. if we really want to combat tax havens, the union must also find ways of conducting this policy in a coherent manner. but we are not sending the right signal by reducing the commission's capacity in this area.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, as chairman of the committee on budgets, i would like to react to the surprising publication of a draft commission communication on the budgetary review. the commissioner will tell us if this is an unintentional indiscretion. but i'd like to issue a warning. even if it does not contain any figures, the very innovative and sometimes provocative content of this text seems inappropriate for a commission at the very end of its term of office and for a mid-term review of the multiannual agreement signed in 2006. it is therefore urgent that the president of the commission should set out his timetable for the financial proposals he intends to make, either for the outgoing commission or for the new college. changing budgetary and therefore political priorities is not a matter for the management of current affairs. the committee on budgets will be ready to debate, but on the basis of proposals from a commission with full legitimacy, a five-year mandate and a willingness to take political responsibility for initiatives of such a scale.
madam president, i should first like to thank the rapporteur, mr surján, for the balanced budget he has proposed, which meets the dual challenge of financing the recovery plan and setting up a milk fund. as regards the establishment of this milk fund of eur 300 million, as we have proposed to the epp group and the committee on budgets, i would like to make two comments. first of all, let me denounce the demagogy of some of us who are calling for more than eur 600 million to be allocated to this fund, which is simply unrealistic and above all irresponsible, because such an amount would lead to drastic cuts in other agricultural sectors or jeopardise the financing of our recovery plan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to express my surprise, if not disappointment, at the fact that our commissioner, mrs fischer boel, has taken over the exclusive authorship of such a fund in the media, as if the committee on budgets had not worked, or that its work was useless. finally, as the benjamin of the french meps, i would like to express my disappointment at the financing of the youth in action programme, since paradoxically, in the midst of the economic crisis, we are preparing, for the first time in ten years, to reduce the resources of such a programme.
author. madam president, madam president-in-office, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, democracy and human rights are inextricably linked. it is respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms which ultimately make it possible to recognize a democratic regime. it is therefore welcome that the council indicated on 19 may that the european union should adopt a more coherent approach to democratic governance. the efforts made so far have been largely inadequate. the israeli-palestinian conflict is a striking example. while the mission sent to observe the palestinian elections in 2006 had recognised the legitimacy of the result, the european union and its member states chose to boycott the resulting government, just as they boycotted the subsequent national unity government formed to resolve the impasse. where is the coherence and credibility of the european union when its own decisions are so clearly opposed to the principles it sets out? and what about those member states which refuse to support the goldstone report? its conclusions are just and balanced and their support by all would be a step towards peace. it is this hope that the great powers are destroying, and they are destroying it by their lack of courage and by their lack of loyalty to their own values. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we must be consistent with ourselves and take a global approach to these issues. the council should adopt a programme of action in this direction, with the development of a genuine human rights strategy, which would be required at all levels of the union. it is a question of clearly stating our priorities and of integrating them in a concrete way into all our instruments: foreign policy, human rights and development policy. what monitoring are we carrying out in third countries where the european union observes elections to ensure that political pluralism and the involvement of civil society are respected in the long term? what are our demands for the establishment of an independent judiciary or institutions that are transparent and accountable to their citizens? the artistic blur maintained around the place of human rights in our politics is culpable and counterproductive. it is time to clarify this if we want the european union and its most fundamental values to be taken more seriously at international level.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, i have to tell you again tonight that the financial provisions you are proposing are just a drop in the ocean of crisis and despair in which farmers are living today. you are in fact going to release 280 million euros, whereas a few weeks ago there was talk of 600 million euros. so you're going to give 1,000 euros to farmers who are now losing 100 to 200 euros a day. so we are asking for a real emergency financial plan, not a cancer cure-all. on the other hand, you want to use public money for a massive plan to slaughter dairy cows and close farms. in this way you are destroying the future of our farmers, because it is the young people who will be most affected, the small farmers, those who value the land, produce quality milk products, quality cheese and protect the environment. how dare we propose this when so many families in europe and elsewhere have no access to food, let alone milk! and i'll add that tomorrow, with your plan, we'll run out of milk. finally, at a time when we are being so proud of the lisbon treaty, it is hardly surprising that you want to enforce article 186 of the regulation which will give you full powers. but you had the full powers, and it was these full powers that led you to decide to liberalize quotas, which has plunged us into the crisis we are in today, to the sole benefit of manufacturers and distribution. because even today, the european court of auditors indicates that, from 2000 to 2007, consumer prices for dairy products increased by 17%, while producer prices decreased by 6%. i would like to say to you once again, commissioner, that it is urgent, very urgent, to give massive aid to agricultural work through a large european emergency fund and to return to a policy of minimum agricultural prices and not to let the capitalist market destroy our farmers.
mr president, we need policy coherence. we have been very numerous in these benches in recent weeks to call for action from the commission. as soon as answers are put to us, we shall vote in favour of those answers, even if - i agree with what has been said - those answers are very late and have had to be extracted both by the positions expressed in the european parliament and also by the positions of the ministers. this sum, which will be used in the very short term, does not, as many have already said, resolve the long-term questions of how to deal with the planned end of quotas. it is inconceivable that in the case of agricultural products we can do without the instruments of regulation and production control and the combination of both if we are to be able to cope with and avoid repeated crises in this sector. but that's not the issue tonight. the only question that is relevant at the moment is article 186. i have a simple question, commissioner: what exactly is article 186 supposed to do, when and how?
mr president, i should have come earlier, but i was busy. i explained to the french audience what had happened yesterday in luxembourg. i think the council's decision is a bad decision, because the only word in the text is 'restructuring'. in france, the number of milk producers has fallen from 480,000 in 1984 to less than 88,000 today. and today we are told that we still have to eliminate producers and that the money we will recover - it is in the text - will go to producers who have exceeded their quota. so we're going to concentrate production again and eliminate the milk producers in the hardest hit areas. this is not the right way. the money that has been given, the 280 million - it has already been said - is 50 euros per month per farm for a year. it is a drop in the bucket, almost a disregard for the crisis facing the producers. finally, on article 186, i would say that when we are about to move to codecision on agricultural matters, it is not acceptable to give the commission a blank cheque.
in writing. the european commission has responded to the weeks of mobilisation by dairy farmers to save their sector in crisis by creating a 'dairy fund' of €280 million. mrs fischer-boel has therefore yielded to the pressure after weeks of not hearing the distress of farmers on the verge of bankruptcy. however, this financial measure is trivial and is only intended to appease the anger of the producers for a while. it will not solve the problem of a sector which is disappearing with the planned end of milk quotas. what the dairy farmers want is not charity or assistance, what they want is regulation of the market so that they can sell their milk at prices which allow them to live with dignity from their work and ensure a future for their children. the european union, in its unwavering determination to impose the dogma of free and undistorted competition, is going to leave thousands of farmers to the law of the market alone. it is the same ultra-liberalism that is putting thousands of industrial workers out of work every month. the time has come to put an end to the carnage.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the epp group expects the next european council to put an end to the too long period of uncertainty about the european institutions and to give the necessary impetus to the establishment of the new commission, but also of the president of the permanent council and the high representative provided for by the lisbon treaty. the council will have to take the necessary measures to boost the recovery of growth and to put europe in the best position to create jobs, because the crisis will continue as long as social cohesion is not restored. on the institutions first of all, i would like to point out that with the decision of the polish president to put his signature at the bottom of the treaty, all but one country has cleared the way for europe to finally move forward without wasting time. on 27 october, two days before the european council, the czech constitutional court will examine the compatibility of the treaty with the constitution of the country. of course, we will respect that decision, whatever it is. my group, however, regrets that the czech president, after his parliament adopted the treaty of lisbon as it stands, has put on the table a new pretext for postponing its signature, because everyone knows that this is only a pretext. i regret that other countries are following suit and are also asking for assurances on certain aspects of the treaty. we must not give in to the temptation to open pandora's box, and i commend the presidency for making that clear. the ppe group expects the european council to make it clear that the european union will not accept any delaying manoeuvre. all the peoples, directly or indirectly, have supported the treaty and now we must move forward. everyone knows that as long as the institutional question dominates the european public debate and as long as europe does not have the instruments it needs to take decisions in a democratic and effective manner, the real political, economic, social and ecological issues will not be dealt with with the necessary speed and seriousness. we can see that we are currently doing a bit of a lot of the work. our parliament must be able to hold hearings of future commissioners as soon as possible and it must be able to decide, if possible before the end of the year, on all the posts to be filled in the commission, as in the council. the ppe group also expects the european council to give clear guidelines on economic policy, drawing on the conclusions of the g20 summit in pittsburgh, which produced mixed results and we are already seeing in the press that it is starting again as if nothing had happened. europe must do everything possible to enable its enterprises to resume their activities at a level sufficient to recruit and also to invest in research. europe must also do everything possible to ensure a fair trading environment. finally, i expect the european council on climate to adopt a strategy adapted to the situation, that is to say to the weakness of the commitments of our partners so far, less than two months before copenhagen. i ask the question clearly: what pressure are we going to put on the united states, on china and on all the emerging countries? moderate and polite pressure or maximum pressure? i welcome europe's pioneering role in this area, but it cannot be the only one making the necessary efforts to combat global warming. there are only 50 days left before the copenhagen summit, 50 days is not much, but it is enough if we are able to be convincing enough, and i therefore ask you, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, to tell us how you intend to use those 50 days. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council in october will be a key moment and it will show whether or not europe is aware of the urgency of taking action on the economic and social fronts and of going beyond institutional disputes. my group, the epp, appeals to the sense of responsibility of each of its 27 member states. (applause) i would like to thank
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i thank you for giving me the opportunity to comment on a few points at this stage, although i shall of course remain until the end of the debate. i'll turn first to guy verhofstadt. no, i don't think the train can be stopped either. i hope the train will arrive at its station very, very soon. i can assure both guy verhofstadt and the members that the swedish presidency is in very close contact with the czechs and we hope that very soon we will be able to give more precise and concrete answers as to what will happen to the treaty and when. we are very keen, as you are, to see that everything is set in place as soon as possible, both as regards the posts to be filled and the list of commissioners to be presented to the european parliament for the hearing you are to hold. at the summit we will take all the necessary decisions that can be taken. we will have all the preparations ready for the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon as soon as we have all the ratifications. i would also like to thank the members from all the groups for their strong support for the presidency's absolute priority, namely to reach an agreement in copenhagen. it's very important. europe has a great responsibility to clarify the financing issue so that we can show that we are taking our share of the global responsibility and sending these signals. joseph daul, we have very intensive contacts with other players. we will have summits in just a few weeks with both russia and china and the united states, where climate and energy issues will of course be a priority to discuss with all these countries. we also have the working group meetings and the barcelona meeting in ten days. and the finance ministers are meeting in st andrews, so there's plenty of opportunity to talk. i am not satisfied with the results so far, but i am absolutely optimistic that we will still be able to reach an agreement in copenhagen. citizens all over the world expect us to do so. i also think it is very good if the eu can show results in dealing with the financial crisis. however, now that some positive signals are coming, we must not forget that we need the new supervisory bodies in place so that we are better equipped to avoid similar crises in the future and to be able to identify them in time. i therefore hope that the monitoring system and the macro-supervisory body can be set up as soon as possible. institutional issues are of the utmost importance. it is important that the european union can take decisions, and that it can do so in a democratic and effective way. the treaty of lisbon is an important instrument in this respect. at the same time, the european union can never win the confidence of its citizens unless we deliver results on concrete issues. the management of the economic crisis and environmental issues are concerns of people all over the world, not least in the european union. if we can move forward and achieve results at the summit and later in the autumn, i believe that this will create very good conditions for increased legitimacy and confidence in the european institutions.
president of the commission. - mr president, i think that the president of the epp group, mr joseph daul, and mrs harms have asked very important questions. how can we succeed in copenhagen, especially when other partners are not doing as well? there are indeed difficulties, because there is clearly a lack of ambition on the part of some developed countries in terms of concrete commitment to reduce emissions. the largest developing economies are also reluctant to integrate their national mitigation plans into the global agreement, and there is currently no credible financial plan. so what can we do about it? firstly, i do not think that this is the time for europe to reduce its ambition. we would be giving all the negative forces an excuse not to make an effort. so it is up to us to maintain ambition, to maintain leadership, but at the same time - and here i am responding concretely to joseph daul - to say that our offer, especially the financial offer, is a conditional offer. we are prepared to help those who are really making efforts to reduce emissions. so it is important to make a conditional offer in financial terms, but to reduce our ambition would be a mistake. i think we can still make it in copenhagen. there are also positive aspects. the united states has re-entered the negotiations. it should be remembered that a few years ago the united states was not really involved in the process, and now it is engaged in the negotiations. it should also be remembered that australia and japan have announced ambitious objectives - not yet in binding terms, but already on a political level. and even china, mexico, brazil, south korea, have announced ambitious national plans, but they have not yet agreed to incorporate them into a global agreement. so let us invest in the positive aspects, let us create this dynamic and i hope that the european council at the end of this month will not provide arguments to the sceptics, the cassandras, who are already saying that we need a plan b. i've said before, we can't have a plan b, because there is no planet b. what we need to do is concentrate and not miss this historic opportunity which is, of course, copenhagen. my final point is to express my surprise. i would never have expected a british member of this parliament to question that great institution which is the british parliament. one of the greatest contributions of britain to civilization was and is the british parliament. (applause) let's be clear about this. the british government has negotiated the treaty. the british government has signed the treaty. the parliament of britain the house of commons and the house of lords have approved the treaty. her majesty the queen has ratified the treaty. the instruments of ratification of the uk are deposited in rome. so the united kingdom has ratified the lisbon treaty and i hope that everyone - particularly the british members - respects the british democratic system. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to raise three questions. first, the issue of climate change. as everyone knows, the union has a special responsibility to bring the nations of the world to copenhagen. to do this we must be demanding and ambitious in our objectives, but we must also live up to the debt we owe to the developing countries. each will have to make a financial effort to the extent possible. if we are not able to show solidarity, it will not work. secondly, the question of migration. it is, of course, good to do better with frontex, but if we really want to help the countries of southern europe, then we must move towards harmonizing the right of asylum, go back to the dublin convention and, more importantly, finally develop a real immigration policy. i believe that this is the only way to deal with this matter in a calm and responsible manner. thirdly, and lastly, foreign policy. the council will make progress on the question of the external action service. that's good. we'll probably have a high representative. that's good. but it would be even better if we spoke with one voice, at least on the conflicts that are troubling the world. i am thinking in particular of afghanistan, where i would like to point out that the number of european soldiers involved is almost the same as that of american soldiers. there is going to be a us-eu summit on 3 november, and the europeans have a special responsibility. they must propose a strategy that is not exclusively military. if we don't do it, then no one else will.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, more than four months after the election of this european parliament, you are convening a european council at a time when the european union is floundering, with a commission still in place to deal with current affairs. if we do not want to give the european citizens a complete break, i think that this european council could send two messages. the first is that one year after all the european states have shown solidarity with the banks, you should launch an initiative for a european debate on the financial transaction tax or on the contribution that banks must make to the budgets of the member states to ensure solidarity in return. and then, mrs malmström, on behalf of the european commission, the president of the commission yesterday told us that he supported the budget as it was drawn up today and that, one year after the recovery plan, nothing new had to be imagined. but in the last year the situation on the employment front, the situation on the debt front, has worsened considerably. the budget we have before us today is a budget which does not even finance the second part of the recovery plan as you imagined it a year ago. so here is another message on which this european council should be mobilizing: taxation of financial transactions, solidarity of banks with the budgets of the member states and a real recovery plan, as initiated a year ago, even though we denounced it as insufficient.
mr president, madam minister, madam vice-president of the european commission, my question concerns the application of the treaty of lisbon, and in particular the promise made to the irish people to have a commissioner per country. it was agreed in december 2008 that the european council would take the appropriate legal measures to ensure that we have one commissioner per country. what are these legal measures, madam minister? is there information circulating that there will be an amendment to the lisbon treaty, with the accession of croatia, or are there other appropriate legal arrangements? could you please provide us with this information? how do you also intend to bring the number of meps to 18, since there are 18 meps who normally have to constitute the next european parliament with the next lisbon treaty?
mr president, i would like to speak in the spirit of my speech yesterday on the preparations for the copenhagen summit, and in the wake of yesterday's ecofin meeting, which was not successful. i was asking you about our responsibility as industrialized countries to ensure that developing countries can join us in our efforts to combat climate change. in copenhagen we cannot pretend that we all have the same abilities, otherwise we would all start from the same point and end up with nothing. so, to convince our developing partners to join us, we will obviously have to address the question of the aid to be given to them and not wait for the outcome of the copenhagen summit. at the next european council, the 27 will have to agree on how the european union will design aid to developing countries in the important context of climate change. as i said yesterday, the ecofin council of finance ministers was unable to reach a common position on this issue. yet we know that this is a very central question. the european commission has already made proposals, and i would like to see us taking the lead in bringing our partners together in the global solidarity needed to overcome the problem of climate change.
in writing. i voted in favour of changing the title of the draft resolution on freedom of information in italy following a statement by the european commission on 8 october 2009 wishing the word 'italy' to be deleted. although the situation in italy is extremely worrying because of the persistent conflict of interest between the ownership and/or control of the public or private media and certain political powers, i share the view of many colleagues that the european parliament does not have to 'point the finger' at any particular member state.
in writing. i voted today against the joint resolution tabled by the epp, the ecr and the efd on freedom of information in italy and other member states, and against the amendments tabled by the same groups to the joint resolution tabled by the left and the centre, because they were essentially aimed at relieving the president of the italian council of his responsibilities for respecting the principle of pluralism, which is a fundamental value of our democracies, and were scandalously attacking the person of the president of the italian republic, giorgio napolitano. i strongly supported the joint resolution co-signed by my group because i am fundamentally committed to freedom of expression and support european legislation on media concentration, despite the opposition of the right, already expressed on several occasions. we recall the concerns expressed by italy following the recent pressure exerted by silvio berlusconi on italian and european newspapers, as well as the statement by the european commission following the return of migrants by the italian authorities on the high seas to libya, in violation of the principle of non-refoulement.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is it in italy that the head of state threatens, prosecutes any criticism or is personally involved in a trial to kill a political opponent? is it in italy that the ruling party treats any information that is not courtesy as "villainry", as a "campaign of absolutely unheard-of violence", as a deliberate attempt to "make the head of state stumble"? is it in italy that the press is criticized when it echoes such matters as nepotism for the benefit of the leader's offspring? is it only in italy that the governments have special affinities with the heads of the large private channels and appoint the heads of the public channels? is it in italy that the law on audiovisual advertising is adjusted to the benefit of friends? is it in italy that a minister invites himself to a major tv news programme to confess to having practiced sex tourism, an act punishable by law but strangely not when it concerns him? no, it's in france! and i am surprised that the french socialists, communists and greens here have not thought it appropriate to take advantage of this debate to denounce the dubious practices of sarkozie!
in writing. freedom of the press is an imperative. a democratic legislative institution such as the european parliament cannot of course call this acquis into question. the protection and defence of freedom of information must be ensured in all circumstances. however, the european parliament is not intended to become a supranational court of justice. the pluralism and freedom of all media must be guaranteed within the european union, but it is not for us as meps to judge a country and its leaders on the nature of relations between the press and the political world. the european parliament's interference in this area is unacceptable. what legitimacy do we have to give any opinion on the state of the italian media? this is a political debate within a member state, a debate which must be conducted and resolved within the borders of the state concerned. the rejection of the amendment which sought to change the name of this resolution to give it a more community-like appearance is a good indication of the focused and purely political nature of this debate. we must be careful not to turn our assembly into a courtroom.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which denounced the deterioration of the press situation in europe and in particular in italy and therefore called for legislation on media concentration. i find it absolutely scandalous that the european right - including its elected representatives in the ump - has spoken out against the protection of freedom of expression, thus aligning itself with the position of the elected representatives of the far right and the europe-haters. with this vote, the european right shows that it first had a protective reflex towards the italian prime minister, silvio berlusconi. as a member of the epp, and the head of a media empire unprecedented for a political figure, he regularly threatens journalists and politicians who oppose his actions. it is not an act of interference to say that the italian prime minister's control of the transalpine media is an insult to european press freedom. the italian democracy certainly deserves respect, as do all the democracies in the eu. however, its representative is not worthy today. it is out of respect for the italian people that we have the duty today to denounce him.
in writing. the epp group was very satisfied with the vote on the joint resolution on freedom of information in italy and the european union. the aim was to make the role of the european parliament clear: we are a legislative assembly and not a court for the internal affairs of the member states. this disguised personal attack was not intended to find an echo in parliament. i welcome the outcome of this vote, which, although very close, restores the value of the principle of subsidiarity within the european union and its institutions.
for the greens/efa group madam president, in her speech mrs malmström said that we need action and not just good words, nice words. i can tell you that the green group will be following very closely the outcome of this us/eu summit, because it comes at a key moment in the road to copenhagen and the reform of the international financial system. on this last point, we are at a time when the casino has reopened, when bank profits are again at historic highs 437 billion profit for us banks and our analysis is that political will is less than it was six months ago. so there is a lot to be expected from this summit, which is intended to show that, on the american side as well as on the european side, the political will to regulate capitalism, to regulate financial institutions, is still present. and to that end, we would like to propose to move forward on two very important points. the first is the fight against tax havens, which was not mentioned in your speeches. the u.s. treasury acknowledges that tax havens lose $100 billion a year in tax revenue. we therefore wanted to stress this point, to tell you that it is important that there should be joint work between the united states and europe on this matter at this summit. the second element, which we have just mentioned, is the financial transaction tax. mr barroso, when he was a candidate for re-election, explicitly said that he was in favour of such a tax. two weeks ago, for the first time, the european parliament voted by a majority in favour of a financial transaction tax, provided that it is part of an international framework. the green group therefore asks you to put this issue on the agenda of the us/eu summit in early november. lastly, on climate, we have a responsibility to remove a thorn from mr. obama's foot. president obama wants to act, but he's stuck with his majority. the best service to be rendered to the south is for the european union to commit by the end of october to financing up to eur 30 billion of adaptation expenditure in the south and to commit to a 30% reduction in its own emissions, and then we can move forward with the negotiations. it's our responsibility. we have to do it before this summit.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, madam commissioner, madam minister, in the current economic turmoil, the newly elected parliament has the right to as accurate and up-to-date information as possible on the construction of the transatlantic single market project and on the deregulation objectives it contains in the economic and financial fields, contrary to the dream expressed by some of our colleagues. is the implementation horizon for this large deregulated market 2010 and 2015? is it confirmed? for my part, i think that this would be very harmful to europe, given the pitiful state of the fundamentals of the us economy and its refusal to put financial matters in order, as well as the reasons of principle which lead me to oppose the idea that this partnership should be, as many of you have repeatedly said, the cornerstone of the policy of the european union. this also leads me to ask what measures will be taken to deal with the collapse of the dollar and the risk it poses to europe and the rest of the world. why has the chinese proposal for a world common currency been rejected without serious consideration, in favour of the stability of the world economy? i want to warn against an outdated atlanticism, which ends up being a very archaic follow-through, at this moment in the life of the world when we need more than ever to assert an existence independent of the will of the united states of america.
madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation between europe and the united states is crucial to solving most of the major global challenges, and the new american administration is certainly an opportunity. it has already taken initiatives which have marked a break with the previous one: in iraq, on guantanamo, on the missile shield. but it would be naive to think that this will be enough to make the american and european views identical in every respect, and that everything will now be simple in transatlantic relations. whether it is preparations for copenhagen and aid to developing countries, doha and protectionism, financial regulation and the fight against tax havens, the relaunching of the middle east peace process or firmness on the iranian nuclear issue, each of these issues is confronted with very heavy american inertia, which goes beyond the goodwill or otherwise of the administration, and which often depends on the weight of interest groups on congress, or simply on the defence of its interests by a great power that is shaken by the new global situation. all these areas will only progress if europe plays its full political role as a global actor in its own right, in a partnership between equals - to use the commissioner's expression - and takes full responsibility. in this respect, i must say that there is a certain confusion in the european attitude and sometimes even a certain naivete, including in this parliament, and that the approach to the idea of the transatlantic single market, that old whim of sir leon brittan when he was commissioner, is dangerous. this issue of trade barriers is being dealt with as if it were only a technical problem. of course, economic and trade exchanges between the united states and europe are important for jobs, for companies. we need to develop them. first, though, they are not really in danger. secondly, when there is a conflict, it is either a matter of defending our economic interests - i am thinking of airbus - or it is a matter of challenging our health and environmental rules - in the case of hormone-treated beef, for example, or chlorinated chicken - and so we must not subordinate our own internal model, our model of society, our environmental model, our development model, to the improvement of economic relations, as if they were an end in themselves. we must be able to combine the two, and we must not dissolve our political autonomy in the search for a partnership which is a laudable objective in itself.
mr president, i understand very well the argument put forward by the rapporteur, which led to the first vote on amendment no 812. but if this was a purely procedural argument, the vote in favour of amendment 812 did not necessarily imply the lapse of amendment 70. it is customary in parliamentary assemblies to vote on amendments which are further removed from the original text, as requested by mr capoulas santos. we are making a derogation for the reasons set out by the rapporteur.
mr president, while various institutes and programmes, all of which are politically dominant in their communication, education or rehabilitation of the population, have received billions of euros, a procedural trick has deprived our milk producers of the aid they were entitled to expect. we have two amendments: amendment no 812, which perhaps had the council's approval for only eur 300 million, and amendment no 70, for eur 600 million. it falls within the meaning that amendment 70 should have been put to the vote first. the text of rule 61 (2) is very clear: 'if two or more mutually exclusive amendments apply to the same part of the text, the one which deviates the most from the original text shall have priority and shall be put to the vote first'. the rapporteur has invoked an informal regulation, but the formal regulation takes precedence over the so-called informal regulations, and this procedure was used to declare void the second amendment which raised the appropriation to 600 million. this is a scandal!
in writing. i am voting in favour of amendment no 812 from block 3 in order not to penalise the aid to dairy farmers, however ridiculous it may be (eur 280 million). but it is intolerable that the adoption of this amendment should lead to the rejection of amendment no 70 which provides for aid of eur 600 million instead of eur 280 million, as requested by the parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development. i am against this rule of the so-called budget at the expense of the farmers.
in writing. while cohesion policy plays a key role in the fight against the economic crisis and climate change, the council had proposed to reduce payment appropriations for it significantly in 2010. conscious of the importance of european funds and the expectations on the ground, it was essential that the european parliament should reinstate, and in some cases even increase, the amounts previously suggested by the european commission. this vote is the expression of the political europe we need, the europe which is capable of making budgetary choices that ensure a bright future for solidarity, competitiveness and growth, and this in the service of the citizens. today meps have confirmed their support for a european cohesion policy that can really achieve its ambitions. i also approve the general approach of the reports by mr surján and mr maňka on the draft budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, and i therefore strongly endorse their adoption.
in writing. i voted in favour of the first reading of the 2010 budget, which amounts to €127.5 billion in payments, with the hope that the second reading will allow us to achieve more ambitious results, in particular on the resources allocated to a recovery plan that is responsive to the challenges facing us in terms of jobs, social cohesion, climate change and the fight against poverty. i was particularly concerned with defending support for micro-credit, which is a priority for the socialists, by giving the social economy the means to act, while maintaining the integrity of the progress programme. the resources of this budget are still limited, partly because of the limited financial prospects. the debate on the new budgetary perspectives will have to be fought vigorously.
in writing. i voted in favour of new anti-crisis measures on milk prices to support producers who are today struggling in a particularly difficult context for their profession. these measures are late, as dairy farmers have been talking about their difficulties since last spring. the budget of €280 million proposed by the member states is insufficient, we must be more ambitious and support €600 million in aid to help our producers get out of the slump they are in. i remain entirely concerned about the future of this sector because nothing is being done to free producers from the grip of market mechanisms alone, and this is despite the fact that the european court of auditors has announced the need to have instruments for managing the milk market at the risk of calling into question milk production in many vulnerable areas and ignoring that it is on products with high added value that europe can position itself on the world market.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the internal borders of the european union have been abolished without, at the same time, or even before, the control of the external borders having been strengthened and the security instruments originally provided for, albeit minimal, being fully operational, is a real problem. subject to the principle of reality, we will not oppose this resolution which is concerned about the delays caused by the new systems for the exchange of information in criminal matters and visas. but in fact, all this is a false problem: the real problem is schengen itself, its pseudo-acquis now included in the treaties, and the policies pursued by brussels on visas, immigration, the movement of people... and today, legal and illegal immigration is pouring into europe, and insecurity is exploding with ever greater violence, because nations have been stripped of the right to control their own borders. schengen has fostered the growth of crossborder crime and the illegal flows of people and goods, which are themselves more or less legal, without any real benefit to europeans. so at least, until those systems are operational, you can activate the backup clause and restore controls!
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as usual, this resolution reflects the supposedly good feelings of this house on human rights: the european union is supposed to enlighten all of humanity with its conceptions of democracy, to finance democratic developments in all countries, etc. how can it be credible if it applies so little or none of the safeguard clauses which exist on this subject in all its external trade agreements, when it continues to trade or finance, come what may? how can it be credible, given the way it is acting in europe itself, imposing on the peoples a european constitution, renamed the lisbon treaty, which some have clearly said they do not want? and how can you, ladies and gentlemen of the european left, be credible after yesterday's lamentable masquerade about italy, where you showed sectarianism and partisanship on an unprecedented scale?
in writing. i supported the european parliament's opinion on the outline of the future eu diplomatic service. i hope that the european external action service (eeas) will embody a community approach and enable the eu to exercise its diplomatic influence in an effective and democratic way. the eeas should be administratively and budgetarily within the commission and formally part of the commission. i also hope that the new commissioner for development will be able to retain his full autonomy and safeguard his prerogatives in relation to this service, as opposed to the idea that the latter could concentrate powers in areas relating to the external action of the european union, including trade policy and the enlargement of the european union. it is important that parliament's voice is heard by the council, which should set out the broad lines of this new body at its meeting on 29-30 october 2009.
in writing. i did not take part in the vote because i reject the idea of further strengthening our economic relations with the united states. the eu-us partnership is not the most important for europe, nor is it the one needed by the doha cycle: the eu needs to diversify its partners if it is to maintain as much independence as possible. to do this, it must increase its agreements with developing countries. rather than an americanization of european standards, we must give priority to the emergence of a multipolar development model in which europe will finally regain its full place and meaning.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i spoke in brussels two weeks ago during the debate on the mini-session. i shall not therefore go back on my speech. my colleagues have already expressed a number of points. i would like to welcome the fact that all the political groups in this parliament are able to respond today jointly to the call made by guinean civil society, condemning the repression of the peaceful demonstration organised on the occasion of guinea's independence, which has been organised by the military junta in power since last december. this guinean civil society calls us to help and it would be totally unacceptable for the european union to be able to pay, in the framework of the fisheries agreement, sums which we know today would go directly into the pockets of the ruling military junta and not to the benefit of the guinean fishermen, as provided for in the texts. the guinean regime is the most corrupt regime in the world today. i am not saying this, but the bodies responsible for monitoring the situation in this area are. i therefore very much hope that we can all vote together on the whole joint resolution, including the paragraph calling for the suspension of the fisheries agreement, and i hope that we will be followed on this matter by the council and the commission.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, guinea is currently being shaken by dramatic events which shock international opinion and flout the law. on 28 september 2009, the military junta led by captain dadis camara brutally suppressed a peaceful demonstration involving all opposition parties. the cotonou agreements establish relations between the european union and its acp partners on the basis of respect for human rights and democratic principles. the unilateral decision of captain dadis camara to postpone the elections and to refuse to raise the issue of his candidacy for the presidency of guinea constitutes a serious breach of the commitments made to hold free and transparent elections within one year. the european union must therefore act without delay in accordance with the enduring principles and values on which it is based in order to put an end to this violence, which is a violation of human rights. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the compromise resolution is in full accordance with our values and principles, but i would like to stress in particular article 10 of the text, namely the suspension of the protocol to the fisheries agreement between the european union and the republic of guinea until the democratic process has been initiated. i hear voices asking whether such a decision would not have disastrous socioeconomic consequences for the population. but in the face of the violence of 28 september last, we must recognize that the guinean authorities have little concern for the living conditions of their citizens and that they offer us no other solution than firmness. since its independence in 1958, guinea has known only dictatorial regimes.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 28 september the people of guinea demonstrated to demand that the commitments they had made be respected, that free and democratic elections be held. he was the victim of the worst repression by a regime that was already devoid of any legitimacy and that, on that day, lost all dignity. men repressed, women gutted with bayonets, raped, political opponents, trade unionists tortured, martyred. the european union must stand today alongside the african union, alongside the cdao, alongside the united nations, in order not to accept that this crime goes unpunished and above all to stand alongside the guinean people. this country, which is rich in resources, can never use them for its development as long as corrupt dictatorships can appropriate these resources for the benefit of a clan. i therefore welcome the firmness announced by the european commission, the firmness on which parliament can now rely. we cannot balance narrow economic interests against the commitments made by the european union's partners, particularly those who signed the cotonou agreement: respect for human rights, respect for democratic principles. today we have a commitment to the people of guinea: to stand by them in their struggle for freedom and democracy.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for months the sri lankan government has been keeping a lid on the situation of tamil civilians, impeding access to foreign media and humanitarian organisations. colombo has been holding in detention since march 2009, in complete violation of international law and human rights, almost all civilians who fled fighting between the army and the tamil tigers. last july, the sri lankan government held more than 280,000 people in 30 army-held camps in the northeast of the island. refugees are only allowed to leave for emergency medical care, usually accompanied by a military escort. in some camps, more than 1,000 people die every week, mostly from dysentery. the living conditions are terrible. president rajapakse said last week that only 100,000 tamil refugees would be released. the european union is calling on the sri lankan government to take all necessary steps to ensure that the civilian population is not subject to any further violence.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon has been ratified by the 27 member states of europe and has an obligation to achieve results. the institutions are obliged to deliver results, in particular by the rapid establishment of positions of responsibility. obligation to deliver on climate and energy. the first is the obligation to achieve results, and the second is the obligation to restore the economy. with the signature of the czech president, the process of ratification of the lisbon treaty has finally been completed. thank you to fredrik reinfeldt. the epp group, which has made a great deal of its mark on this treaty, is naturally pleased with this development, but it is now time to stop monopolizing the european public debate on the institutions, which are only a tool in the service of political ambitions, and to focus on these ambitions. that is why my group asks you, mr reinfeldt, to do your utmost to get an agreement as soon as possible on the names of the president of the council and the high representative, and that is why my group asks you, mr barroso, as soon as the member states have nominated their candidates, to allocate their powers as soon as possible, before they are questioned by the european parliament, in the context of hearings which we want to be as thorough as possible. i am not going to tell you, mr president of the council and mr president of the commission, that the debate on the profile of these personalities is of interest only to the brussels microcosm. again, what do our fellow citizens want? we must solve their unemployment, credit and training problems, the copenhagen climate conference will be full of surprises and we must ensure that the winter of 2009-2010 is not marked by gas supply problems which are putting half the continent in an impossible situation. we, the european institutions, and especially you, mr reinfeldt, are therefore obliged to make the train of europe run at the speed of the tgv and not to continue at the speed of the omnibus! everyone in this chamber knows the difficulties of the task, the difficult balance that you have to find between political sensitivity, geographical origin, concern for parity and availability of personalities. but it is your duty to finalise an agreement in the council as soon as possible, just as it is the duty of parliament and the parliamentary groups to decide on these choices in a responsible manner and with due regard for the general european interest. i still hope that this will be one of the successes of the swedish presidency, but for that to happen we must act quickly, very quickly. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, even more than the institutions, time is running out on the climate, with the copenhagen conference just a few weeks away. i would like to commend in particular the responsible attitude of the european council, which, while reaffirming its commitment to making the fight against global warming and the reduction of co2 a quantified and planned objective, expects our partners to commit themselves with the same determination. it would be a very bad tactic for europe to throw all its cards before copenhagen and let its american, chinese, indian and other partners lead the dance. the united states, china and india are now world powers which must also shoulder their responsibilities. europe is taking its own steps, but it cannot do it alone for the planet. in copenhagen, a political agreement will not be enough. what counts is the commitment of the states in figures. i was talking about the obligation to achieve results. this obligation concerns first and foremost economic recovery and employment. the two are linked. although there are prospects for a return to low growth, the question is whether the recovery in activity will be accompanied by employment and whether it is based on sound fundamentals, in particular on a market that is both open, regulated and non-protectionist. these are the real concerns of europeans, and this must be the number one concern of europe and its member states, beyond questions of stewardship. we saw it today: 20 years ago, it was men who volunteered to bring down the wall. i also ask you, mr reinfeldt, to make the heads of state and government change their minds!
mr president, climate change has already killed 300,000 people and we consider inaction a crime against humanity. we know there is an emergency, we know there is no plan b, and yet today the negotiation is deadlocked. it is easy to say that the united states is to blame, but we consider that europe's responsibility is also immense. unfortunately, she is no longer, as the prime minister claims, the leader of the climate negotiation. to extend the current european commitments to the whole planet would mean 4° of global warming by the end of the century, 4° of global warming! this is unacceptable and it is no longer enough, as president barroso also claims, to hide from the mere legislative nature of this commitment. independent studies now show that japan, norway and switzerland are prepared to make greater efforts than europe. on the other hand, the emerging countries, china, south africa, brazil and indonesia, are also making commitments in domestic matters that go beyond what the scientific community requires of them. if there is a lesson to be learned from mr havel's speech, it is the lesson of modesty and the lesson of realism. let us stop pretending that nothing is happening outside europe, that the world has not changed since kyoto and that europe is still very much ahead of the international community. by refusing to take account of the demands of the european parliament and in particular of its committee on the environment, the council has taken on a very heavy responsibility, that of the failure in copenhagen. it is not too late, europe can take the lead again by immediately moving to 30% for its reduction target and by providing at least 30 billion in support to the countries of the south. by doing this, we'll take the south and we'll take a deal from the americans.
mr president, thanks to the tenacity of the swedish presidency, to which i am grateful, we have the treaty of lisbon. but a treaty like this is not a project, it is a tool, a toolbox for the european project, and it is therefore up to the men and women who are driving the institutions - the commission, its president, the council - and ourselves here to make good use of these tools in the future at the end of a transition period which has been very long - too long. because we are now better equipped to face three major challenges, in the face of which, ladies and gentlemen, we will all play a part, not only in the credibility of the european union, but, to use the words of václav havel just now, in its sovereignty. the first challenge is that of the crisis from which we must not - from which we cannot - emerge as we entered it, as if nothing had happened. there are lessons to be learned in our dialogue with the united states in particular, in terms of governance, solidarity, transparency and regulation of the world economy, and for us europeans there are lessons to be learned in safeguarding - i use this word deliberately - the consolidation of the internal market, in the 'reconciliation of the market and the social sector', to use a word i take from mario monti, to whom president barroso has usefully entrusted a mission on this subject. the second challenge is that of green growth. in kyoto we took the lead in this area, thanks to the european commission. we must maintain this position, naturally ensuring that our partners, the other major countries and regions, adopt a reciprocal attitude. and then, the third challenge is for us to be at the table, not "behind the table", but "at the table" of those who will decide the order or the disorder of the world in the next twenty years. it is not easy when we are 27 nations, but it is vital, unless we accept, and i personally do not accept, to be subcontractors or to be influenced by other countries. that is why we have great confidence in the future work of the high representative, who will be responsible for creating a genuine common diplomatic and strategic culture. madam president, the sooner we are ready, the better for the citizens of europe. that is why we look forward with confidence to the decisions you will take.
in writing. following the negotiations at the european council on 29 and 30 october and the decision of the czech constitutional court on 3 november, the president of the czech republic, mr vaclav klaus, signed the treaty of lisbon. it will now be able to apply, providing the institutions with a high representative for foreign affairs and a permanent president of the council for two and a half years. the structure of the new commission, as well as the choice of the personalities who will occupy the posts of president of the council or high representative for foreign affairs, are crucial. the choice of the president of the council is crucial because it is he who, for two and a half years, will embody europe. and in a time of globalisation and intercontinental power relations, the role of high representative for foreign affairs is of undeniable strategic importance. on 19 november, an extraordinary european council will meet to negotiate the appointments. we are at a turning point in european history. the choices you make, ladies and gentlemen, heads of state and government, will determine the europe you want tomorrow. so be ambitious, because europe must be dynamic, willing, efficient and political if it is to continue to move forward.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since its adoption and the passionate debate that has surrounded it, the services directive has fallen into a certain anonymity, but we must be particularly vigilant in the crucial phase of its transposition. i wonder about the interpretation of the provisions of article 2 of the directive relating to the exclusion of social services from its scope. concepts such as 'aid to persons in need' or 'authorised providers' seem restrictive in relation to the definition of social services in some states, and i am concerned that a deliberately strict interpretation may be used to justify the inclusion of whole sections of these services in the scope of the directive. the exclusion of these services is a key element of the text and a guarantee for citizens of the protection of the european social model. i hope that some states, including france, will not take advantage of the transposition to liberalize social services under the false pretext of complying with european laws. these problems of taking services of general interest into account demonstrate the need for european legislation of their own and not to stick to a default definition in a market services directive.
in writing. before any implementation of the directive, the european parliament should carry out a cross-cutting assessment of the human and social impact of its application, taking into account in particular the consequences of the crisis we are going through. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. recently, a professional agricultural organization revealed that the french authorities were proposing to set up employment agencies in eastern european countries for agricultural workers who were paid less and had less social protection than french workers. the transposition of the services directive must not lead to the implementation of such practices which lead to the bottom-up of social europe. we are also very concerned about the threats to the gis (general interest services) as a result of the case law of the european court of justice. we therefore continue to want another european legislative framework which will enhance and develop public services in particular.
the author's substitute. - mr president, in the absence of mr reul, i will remind the commission of the question we are asking. in accordance with the legal basis of article 165 of the treaty, the council recommendation on measures to combat neurodegenerative diseases requires consultation of parliament. what we want to know is whether the council can confirm its intention to adopt conclusions on this issue at the competition council on 3 december 2009. and since parliament is consulted on the commission's proposal, is the council prepared to take parliament's opinion into account in drawing up its conclusions? secondly, when we have any subsequent initiatives on joint programming of research activities, can the council confirm its view that such initiatives should in principle be adopted using the same legal basis? i would remind you that we have drafted a resolution. this resolution is supported by all the political groups and is important because, quite simply, it highlights the challenges of population ageing - the challenges which are the reason why we now have more than 7 million people in europe with alzheimer's disease and, according to forecasts, this figure is expected to double in the next 20 years. planning, investment and cooperation in this area are therefore essential to bring the social costs of these diseases under control and to offer hope, dignity and a healthier life to the millions of people affected and their families. these health and social problems affecting the whole of europe require coordinated action to ensure the effectiveness of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for those affected. particular attention should be paid to supporting the research and innovation work of public and private actors to find new cures and prevent the development of these diseases. health research is still far too fragmented at european level and public-private partnerships need to be increased. the example of the innovative medicines initiative, which came into force in february 2008, should not remain a one-off experience. i would like to conclude by saying that this is a real race against time, because we must prevent as much as possible. research today tells us that there are already avenues for early diagnosis. it is on these concrete issues that our citizens are waiting for signals from the europe of health, which must provide guarantees and anticipate the evolution of diseases due to ageing.
madam president, president václav havel's speech to this house highlighted one of the principles on which the european union is founded: solidarity between human beings. we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, that wall of shame. after november 9, 1989, we were told that humanity was finally going to be emancipated. democracy and human rights were to be extended to the whole planet, breaking down walls, erasing borders between peoples. but for a wall that has fallen, how many others have been erected on our continent! the walls erected, as in ceuta and melilla, to prevent the arrival of men and women fleeing war, poverty or global warming, the walls of detention centres, from the gates of our cities to the libyan desert, via lampedusa, where even children are being locked up in the name of the return directive. let us tear down the walls of fortress europe, let us build bridges, not walls... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to ask you about the problem of vaccination against h1n1 influenza. at the moment, at the level of members and assistants, people are being asked to get vaccinated, and i would like to share with you a number of concerns. first, what is the risk/benefit ratio? so far, the benefits are small, as it is not a flu that causes a lot of deaths - much less than seasonal flu. on the other hand, there is a considerable backlog of risks, and i would like to deal in particular with the problem of adjuvants. i would like to point out something rather curious: the use of squalene in adjuvants has been banned in the united states, but the european medicines agency has authorized it since most vaccines contain squalene. the second thing is that the european medicines agency has confirmed to us that there have been no clinical trials on children and pregnant women and that they only have an extrapolation from the prototype. so i think that maybe we need more harmonization.
madam president, i would like to draw the attention of the commission and parliament to the proposals for natura 2000 sites at sea which the french government has just submitted to the european authorities. these excluded the antifer dam near étretat but compensated by extending the perimeter to 12 nautical miles. this decision facilitates the establishment by poweo of a methane terminal at antifer and forces an offshore wind farm project off fécamp, despite the support of local elected officials, the population and even fishermen. a proposal supported by local actors for a six-mile zoning along the entire coastline and including antifer is scientifically established and consistent for the territory. three points: where is the commission in its examination of the zoning proposals? does it endorse them when they go against scientific advice and regional social, economic and cultural activities? and, with the copenhagen summit approaching, can europe decently endorse a choice that favours gas energy at the expense of the development of renewable energies?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to sound the alarm about the low rate of programming and payment of erdf, esf and cohesion fund appropriations. we are a long way from having programmed half the funds available. as regards payments, only 9.62% of the 347 billion euro of regional policy was paid to project promoters. all countries are affected, some more than others. spain, luxembourg and sweden must do everything possible to catch up with the countries which are leading the way in paying out european funds, such as the baltic states, ireland and slovenia. the european union's regional policy is one of the most useful to our citizens. it ensures economic, social and territorial cohesion by co-financing concrete and often indispensable projects. i therefore call for the involvement of the national managing authorities. at the same time, it seems to me essential that in times of economic crisis, european rules should be adapted to the major difficulties.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that what the commissioner has just said provides a real answer to the question that has been asked. the european union does not make funds available without conditions. these conditions were mentioned: the quality of public spending, the objectives of sustainable development, employment policy, climate change, but also, of course, the need to respond as quickly as possible to the shortcomings of the previous management, so that these countries that are being helped can get to the right level. but in a crisis such as the one we are experiencing, i believe that we should not exaggerate the conditionality. the governments of the countries receiving european aid must be trusted to put in place the necessary provisions and to avoid, as the commissioner has said, provisions which could be regressive or go back to the past. of course, social expenditure is high and must be maintained, but again we must trust the member states to take the necessary measures to restore the situation and not to engage in piecemeal controls which would be ineffective anyway. it is in the context of possible new aid that the way in which the member states have used european aid must be assessed and it is at this point that the consequences of measures which would have been inappropriate, particularly in the social field, may be drawn.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, you will remember very well that on 24 april, as my colleague alejandro cercas recalled, when we accepted, validated and ratified the increase in the balance of payments facility, we did so on two conditions. firstly, that such aid be subject to conditions, particularly in social matters, and secondly that there be transparency vis-à-vis this parliament as to the conditions under which such agreements have been concluded with the member states in question. i therefore believe that the debate we are having tonight is a fair, useful, democratic debate and that it must prove effective. we are in an absolutely critical situation from the point of view of the european union and we can see that this crisis is undermining the very foundations of solidarity between member states and particularly with regard to certain member states. the news from romania only aggravates this situation, where we are in a very difficult situation, given the political uncertainty caused by the consequences of this crisis in particular. but i would not like us to repeat here the mistakes of the past, and in particular those we have been able to describe as the mistakes of the imf, which, some ten years ago, applied recipes which, in fact, aggravated the problem. and i strongly disagree with my colleague jean-paul gauzès when he urges us not to do a little bit of checking and to wait for the next request before we look at the quality of the use of aid. no, you can't! it is at the moment when aid is committed that conditionality can be defined and europe has paid enough, it seems to me, in many areas, not to examine the conditionality of aid to turn a blind eye in this case. it is unacceptable today in the european union that the most vulnerable should pay for the adjustment policies. i do not think that the commission is being accused of mismanaging latvian policy. no one in this parliament, commissioner, has told you that this is the way we want to go. but we cannot accept that the commitment of the european union budget, of our solidarity with latvia, should be at the expense of the most vulnerable because we do not believe that this is the way to restore solidarity and the equilibrium of the latvian economy.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, most economists now say that the crisis is largely due to the transfer of wealth created by labour to capital, to profits. and, in general, it is also agreed that it is in countries where social protection systems and public services have been maintained that the populations have suffered relatively less from the crisis. the problem we are faced with tonight is the nature of the conditions you set for granting european or international monetary fund aid to the people. these can no longer be made conditional on the application of structural adjustment plans reducing social expenditure, training expenditure, privatising the public sectors, including social services of general interest. that is what has become ineffective today and we must admit that. all this will only worsen the crisis, unemployment and poverty. that is why we believe that the criteria for this conditionality must be reversed and that european public funds or the international monetary fund may be conditionalized, combined with a new system of credits and granted according to new criteria aimed at and encouraging a new distribution of wealth to increase wages, pensions, social minimum wages, maintain a high level of social protection, guarantee work for all. in the end, it is social progress that goes hand in hand with economic efficiency and not the other way around.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after a military coup and the removal of the legitimate president, the san josé agreement might have seemed like good news. that hope is now dead. by organising a government of national unity himself, the putschist micheletti persisted in lawlessness and authoritarianism. the european union must strongly condemn this attitude and call for the immediate return of president zelaya to office. in the present situation, there can be no elections organized by an illegal dictatorship. the vote of 29 november cannot be recognised. the oas has already done so, but we must refuse to send observers. while the opposition has withdrawn, we refuse to take into account the result of elections that have become puppet elections. we are concerned about the many human rights violations that have been reported to us. more than ever, europe must stand firm for democracy. we refuse to make any deal with an illegal government. the gsp+ agreements must be suspended. if the conflict continues, the time for sanctions will have to come. we have a responsibility to ensure that millions of hondurans can make the choice of democracy and that latin america does not sink again into the era of pronunciamientos.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is not our first debate on the marking of origin, but, not doubting the benefits of repetition, i will allow myself to insist, as do my colleagues, on the need for european regulations on 'made in'. in fact, despite the opinion expressed by this parliament in 2005 and then in 2007 by the vote on the resolution by our colleague enrique barón crespo, the lack of a majority in the council has always prevented the adoption of this regulation. however, such a text would represent a fundamental step forward, not only for european consumers but also for our industries. by indicating the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries, consumers would be fully informed of the characteristics of the goods they are buying. in sensitive sectors such as clothing, leather goods and furniture, creating the conditions for an informed consumer choice is a key issue for those companies which have chosen to maintain production that preserves know-how and employment in europe. i therefore welcome the proposal you have just made, madam commissioner, but i would like to stress that this proposal must remain ambitious. the need for a majority of member states should not be at the expense of our ultimate objective. it would be unacceptable, for example, if the origin marking only applied to finished products, so that it would be possible to import all the components separately, assemble them in europe and call them 'made in europe'. i would also like to support the commission's efforts to get the most out of such a regulation. thus, without reversing a repeated call for the improvement and simplification of the rules of origin, the possibility of creating a pan-euro-mediterranean marking would be a considerable step forward in strengthening integrated channels around the mediterranean and south-south trade. finally, i would like to stress that the powers of the committee on international trade will be considerably increased as part of the implementation of the lisbon treaty. the commission can therefore count on the full commitment of members to follow closely the discussions on this regulation, which is essential for european consumers and workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of 'made in' must not be a simple matter of labelling. it must quickly become a strong concept of respect for the most advanced rules in the field of know-how, workers' rights, sustainable development and environmental protection, and the expression of a responsible economic attitude. while globalisation means that everyone is able to produce, the unbridled pursuit of profit alone is constantly translated into repeated violations of the rights of workers and peoples, as well as the destruction of their environment. the copy, which was once the prerogative of luxury brands, now covers sectors as diverse as pharmacy, automotive and aeronautics, with the notion of profit always at the back of the mind, while consumer safety is seriously under threat. at the same time, tens of thousands of jobs are disappearing. with the introduction of a 'made in europe' concept, we could enable consumers to make an informed choice, to take action to win new rights. yes to respect for the rights of employees and environmental rules, our know-how and responsible management. yes, above all and lastly, to the maintenance and defence of industrial jobs in europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, mr ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on behalf of the epp group on the work she has done and the spirit of collaboration she has shown throughout the preparation of this report. we are voting today on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman, which was presented on 21 april. the ombudsman, appointed by the european parliament, gives us, through this report, the full results of his inquiries into complaints concerning instances of maladministration in our european institutions or agencies. its most important role is to guarantee the principles of transparency and good administration and thus to provide genuine protection for our citizens in cases of injustice, discrimination, abuse of power, lack of response and delay in providing information. in this report we see the growing importance of the number of complaints lodged with the ombudsman. most of them concern the european commission, which has the largest number of officials, but mainly for cases of alleged lack of transparency. the commission is the guardian of the treaties. the report was approved by a large majority in the committee on petitions on 1 october. our ombudsman has exercised his functions in an active and balanced manner in relation to the examination and handling of complaints. in particular, it has always been able to maintain good relations with and between the institutions, which has helped the institutions or agencies in question to accept an amicable solution or to settle certain disputes, with a few exceptions. the ombudsman also serves as a resource for the institutions. it helps them to improve their performance by drawing their attention to areas for improvement, with the ultimate aim of improving the service they provide to our citizens. the report we adopted in committee underlines and recalls the importance of the adoption of a code of good administrative behaviour by all the european institutions and agencies, a code which was approved by the european parliament eight years ago. this repeated appeal by our committee must not go unanswered. the citizens of europe deserve no less. the right to good administration by the institutions and bodies of the european union is a fundamental right under article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the union included in part ii of the lisbon treaty, which is now no longer a fiction but a reality. finally, i think it is necessary to recall that the ombudsman retains a right of review of the commission's work and must ensure that the commission makes appropriate use of its discretion to initiate infringement proceedings or propose sanctions.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the role of the ombudsman, and therefore the examination of his report, is an important element for the european institutions. it is one of the indicators of the perception of our institutions by our citizens. a few months after the european elections, in which we all regretted the low turnout and even the rise in abstention, the interest that parliament is paying to this report is therefore essential. this is especially true when it comes to following the recommendations made there. 355 complaints (+ 6% increase over the previous year) is very little. very little compared with the 500 million inhabitants of europe. we could welcome this and conclude that it is an indication of the satisfaction of our fellow citizens. we know that's not true. in this respect, the fact that most of the complaints relate to the lack of transparency in our institutions is also revealing. we know what it's like coming out of the campaign. our citizens are not familiar with our institutions and do not know how they work. they do not know what europe is for and it is no wonder that most of the complaints are about the commission, because for our fellow citizens the commission is the european union. however - i am caricaturing, but hardly - the communication posts are heavily budgeted, and since the elections it has been said: "we must increase communication, strengthen it to improve the knowledge of our fellow citizens". i agree that we need to improve communication, but i think too much communication kills information. i shall be happy to support the proposal which our socialist colleague has just made to us for a common site which will help to direct the citizen to the variety of information to which he has access. this report is a sign of the proper functioning of our institutions, of good administration. that's been said before. it's a sign of our governance. it is therefore essential to follow up its recommendations, both for the report and on a daily basis, and in particular for special reports. thank you very much, mr. ombudsman, for your work with your fellow citizens. thank you very much to your team. you can count on our support to enhance and facilitate your action.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would first like to take this opportunity to thank president barroso and commissioner šemeta for having decided to postpone the publication of the commission's proposals on future budgetary policy and on the update of the financial perspective until the next half-year. the european council and the parliament had agreed that this update should take place in 2008-2009, but that was four years ago, which is an eternity. in the meantime, there have been the treaty of lisbon, the first irish referendum, the financial crisis, the delay in the entry into force of the new treaty, etc. it is therefore wiser to entrust the new commission with the task of presenting its political programme and the financial version of it at the same time, in a few months' time. however, since the lisbon treaty will come into force on 1 december next, we need to adopt very quickly the transitional measures necessary to move from one treaty to another in the budgetary field. the swedish presidency has proposed that the conciliation committee on 18 november should be the occasion for a political agreement between the three institutions on this subject. it is therefore up to parliament today to give its delegation to the conciliation committee a negotiating mandate. four points must be settled in a very short time; the commission has already made a number of proposals. first, the transfer procedure: the abolition of the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure requires the adoption of a single procedure, placing the two budgetary authorities on an equal footing, without compromising the necessary flexibility of management by the european commission. secondly, the additional budgets: from the beginning of 2010 an initial additional budget will be needed to give all the institutions concerned the financial means to exercise the new powers provided for by the lisbon treaty. we therefore need a simplified procedure, inspired by the new procedure provided for in the treaty for the main budget itself. thirdly, the timetable for preparatory meetings between the three institutions, which we call the pragmatic timetable: this is an area where we do not need to innovate in relation to previous practice. fourthly, the procedure for using the provisional twelfths formula in the unlikely but still possible event that we do not reach agreement on the 2010 budget: on this point, it seems to us that the provisions of the lisbon treaty are sufficiently precise that no supplement is necessary. your committee on budgets adopted these proposals by a very large majority. i would ask the house to do the same, so that we can conclude the negotiations with the council and the commission in due time.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i will not abuse this excessive right you have given me. i would like to thank all the spokesmen of the groups who support the main proposals in the report and to assure all the groups that we will continue to carry out this negotiation with the european commission and the council in the same team spirit. i think that the debate has shown that there is a very large majority in favour of these principles. mrs andreasen has tabled a number of amendments - she is not here any more - which we cannot accept because we are in a state of emergency. i would remind you that as from 1 december there will be new institutions in the union: a president of the european council, a high representative with completely new powers, a service for external action of the union, and we will therefore have to take extremely rapid budgetary decisions if we want the new treaty to be able to apply on the date planned. unfortunately, we have already wasted a lot of time in getting an agreement by 27 countries, ratification by 27 parliaments or 27 peoples to bring the lisbon treaty into force by the end of the year and our duty now is to ensure that the transitional provisions can be worked out and implemented as quickly as possible. i agree with mrs gardiazábal rubial that the final agreement may not be as simple as we would like and as necessary, but we will try to ensure that it satisfies all the institutions and that it allows for the efficiency, transparency and democratic character that the european union so needs.
in writing. the systematic european policy of visa liberalisation is an ideological enterprise of destroying the external borders of the european union, after having destroyed the internal borders. the consequences are well known: an explosion in migration flows and cross-border trafficking, not to mention the extraordinary facilities afforded to terrorists of all kinds. the fact that we now want to include albania and bosnia in the list of countries whose nationals are exempt from visa requirements is an aberration. and it is even more unacceptable to try to include kosovo! and why not all the countries of the world, in the name of the free movement of people around the world, and in defiance of the most basic security measures that governments owe to their peoples! should we also recall the conditions of kosovo's alleged independence by means of a unilateral declaration? it is not necessary to mention that this independence is not even recognized by all the countries of the european union. finally, should we not also remember the tragic fate of the serbs of kosovo, who were persecuted in their ancestral land, which is now a colony?
in writing. i supported the fajon report on visa liberalisation for the western balkans because it is the responsibility of the european parliament to send a strong message to all the western balkan countries that we support them in their efforts to meet the criteria set by the european commission for visa liberalisation. this is already the case for serbia and montenegro, but albania and bosnia have not yet been given the green light. many young people in these countries feel as they once did, on the other side of the wall, young people in east germany. it is difficult to imagine today that young people from slovenia could not get to know europe and understand their future in the eu. the commission has thus met almost 90% of the criteria required by bosnia. we must move forward because the political situation could get worse if a strong message is not sent. finally, as regards kosovo, the only part of the balkans excluded from this process, it will really be necessary to provide a solution to this situation.
in writing. we do not refuse to validate the visa exemption requested for serbia, macedonia, montenegro, albania and bosnia and herzegovina. we reject this report because we cannot accept that we are forced to recognise kosovo as a state. spain, cyprus, greece, romania, slovakia and bulgaria are strongly opposed to it. so far there is no common eu position on this. the opening of negotiations with kosovo on visa liberalization, as called for in the report, implies recognition of the creation of the state of kosovo. this is totally contrary to respect for international law.
in writing. in favour of the abolition of short-stay visas, i voted for mrs fajon's report because it is in the right direction. this will mean that the majority of nationals of the states concerned will no longer be subject to the administrative hassle of embassies issuing visas. however, i regret that this exemption only applies to holders of biometric passports, which i consider to be incompatible with the protection of personal data and privacy. i am also shocked that only two of the three communities in bosnia and herzegovina, the serbs and the croats, benefit from this measure and that the residents of kosovo are excluded. the status of european citizens should not be used to settle the question of the status of the member states, let alone to reignite already high tensions. in the balkans, all eu nationals and citizens must be treated equally. the free movement of persons must be a fundamental right in europe.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, russia is the only country in the world which you have never been kind to and whose needs, needs and sensitivities you systematically hide. it is true that for almost 50 years the soviet yoke has been maintained over half of europe, that the tanks have repressed in blood the aspirations for freedom in budapest in 1956, in prague in 1968, in poland... when it existed! back in 1989, when the berlin wall fell, how many european leaders were hoping for a simple reform of communism and the maintenance of the status quo? as if the bloodiest dictatorship of the 20th century, with its 150 million deaths, could be reformed! but russia is not the ussr. it is a great country with which we must establish a special relationship. because we have common interests and mutual benefits to derive from these relationships. but above all because russia, unlike turkey, is unquestionably part of the geographical, cultural, spiritual and civilizational sphere of europe.
in writing. neurodegenerative diseases such as alzheimer's or parkinson's disease are a major contributor to long-term disability. they affect more than 7 million europeans, a figure that is likely to double in the coming decades as the population ages. that is why i support the implementation, at european level, of any mechanism to redouble efforts to deal with the effects of neurodegenerative diseases, in particular alzheimer's and parkinson's, both at the social and public health levels. there is currently no cure for neurodegenerative diseases, and this is one of the greatest challenges for europe in the field of mental health, which we must tackle with the most appropriate means.
in writing. i voted in favour of the paliadeli report on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman, mr nikiforos diamandouros, because it makes it possible on a daily basis to establish a decision-making system at european level that is as open as possible and as close as possible to the citizen. this is an extremely useful tool for citizens, businesses and other organisations across europe, when faced with cases of maladministration in the european institutions. i particularly welcome the fact that the revision of the ombudsman's statute, including the strengthening of his investigative powers, allows citizens to have full confidence in the ombudsman's ability to conduct a thorough investigation of their complaints, without restrictions.
in writing. the new budgetary procedures in the lisbon treaty are, institutionally speaking, probably what is really transforming the european union into a superstate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is particularly worrying for agriculture, which is no longer a compulsory expenditure and will no doubt be sacrificed to the clientelist whims of this house. beyond this fundamental problem, it is not acceptable to tinker with the immediate implementation of the new procedures. we cannot play with the money of european taxpayers in times of crisis on matters of political sensitivity. we need a financial regulation and an interinstitutional agreement negotiated in the form, and so much the worse if it takes time. in the meantime we must continue to apply the existing methods and procedures and refuse any amending budget or transfer which is not linked to imperative reasons.
mr president, on thursday i was in tunis for the trial of the poet and writer taoufik ben brik, who was charged in tunisia on obscure common law charges that do not fool anyone. since the "elections" in tunisia on 25 october, there has been an unleashing of violence and harassment of human rights defenders, on a scale, to know this country well, that i have never seen. on 25 october mr ben ali probably took note of the public's disapproval of him in tunisia, and this is happening in the general indifference of the embassies and the european commission, which unfortunately does not have the political visa to attend such trials. i think we need to be very clear today. we are guilty of failing to assist anyone in distress. what are we waiting for in the embassies and the european commission to call on mr ben ali in the strongest possible terms - in the name of the agreements that bind us and our reciprocal commitments with tunisia - about these actions which are absolutely contrary to our commitments?
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here again, this time for the last time, to discuss the telecoms package and, more specifically, the last cornerstone of my report on the framework, access and authorization directives. i would like to thank my colleagues, in particular my co-rapporteurs, pilar del castillo and malcolm harbour, the president of the conciliation committee, mr vidal-quadras, the chairman of the itre committee, mr herbert reul, and all the european parliament departments involved. i would also like to thank the commissioner for her involvement and support throughout this period, as well as her services, and i would also like to welcome the swedish presidency's willingness to conclude the negotiations on good terms. let's have a thought for ulrika barklund larsson. the vote tomorrow will be a very positive signal in the face of the expectation of a more comprehensive european industrial policy. as the agreement on second reading on 99% of the text has been maintained, i shall just return to the priorities we wanted to achieve. in particular, it is a matter of maintaining effective and sustainable competition, but also of making this competition useful for economic and social development by providing full coverage of the european territory in terms of access, broadband for all and everywhere, including better management of the radio spectrum, and by offering the highest rights to citizens who are consumers. this requires a coherent and operational framework for those who will have to use these directives regulators, berec and the commission , the provision of legal certainty, the encouragement of the investment needed to revive our economy and the dynamism of the market for operators, their consumers and their employees, and finally, the development of many and quality services, accessible to the greatest number, and at a fair price. it is important to stay within the terms of this agreement and unfortunately recent statements by some member states raise doubts about their commitment to this. i will join the commission in interpreting the outcome of our article 19 negotiations. for the record, the wording used in this article is closely linked to the debate on the mechanisms of articles 7 and 7a. it would be disappointing if the council, through non-binding statements, were to send the message that it wants to be the butter and the money of the butter, in a way, by denying the right balance of powers between the member states, berec and the commission, as is clear from the final compromise. finally, as regards the main point which led us to the conciliation procedure, namely amendment no 138, i would simply like to say that the result achieved is the maximum that parliament could have achieved with the legal basis which was ours, that of harmonizing the internal market. however, this result should not be taken lightly, as it offers all users of electronic connections a solid protection of their rights to privacy, the presumption of innocence, and to contradictory debate, whatever the type of procedure that would affect them, and this before any sanctioning measure. i also welcome the commission's willingness to take stock of the situation with regard to net neutrality in europe and to propose to parliament and the council appropriate instruments within the year, depending on the outcome of these observations. in conclusion, i would therefore invite everyone to think about the transposition of this package. i know that parliament, which is very keen on this package, will ensure that this transposition takes place in accordance with past agreements, and i will now listen very carefully to the speeches of my colleagues before taking the floor at the end of the debate.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i was pleased to hear you say, commissioner, that freedom of access to the internet should be guaranteed like other fundamental freedoms. it is precisely on this subject that we in the european parliament have fought to try to obtain the same level of guarantee, namely a preliminary trial before an impartial judge. we have not quite succeeded in doing so, but thanks to the work of our rapporteur we have, it seems to us, found the least bad solution. she's not perfect. it is not perfect because it will open the way to contentious debates which we would like to avoid, and if we had said things as clearly as i have just said, there would not have been any. unfortunately, we have not reached a compromise on this point. this means that we will have to revisit the issue of free access to the internet, net neutrality, how, in an open society like ours today, a certain amount of access to knowledge and information must be free of rights and free of access. all of this is connected. we have a first step, a first text which is fundamental, which is essential, and that is why, despite some reservations, i shall vote for it. however, much more will have to be done to safeguard freedoms, to ensure access to open science, to ensure access to open research, to ensure access to all works of the mind, while of course keeping in mind that literary and artistic property and research property must be safeguarded, but that new compromises will certainly have to be found in the years to come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 november parliament withdrew from the council the guarantee that any restriction on access to the internet could not be made without respecting certain conditions: a prior, fair and impartial procedure, the guarantee of the principle of the presumption of innocence and respect for private life, respect for the european convention on human rights. this agreement is a first step towards better protection of citizens in the face of the growing desire of certain states and private operators to banalise the principle of graduated response, recording and monitoring of digital exchanges on the net. but it's still not enough. accepting to restrict digital freedoms and go against net neutrality is not acceptable. this is contrary to the lisbon strategy and undermines the union's fundamental rights and values. as the only community institution directly elected by citizens, to protect their interests, parliament now has a moral and political duty to address this issue to define the rights and duties of internet users in order to guarantee their digital freedom and access to knowledge. we shall vote in favour of this text but we shall make sure that we go further tomorrow.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues who took part in this debate very warmly and say that they have indeed stressed the perilous, difficult nature of this final examination of the telecoms package, which was, in fact, suspended by an amendment which we had voted on several times and in a masterly manner in this house, but which was not accepted by the council. i agree with those who consider it a basis and not an end. we have not succeeded in this as in other areas. the commissioner has just emphasized this in her reply to us in connection with article 19. i wish we could go much further in how to implement an economic arbitration procedure at the level of the european regulators, but we could not necessarily get everything at once. we wanted to be operational, fair, balanced, and we wanted to show that if the internet and the digital society are driven by usage and mobility, then the rights of citizens should never be violated, despised or ignored. this is the first time that a text of this nature has introduced this reference in its first article, that is to say as a basic principle, and which links the internet and the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms, which, for us, gives somehow this particular nature to what we do when we legislate with the council and when we work on the drafting of texts with the commission. we believe that the knowledge society must be both respectful of citizens' rights, economically and socially positive, and open to a new cultural field. that's why we wanted the market to be able to do this, to have rights being talked about and guaranteed for citizen users, but also to have this extension of access, this connectivity for everyone. but that's also why we now have a famous work in front of us: copyright, net neutrality, spectrum. the european parliament will now answer. i want to say how fortunate i have been to work with my colleagues, and how happy i am that this compromise respects the vote we so strongly expressed together.
in writing. i am pleased to see this long and controversial work finally come to fruition, which shows the importance of the telecommunications sector, as an economic actor, but also as a central element of our present society. citizens communicate across borders every day, and our aim was to be able to guarantee the quality of these services, while ensuring that the fundamental rights of users are respected. i would like to congratulate catherine trautmann and the negotiating team on the compromise reached, which makes any sanction against users subject to a prior contradictory procedure. the commission also undertook to guarantee the neutrality of the networks and to combat anti-competitive discrimination by operators. this agreement will allow for the entry into force of many advances for consumers, sometimes bitterly negotiated. i would like to mention in particular the guarantees of access and location in the event of an emergency call (112), easier access for disabled people, improved information for contracts and billing, alerts in the event of abnormal consumption, the introduction of a maximum time limit for transferring numbers, or information in the event of a security breach concerning personal data.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i will be brief. it will deal first with the substance and then with the procedure, and i will repeat a little what has already been said very well by all the groups. if the building of an area of security, justice and freedom within the union is an imperative for all of us, and no doubt also a model of european democracy to be built, and if many of us consider that europol is a tool that can be adapted, we are all, however, committed to the fact that the pooling of resources - including human resources, but above all technical means to combat organized crime, against trafficking of all kinds - should be strictly organized with maximum guarantees of legal certainty, since we are touching the very essence of our power, the rights and freedoms of european citizens. on the procedure, at the risk of being redundant, i would like to say to the commissioner, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats, that all the work that has been done is not useless, but that it would be completely incomprehensible and misunderstood by our fellow citizens that, even though we have waited a long time for the implementation of the institutions linked to the lisbon treaty, we no longer have the patience to wait a few hours, or even a few days, to exercise our power as collector of the islands, to which we are particularly attached. for once in europe, it is urgent to wait a few weeks for a text that fits into our procedure and, like sophia in 't veld, i regret the absence of the council, because it is primarily the council that is being addressed. i therefore propose on behalf of my committee that we have a new legislative proposal.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will repeat what a number of my colleagues have said. the european parliament is urgently requested, before the lisbon treaty is implemented, to submit four texts on europol, which relate in particular to the protection of the confidentiality of data which europol may be required to transfer, including to third countries. we are unanimous in this parliament in condemning the way in which these texts have been handed to us on matters which will no doubt come under codecision after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. many of us believe that our citizens have a right to security and that the fight against terrorism is a priority. we must do everything possible to ensure that our fellow citizens do not live in constant fear of being the victims of attacks. it is therefore important that everything possible be done to strengthen police cooperation, but this must not be done under any conditions, and in particular not at the expense of the fundamental public freedoms of privacy, freedom of movement and freedom of opinion. i would add that crime prevention cannot be reduced to more and more repression. it is the honour of our democracies to always protect our freedoms and to only infringe upon them when absolutely necessary. police cooperation must therefore be carried out within a specific legal framework, which allows, in particular, to ensure the protection of the confidentiality of the data exchanged and the proper proportion of the data with the stated security objectives. that is why the gue/ngl group, together with all the other groups, is calling on the council and the commission to withdraw these proposals. and i regret the absence of the council.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, first of all, i would like to correct the information on the bulletin board. i have not joined the epp, i am still in the gue/ngl. at the request of the french government, we have before us a text to enable customs administrations to cooperate with europol and eurojust. here again we are in an area where there is no doubt that after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty we will be in the field of codecision. we therefore regret, as does europol, that the rush is taking precedence over the will to guarantee fundamental freedoms. in all these texts, we regret that the essential balance between security and respect for fundamental rights is increasingly being called into question, to the detriment of freedoms, and this for overall results which are not always clear to our fellow citizens. we regret that the position which the european parliament proposes we adopt on this text, which seeks to establish interconnections between customs, police and eurojust files, is more timid than on europol, because the dangers are the same and the protections laid down are even more fragile in the texts submitted to us. for example, how can we not be shocked by the fact that there is no clear limit on the length of time data can be retained? at a time when security policies in each of our countries are increasingly undermining our fundamental freedoms, we regret that the european parliament is not playing its full role as guarantor of fundamental freedoms and rights. some of the improvements i proposed in this respect, particularly on europol, were adopted. i welcome this and i thank my colleagues for it, but it is still insufficient, particularly in relation to the principles of proportionality and necessity, which must always prevail when rights and freedoms are at stake. that is why, if other amendments which are more protective of our citizens are not adopted, the gue/ngl group will abstain on this text.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, on 26 september 2009, 44 citizens' panels were organised in 38 countries representing different stages of development. 91% of the citizens, that is, the citizens of the world, felt that it was urgent to reach an agreement in copenhagen, and among them 93% of europeans. 89% thought that more than 25% of greenhouse gas emissions reductions in industrialised countries should be achieved, and 92% of europeans are on this line. we, the parliamentarians representing the peoples of europe, have a duty to weigh up, to meet the demand of our fellow citizens, but above all the responsibility we have, in order to be in the range of the ipcc reduction for 2020, between 25 and 40%. to achieve this, the 30% reduction target must be affirmed, as jo leinen has just said, with the necessary financial means, of course, estimated at 100 billion for 2020. a financial transaction tax is likely to be a necessary step towards this, as will transfers of green technology to the south. europe's leadership on this future-oriented issue must be expressed in the form of an agreement, but not an agreement at any price, that is to say, an agreement that is sold out in its objectives, without financial means, without control or constraint. better to do nothing than to make a vague commitment that will only be discussed later, as if the matter were settled. our responsibility is not just to be a co-debtor of the climate debt, it is to do everything we can to convince the only solution of common sense and to be a tireless advocate of the equitable and effective collective effort. in this respect, to say 30% is to give all the countries which have already proposed emission ceilings and floors the means to aim for the ceilings and not to stay at the floor. each of us will have to answer to the world public opinion and to future generations for the attitude we took in copenhagen. the attitude of the europeans must be clear, precise and extremely vigorous.
mr president, we know - and a number of scientific studies have shown this - that the emerging countries are making efforts today that are at least equivalent to those of europe in the run-up to 2020. we also know that, in the negotiations, increasingly through the emissions inventory, through the report on the measures taken, there is already a right of sight on the emerging economies. the world resources institute has published statistics showing that china, cumulatively since 1950, has about 70 tons per capita, while the united states has 810 tons and the 27-nation european union has 413 tons. we therefore ask you, please, to have the wisdom to use the european parliament's resolution as a negotiating mandate. that would be the best thing we can do for both the climate and the way out of the crisis in europe. i will then ask the epp group to have the intelligence and credibility to withdraw its amendment saying that emerging countries must do the same, make the same commitments as rich countries. it's not acceptable, it's not serious.
madam president, everyone is calling for an ambitious agreement in copenhagen today, but it is clear that the ambitions of the copenhagen summit have been revised downwards in recent weeks, in particular because of the reluctance of the united states and china. to prevent the global temperature from rising by more than 2 degrees by the end of the century, all countries must be prepared to accept the same binding obligations. but in our debates we are witnessing a race to the numbers, a race to the funding. i am asking that europe not be naive and that it be a realistic and firm negotiator vis-à-vis its partners who have not made significant reduction efforts. it would not be acceptable for the efforts of the most ambitious countries to be compromised by carbon leakage simply because of the lack of action or inadequacy of some. europe must not be naive about china and india. it is true that brazil and korea have already decided to commit themselves, but if europe wants to be an example, it cannot be at any price, and especially not at the price of its deindustrialization. the negotiations must be an opportunity to stimulate the development of new technologies and to enable significant funding for research and development. there is a risk that european knowledge will eventually be lost to the countries benefiting from technology transfers. so in copenhagen, it will be necessary - and it is a necessity - to create the conditions for sustainable trade between countries, based on mutual interests, while protecting the research and development investments of european companies. the success of this will be to promote the dissemination of technologies to developing countries in return for the recognition of intellectual property rights and the opening of markets to these technologies. we finally have a chance unheard of in europe. it is, while fighting climate change, to launch a real technological programme that will stimulate innovation and thus create new jobs.
madam president, mr president, commissioner, allow me to address some of the main points in our resolution, but also in the discussion we are going to have in the coming weeks in copenhagen. first, the first point, the fight against the increase in temperature. i have heard a number of my colleagues downplaying the magnitude of this global warming. but we must bear in mind that, worldwide, several hundred million human beings will become what may be called climate disasters because of this increase. copenhagen must put a stop to this temperature increase. secondly, we must have a binding agreement which states that greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by 30% by 2020 and by 80% by 2050. we must also ensure that there is some clarity in the financing. for the poorest countries, our resolution proposes 300 billion over the next 20 years. we have to go further. the figure of 500 billion has also been mentioned and here too we, the european union, must set an example. and then we must introduce a universal carbon tax with the possibility of a financial transaction tax and to conclude, i am very surprised at the double-talk of my colleagues in the epp in relation to what i hear in my country, in france, from the president of the republic, and again this morning, from minister borloo.
madam president, we all know, and we have all said, the importance of the copenhagen negotiations, but if we all hope for an agreement, we cannot accept an agreement at any price. if the conditions for an ambitious agreement are not met, i very clearly want the european union to be able to say no and refuse to sign a discount agreement. the european peoples we represent here are waiting for an agreement, an agreement which will make it possible to combat effectively all the climate changes we see around us every day. they will not be content with advertising effects, declarations of intent without figures, non-binding objectives on which it will be possible to wipe one's feet after the media spotlight has faded. in copenhagen, the states will have to commit themselves! the european union, the only continent to have seen its co2 emissions decline since 1990, the only continent to have made specific, binding and ambitious commitments for the future, cannot shoulder the burden of the effort alone. that is why, if other industrialized and emerging countries do not want to shoulder their share of the burden, we must draw the full consequences by introducing a tax at our borders to protect our industry from competition from those who decide not to participate in a global agreement. we europeans are demanding a little more from our industrialists every day. i want the climate package signed under the french presidency to be proof of that. i would like to see national initiatives, such as the carbon tax, which mr pargneaux has just welcomed, which are pushing for the introduction of an ecological tax. a sector such as transport, which is one of the biggest emitters of co2, even though some modes of transport, such as aviation, emit less greenhouse gases, is increasingly contributing to the fight against climate change. this is a sector which has been hit very hard by the crisis. if, as i hope, maritime and air transport are integrated into the negotiations in copenhagen, let us make sure that what is required of european industries is also required of those of other industrialized countries. in copenhagen, the eyes of world public opinion will be on its ruling class, and we say to them today, "do not let us down".
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the copenhagen summit is a historic opportunity to change the fate of the planet. we must reach decisions that are even more binding than those taken in kyoto. so we must call on our leaders to create an international organization like the wto, in charge of regulating climate change and environmental issues, to create a climate change adaptation fund - in addition, of course, to official development assistance - to create a carbon tax for shipping and air transport, as we must do for financial transactions. we see the urgent need for global environmental regulation, as well as financial markets and the internet. we have the opportunity to open this march of history with the environment. let us do it in the image of our highest human inspirations, otherwise we will appear as responsible ones with no grip on the reality of things.
madam president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, with less than two weeks to go until the copenhagen conference, there is growing concern about the success of the climate change negotiations. in fact, some are already saying it will fail. the world's major powers are still reluctant to show the ambition that the climate emergency demands of us. by adopting tomorrow the motion for a resolution on the strategy of the european union before the copenhagen conference, we, the members of the european parliament, must show that we are fully determined and that the conference must reach an agreement, which is certainly precise but above all binding. the binding nature of the agreement which is reached must not be called into question. the decision cannot be postponed indefinitely to tomorrow, otherwise it will be too late, and hence the need to create a world environmental organization, which is not only necessary but also urgent today, since it will be called upon, under the auspices of the un, to monitor the implementation of the commitments made in copenhagen. we must be able to expect greater clarity and responsibility from the world's great powers from copenhagen onwards.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the fight against climate change, the protection of indigenous peoples plays a vital role. when it comes to the environment, poverty, health, they are the first to suffer from climate change. beyond deforestation and mining, they suffer from the false solutions offered by industrialized countries. biofuels are not a clean alternative. they are encroaching on the territory of indigenous peoples and leading to their displacement. similarly, when we promote clean technologies, multinational corporations appropriate ancestral technologies to sell them at high prices to the very people who invented them. i regret the absence of any reference to the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples in the resolution presented today. we should also have referred to bio-piracy and indigenous peoples' right to self-determined property as fundamental tools in the fight against climate change. i shall be taking these issues up in future resolutions. forests are not just carbon, they are life. and finally, i would like to thank mrs dati for her determination and, if i have heard her correctly, ... (the president withdrew the floor)
in writing. prior judicial authorisation: this is what we wanted to obtain. with this compromise we have at least guaranteed the best possible legal protection at this stage. the eu's message is now clear: internet access is a fundamental right, and precise and binding procedures will have to be followed for an internet user to be effectively prosecuted for copyright infringement. it is now up to national judges and the judges of the european court of justice to ensure that the right of every internet user to a 'fair and impartial preliminary procedure' is respected. the lack of clarity of many provisions will require close monitoring in the transposition process and in the application of this important legislation. the european parliament, as a co-legislator, will now be able to continue to defend net neutrality, as the lisbon treaty has now been ratified. today's vote is just one step in a long process. we will have to continue to defend the "rights of internet users" and in particular better define them. we will also have to deal urgently with the crucial issue of copyright on the internet.
in writing. i abstained on this final version of the telecoms package because it is not satisfactory. it is better than nothing, though. it does not protect internet users from the abuse of liberticidal laws, such as the hadopi law, first version, in france, nor from the wrath of administrative authorities duly mandated to do so. it does, however, give them legal means to defend themselves. it is a disgrace that we have to come to this: relying on the european union, which makes a mockery of the opinion of the citizens, and whose vast majority of acts are essentially in the interests of lobbies of all kinds, to guarantee a minimum of freedom of information and expression to europeans.
in writing. as the telecoms sector is experiencing unprecedented growth, it was essential to support my colleague catherine trautmann's report, which will provide consumers with better services at fairer prices. i welcome the fact that this text will strengthen the rights of users to universal services, through clearer contracts, a more accessible emergency number, a hotline for missing children, better consideration of the rights of disabled people, and the assurance of the portability of the number. it will also help to better protect privacy and combat illegal practices on the internet by improving the security and integrity of electronic communications networks. finally, it is welcome that a legally sound solution has been reached which offers european citizens procedural safeguards such as the right to be heard, the presumption of innocence and the right to be heard, and which requires states to respect them before any measure to restrict access to the internet.
in writing. it is clear that the proposed compromise between the council and parliament does not offer sufficient legal protection for users. while the text states that end-users of the internet cannot be restricted by member states, it opens the way for consumers to be restricted by access providers without a prior decision by a court. this reality is a violation of human rights. the amendments tabled by our group to defend the rights of citizens were not accepted. finally, the package is subject to the internal market 'law'. the european court of justice will therefore decide on 'conflicts of interest'. freedom of expression would thus be subject to the law of the internal market, as all too recent examples show. thanks to strong pressure from users and citizens, protections for users have been won, however they remain insufficient for the left. we cannot accept compromises on the rights of citizens to express themselves.
in writing. i voted for the legislative resolution on the codification of the 1995 regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down general rules for the granting of community financial assistance in the field of trans-european networks. i regret that, in view of the evolution and complexity of the texts, the commission did not revise its position of 1 april 1987 to instruct its departments to proceed with the codification of legislative acts at the latest after their tenth amendment, while stressing that this was a minimum rule and that the departments should endeavour to codify the texts for which they are responsible at even shorter intervals. in this particular case, we are incorporating the 1999 regulations, two 2004 regulations and one 2005 regulation. i believe that the policy of consolidating community law should be a priority for the european commission and the current situation is not satisfactory, particularly with regard to the member states, citizens and more generally all users of the law: magistrates, lawyers, advisers, administration etc...
in writing. if we voted against the rejection of this series of reports by the committee on civil liberties, it was not because of the content of the regulatory proposals concerned, which concern europol and other activities of judicial police, but because of a question of form. the only reason why the majority of this parliament wants to refer these reports back to committee is to wait for the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it will bring these matters under the ordinary legislative process, which means equality between parliament and council at the legislative level, exclusive initiative of the brussels commission and, worse, jurisdiction of the european court of justice. we do not accept that. in the borderless world you have created, which criminals, illegal migrants and traffickers are taking full advantage of, police cooperation is essential. but it must remain essentially the domain of intergovernmental cooperation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr in 't veld, and the reports by mr kirkhope, mr albrecht and mr díaz de mera on a package of measures concerning europol, and the report by mr alfano on the european crime prevention network, calling for the rejection of the council's proposals in these areas. the aim was to defend the prerogatives of the european parliament on such sensitive issues as police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the european parliament was called upon to give its opinion in a particularly short time on very sensitive matters. there is no reason for such haste, except that after 1 december the procedures initiated under the third pillar will become obsolete and will have to be subject to a new procedure under the normal 'legislative procedure'. we reject these proposals to send a strong signal to the council of our dissatisfaction with the pressure on parliamentarians and the clear desire to circumvent the new procedures for the inclusion of the european parliament in the legislative debate.
in writing. we do not accept that european loans and grants are subject to constraints imposed by the imf. we are voting against the mfa (macro-financial assistance) presented to the european parliament today. the conditions under which this is done are: untenable deadlines, lack of information... this is in all respects a challenge to the democratic requirements which should be those of the european union. we are nevertheless in solidarity with the peoples of serbia, bosnia and herzegovina, armenia and georgia. we do not want them to be more victims than they already are of the obsolete and dangerous neoliberal system that the imf wants to perpetuate.
in writing. i must admit that i discovered something with these two reports by mrs geringer de oedenberg: i discovered that the countries which had chosen not to participate in judicial cooperation in civil matters had also lost their sovereignty. denmark, which was able to negotiate an exemption but which also wanted to conclude a treaty with the community to participate in certain aspects of this cooperation, is now obliged to obtain the commission's agreement to conclude new international agreements of the same type with third parties! this means that he has lost his right to decide independently on some of his external relations. while i can intellectually understand the need for intra- and extra-community consistency in the development of this cooperation, i find it more difficult to accept the commission's exclusive competence for this kind of international treaty, its supervision, even partial, of the capacity of a state to conclude treaties, and even more the primacy of european law over all others. we have voted for these reports only because there is no reason to prevent denmark from concluding the agreements it wants, and not much of a way to do otherwise in the present state of affairs.
in writing. − on 9 november 2009, the report on the request for defence of the immunity and privileges of tobias pflüger (a7-0054/2009) was voted and adopted in the committee on legal affairs (juri) in the european parliament. this report is based on incorrect facts. the central point is that the report cites a judgment at first instance which has been repealed. the judgment is invalid because the regional court in munich dismissed the action against tobias pflüger on 21 july 2009 in the second and final instance. a conviction was not made. for this reason, all reproaches are invalid. it is politically unacceptable that this report, which contains incorrect facts, was voted in plenary today (24 november 2009). we have tried to get this incomplete and therefore incorrect report taken off the agenda, unfortunately without success. this kind of proceeding by the european parliament creates the impression of supporting the persecution of politically active persons, in this case the munich ii public prosecution service against the former member of the european parliament, tobias pflüger.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, will europe face another gas crisis this winter? let us remember the conflict between russia and ukraine, which has affected millions of europeans. i welcome the agreement reached in yalta on 19 november. however, we know that ukraine has had a lot of trouble paying its gas bill to russia last month. we also know that the political context will be particularly difficult in january, with the presidential elections. what preventive measures can be proposed by the commission and implemented at european level to protect our citizens from the effects of a new risk of crisis and what lessons have been learned from the events of winter 2009? will the agreement reached on 16 november between the union and russia on an early warning mechanism and the draft regulation on the security of gas supplies, which i welcome, be sufficient?
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, mr daul, thank you for your question. like you, i want to avoid a repeat of last year's crisis. we have worked closely - myself, i have worked a lot - with president yushchenko, prime minister tymoshenko and the russian authorities, as well as with the international financial institutions, to support ukraine. what more can we do? in the short term, the early warning mechanism we agreed with russia last week should help us identify problems in time. but i can tell you that the atmosphere at this summit with russia, with president medvedev present, was excellent, much better than on other occasions. we are also working with the gas coordination group - a group that includes member states as well as industry - on gas storage. we continue to work with international financial institutions on the reform and modernisation of the gas sector in ukraine. but as you said, the internal situation in ukraine is not easy. in any case, i shall be in kiev next week with the president of the council, mr reinfeldt, to show once again our commitment to reforming this sector in that country.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - my dear martin schulz, thank you for your question. in any case, you will understand that i must be very cautious when commenting on the comments of the various heads of government in their sphere of domestic policy. it is not for me to enter here and now into this internal controversy. what i can say in concrete terms to answer your question is that i have always had a perfect relationship of loyal cooperation with the bulgarian government, when it was chaired by sergei stanishev. i can also say here, as i said to him personally, that he has always been a very loyal partner of the commission and of all the institutions in moving the european project forward. the fact that he is no longer in power does not mean that i will forget the loyal cooperation and european commitment he has shown.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr schulz, i believe that all democratic parties have their place in democratic countries. if bulgaria is, as we all know, a democratic country, then all the democratic parties in bulgaria have a place in the democratic system. this applies to all parties in bulgaria which, of course, respect the rules of our community.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - first of all, on the issue of the climate change portfolio, or rather climate action, i see this competence as very important. it is a transversal competence, a dimension to be integrated into all the union's policies. the commissioner for climate action will of course have the responsibility for the follow-up to copenhagen, with all that this implies in internal and external matters. as for the justice and home affairs portfolio, yes, i have decided to cut it in half too. one portfolio will be devoted to justice and fundamental rights, the other to internal affairs. it is a well-known division in many of our member states, where there is a minister for justice and a minister for the interior. of course i would like to discuss the exact delimitation with the commissioners concerned, but i can already tell you that i would like the commissioner for justice and fundamental rights to pay particular attention to removing the obstacles that european citizens encounter when they exercise their rights.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would like to continue in the same direction as mr verhofstadt, since the commission is in the process of being built up. we read and hear rumors that are quite dangerous. do you think that it is you, the president of the commission - you have been elected and confirmed - who makes the commission, who organizes the commission and who defines the space for commissioners, or are it the countries of the union and the big countries that impose or do not impose a certain position on you? i think it is unacceptable - but perhaps it is not the case - to read in the newspapers that france wants this, that england wants this, that mrs merkel wants this. mr sarkozy, mrs merkel have appointed you, they have nothing to say, you have to do your commission! is that your idea of the role of the president of the commission, or do you have another, which is more that of mrs merkel or mr sarkozy?
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - my idea is very simple: to respect the lisbon treaty, just like the current treaty. from 1 december, this treaty of lisbon states very clearly - i have here the english version, article 17 - that it is the president of the commission who has to decide on the internal organisation of the commission and that is of course what i will do, including the allocation of portfolios. let's be clear, there's always pressure, you know. we all get requests. but in the end i am the one who takes full responsibility for the composition of the commission and i think that this commission will also have quite strong support in the european parliament. i've worked hard to get a strong enough consensus. i have good news for you today - and i thank you - that the next commission will have nine women, one more than the present commission. a week ago, only three women were in the press. many of you have helped me to make the case to the member states for the appointment of more women. this is a concrete case of my commitment to form a college which can benefit from the support of your assembly.
mr president, since you are talking about the commission and women, do you not think that in the long run it would still be easier for a commission president to have two commissioners from each country, to have two proposals: one woman and one man? in this way you would be able to have a balanced commission, not with nine women, but with half women and half men.
president of the commission. − thank you, mr böge, for your question. i know how committed you are to the rules of the budget and the competence of parliament. my answer to you is yes, of course we will come at the proper time with proposals for this parliament to adopt the necessary adjustments so that this new entity, the european external action service, can have the means, the budgetary means, to implement all its actions. as i have said before, we want this to be one of the great successes of the lisbon treaty. i think it is a very important innovation and of course, based on the proposal that will be made by vice-president ashton, as high representative, we will work on this matter together with parliament.
mr president, i should like to inform you that in a few days' time the international day of solidarity with the palestinian people will be held. the situation of the palestinian people, who are oppressed, colonized, murdered and killed, must not continue. we europeans, by virtue of our values of solidarity and brotherhood, have a responsibility to find a solution to this situation quickly, before there is another bloodbath. the israeli government is continuing its settlement activities in a forced march and after committing war crimes earlier this year. symbols and tears are no longer enough. the only solution today to stop this murderous policy of the israeli government is the recognition and, above all, the existence of the palestinian state. the palestinian people, like other peoples, have the right to a dignified existence that meets their aspirations. as president of the commission, and with mrs ashton, will you take action to this end and if so, how?
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i will not repeat the main points made by my colleagues on justice and immigration, but i would like to point out that a european judicial area can only be established by strengthening mutual trust between member states, which will thus improve the principle of mutual recognition, the cornerstone of the europe of justice. considerable progress has been made over the past 15 years, but many weaknesses persist. i am glad that, during the negotiation of this text, the treaty of lisbon has finally been ratified by all the member states. the european parliament will be able to have its say in the same way as the council in matters of justice and home affairs; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. as the fictitious rapporteur for the opinion of the epp group on behalf of the committee on petitions, i would like to point out that far too many cases are brought before the committee on petitions concerning obstacles to the free movement of citizens within the european union itself. i would also like to mention the problems of mutual recognition of diplomas and entitlement to social benefits, as well as the problems of discrimination. the recognition of same-sex marriages, on the other hand, is a matter for the member states. the union must respect this national competence. i call on the european commission to publish its guidelines as soon as possible to help the authorities of the member states to combat effectively abuses of the principle of free movement. citizens must be able to move freely and enjoy their rights fully in this area without internal frontiers. i am pleased to see that the resolution includes the european union's anti-drug strategy in the construction of this european area of justice. but i would like the european union to take more initiative in this area. why does the union not take up new weapons to combat this growing phenomenon, which is affecting our children at an ever younger age? they are the future. what are we doing to protect them? let us finally be pragmatic in our institutions! that is what our fellow citizens expect of us.
mr president, many of the comments made today suggest that the stockholm programme deserves to be sought for the widest possible consensus and an ambitious programme. that is what the resolution which will be put to the vote tomorrow will attempt to do. in this i regret the rejection of the reference to the right to vote of non-eu residents and to the guarantee of access to care for sick migrants. but i do hold up the adoption of important points, such as the requirement for the adoption of the directive on non-discrimination, freedom of movement for european citizens and families - i mean all families - the demand for the removal of obstacles and the exercise of the right to family reunification, the prohibition on the detention of unaccompanied minors, to name just a few. in my view, the success of the stockholm programme can be measured by four issues: the existence of concrete achievements for citizens, the scrupulous respect for the new role of the european parliament - codecision being an added value - the quality of implementation by national parliaments and the visibility of the values of the stockholm programme among citizens, and particularly among europe's young people. the dynamics now need to be engaged in both adoption and future implementation.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to begin by thanking you for the opportunity to come here today to discuss this important issue. judging by the questions raised by some of the members, it is clear that this is a matter of some concern. i hope that today i can clarify the council's position on this matter and answer your questions. the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are fundamental principles of cooperation within the european union. they shall guide the cooperation of the member states within the union. these principles are and will continue to be the basis for cooperation in the area of asylum and migration. eu cooperation on migration has developed rapidly in recent years and covers a wide range of legal acts and other types of action. as regards the rights of asylum seekers, i would like to point out the fundamental purpose of asylum cooperation. the aim is to create a common european asylum system, which provides protection for people in accordance with the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees and other international treaties relating to people in need of protection. within the framework of cooperation, there are provisions for the provision of subsidiary protection, provisions on the asylum procedure, reception and return. the provisions cover the whole of the asylum field and form the basis of the common european asylum system. the most important legal acts in the field of asylum are the dublin regulation on criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for examining an application for international protection, the reception directive, which sets minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers, the protection grounds directive, which concerns minimum standards for determining when a third-country national is considered to be in need of international protection, and the asylum procedures directive, which sets minimum standards for the procedure for member states to grant or withdraw international protection. all these acts are currently being reviewed with a view to further approximating the legislation of the member states in this area and thus making it more complete and effective. the proposed amendments will be decided by the co-decision procedure, which will give us a broad political anchor for the development of the common european asylum system. well-managed migration involves both creating opportunities for people to enter the union legally and for returning those who do not fulfil the conditions for entry and stay on the territory or who lack grounds for asylum. as regards the fundamental rights of those who do not have the right to reside in the union, i would like to refer to the general principles of law which should be the basis of all eu action and, more specifically, to the rules governing the return of third-country nationals who do not have the right to enter or reside legally in a member state. the return policy is based on the principle of mutual recognition of the right to return. the directive is an important first step towards legislation aimed at providing fair and transparent procedures to achieve a more effective return policy at european level. the return policy should be based on the principle of legal certainty, humanity and effectiveness. the return work also includes provisions on joint return flights. the council decision on the organisation of joint flights for the return of third-country nationals who have not been granted a residence permit or asylum was adopted in 2002 under the return action programme. the organisation of joint flights is resource-efficient and contributes to improving operational cooperation between member states. i would like to stress, however, that this is not the enforcement of collective expulsion decisions, but a cooperative measure to make more effective use of the capacities of the member states. the common guidelines accompanying the council decision provide that joint flights may be organised for persons who do not or no longer fulfil the conditions for entry, stay or residence on the territory of a member state. the organising member state and the participating member states shall ensure that the legal situation of each of the returnees for whom they are responsible allows for the return. the regulation establishing a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union also allows this authority, namely frontex, to provide the member states with the necessary support to organise joint return operations. in october this year, the european council also called on frontex to examine the possibility of financing joint return flights. all these measures are designed to ensure that international protection is available to those who need it and that the return of illegally staying third-country nationals is carried out in a legally secure and lawful manner. the use of joint return flights does not constitute a breach of the principle of non-reform or a circumvention of the requirement of an individual examination. member states are expected to take into account the specific circumstances of each person subject to return, including any application for international protection. this of course also applies to people who have come from afghanistan. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the community's return policy is of course important, but it is only one aspect of an overall migration policy. the european pact on immigration and asylum, adopted by the european council last september, reaffirms the union's commitment to the global approach to migration. this means that migration issues should be an integral part of the eu's external relations and that effective management of migration must be consistent. it also requires a close partnership between the countries of origin, transit and destination. the stockholm programme, which we discussed earlier this afternoon, will of course confirm and further develop this overall strategy.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i will try to recall the main principles governing our attitude to these problems of migration and return. eu law requires member states to ensure that third-country nationals present on their territory can apply for international protection if they so wish. as regards the possibility of these nationals, in this case afghans, being granted some form of international protection, member states must examine each asylum application by applying the criteria laid down by european legislation to the particular circumstances of each applicant. member states must determine whether the asylum seeker qualifies for refugee status and, if he does not meet the criteria required to be considered a refugee, whether he is eligible for subsidiary protection. i'll call you back principle by principle. first, third country nationals should not be returned to their country if they are exposed to serious harm. eu legislation, and in particular the so-called 'qualification' directive on asylum, states that member states must respect the principle of non-refoulement in accordance with their international obligations. so member states cannot return to afghanistan people who are refugees in the sense of the geneva convention or who have been granted subsidiary protection. in addition, member states are required to ensure that no return operation is carried out in breach of article 3 of the european convention on human rights, which obliges member states to ensure that a person is not returned to his or her country if he or she is likely to suffer persecution or serious harm on return. secondly, we cannot generalize the demands as to whether it is appropriate to conduct rescue operations to afghanistan. afghanistan is one of the main countries of origin for asylum seekers in the european union. it should be added that the union is, however, hosting only a small fraction of the total number of refugees from afghanistan, most of whom are in neighbouring countries, notably iran and pakistan. general conclusions cannot be drawn as to whether the forced return of afghans to their country of origin would violate community law, the european convention on human rights or the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it is for the member states in which applications are submitted to decide on each application in the light of its particular characteristics. when examining applications, member states should examine the relevant individual circumstances in order to determine the possible protection needs of each applicant. this requires an examination of the political, security and human rights conditions prevailing in afghanistan. this also requires consideration of the particular situation in the part of the country from which the person concerned originates, as well as the particular circumstances of that person, such as his or her family environment, activities in the country of origin or any other specific characteristic which may make him or her more vulnerable. there are no general conclusions on the protection needs of afghan asylum seekers, but statistics show that the recognition rate for them has increased in recent months. in the first half of 2009, almost 50% of afghan asylum seekers received international protection in the european union, compared to less than 30% in the last quarter of 2008. i now come to another question. what are the conditions to be met before deciding to carry out a re-conduction operation? in my recent statement on the joint uk-france operation to return afghans to kabul, i said that before returning an individual to a third country such as afghanistan, member states should take three precautions. they should, first, have ensured that the migrant concerned does not wish to apply for international protection; secondly, if an application for international protection has been lodged, ensure that the application has been thoroughly and individually examined and rejected after an appropriate evaluation procedure; thirdly, to ensure that the life of the migrant returned to his country of origin is not endangered. the commission sought further clarification on the circumstances of this french and uk operation to resettle afghans. however, the commission has no evidence at present that these three conditions have not been met by the persons concerned. what about those return operations involving several returnees, provided that the case file of each of them has been assessed individually? protocol iv to the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union prohibit collective expulsions, but there is no legal obstacle, nor indeed any objection in principle, to several individual return measures being carried out jointly, each on the basis of a separate decision, for example by using the same flight. there is also no legal obstacle to such operations being organised jointly by several member states. the current mandate of frontex already provides for operational cooperation in the field of joint resettlement operations. the european council has asked that the operational capabilities of frontex be strengthened and that in particular consideration be given to the possibility of regularly chartering aircraft to carry out these operations. these joint operations should improve the efficiency of the rescue operations from a logistical point of view and perhaps also benefit from a number of very desirable accompaniments, since rescues are always painful. the commission has also noted that, while the return directive has not yet been transposed by most member states, the commission nevertheless encourages member states to ensure now that their decisions on readmission comply with the standards set out in the return directive. this includes giving priority to voluntary returns, providing for remedies against return decisions and taking into account the specific needs of vulnerable persons. this return directive is not yet applicable. it will be soon and it will still provide some additional guarantees for those concerned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, billström also explained that in all these problems we try to keep a fair balance between the willingness to welcome those who are persecuted for political reasons and who really deserve protection, and then at the same time the need to also recognize that some requests have no reason to be accepted. there is therefore a difficult balance to be struck, which the commission is careful to maintain. i can say that to parliament, listening of course to the speeches which will follow this presentation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the union must give a dignified welcome to people fleeing war and persecution and offer them international protection schemes in line with its values. however, the european union has for several years been faced with mixed migration flows and smuggling networks that abuse national asylum systems to bring in people who do not meet the conditions required to avail themselves of them. so what do you do? this question has arisen in each of our member states. the capacity of the state to absorb is not unlimited. protection schemes must be offered to people who meet objective criteria, and if we want to maintain our tradition of being host countries, it is essential to be firm against the diversion of these asylum procedures for the purpose of economic migration. it is also important to note that all countries targeted by illegal immigration channels from afghanistan or iraq implement forced return measures. they're forced to. it is enough to mention a number of member states of the european union which are putting them into practice, regardless of their political colour. there is no longer any political disagreement within the union on these issues and it is this consensus which will make it possible, in the very near future, to implement joint removal operations financed by frontex. this initiative, as a common tool for managing migration flows, should be welcomed. i would also like to point out that collective expulsion operations are entirely distinct from collective expulsions within the meaning of the case law of the european court of human rights. the strasbourg court forbids any measure compelling foreigners as groups to leave a country, but it authorizes cases where such a measure is taken after a reasonable and objective examination of the particular situation of each of the foreigners. international and european refugee law is sufficiently dense to ensure that these deportation procedures are strictly regulated and that they are carried out in compliance with the fundamental principle of the dignity of the human person.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i have listened carefully to the speakers, but i would like to raise a number of questions and concerns about the subject at hand, and i will of course refer to two recent examples. the first concerns the return of 27 afghans to kabul, as part of the group return organised by france and the united kingdom. i would like to know whether the commission and the council consider that afghanistan is a country where the physical integrity of returnees is guaranteed. the commission has just told us that it cannot guarantee that these referrals were made after verifying that the persons concerned had not applied for international protection, or that they had been made in accordance with each stage of the procedure for examining their application, if any. the second example concerns the return of roma to kosovo by germany, belgium and austria, with whom these countries have concluded readmission agreements, even though the unhcr, in its guidelines of 9 november last, considers that, i quote, 'roma, wherever they are in kosovo, are subject to severe restrictions on their freedom of movement and the exercise of their fundamental rights and are subject to threats and physical violence'. this leads me to ask for three clarifications. why is article 15 (c) of the 2004 qualification directive, which gives persons who are the subject of, i quote, 'serious and individual threats ... due to indiscriminate violence or in the event of internal or international armed conflict' the right to subsidiary protection, so weakly implemented? question number two. can the idea that it would be legitimate to send back people who are illegally present in the european union because they have not applied for international protection be considered sufficient, when we know that due to the dublin ii regulation many potential asylum seekers do not apply for asylum in the state of their first entry because their chances of success in the procedure are negligible and the reception conditions are deplorable? finally, the third question. if the member states were to confirm the council decision of 29 and 30 october to examine the possibility of chartering joint return flights financed by the frontex agency on a regular basis, do they intend at the same time to agree on a european list of safe countries and to act swiftly on a common asylum system which would allow for the upward harmonisation of the conditions for the examination, granting and exercise of refugee status?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by expressing the sadness of many europeans when, on 20 october last, two countries of the european union organised the forced return of afghan immigrants, three from france and 24 from great britain. these men, who had left a war-torn country for europe, thinking they would find refuge and protection there, were sent back to a country still at war, where their safety could not be guaranteed in any way. this is a major challenge to our understanding of human rights. and how surprised i was to see - there is obviously a link - a few days later, at the european summit, not only the organisation of joint charters, but also their financing - which is a new feature of the european budget! commissioner, this is not the europe we want. europe is not here to legitimize national practices that are contrary to fundamental rights. and it's too easy to put the blame on him. and when i hear, for example, the french minister of immigration say that "forced returns should be done under the european banner", i tell you that this is not why the founding fathers invented europe. you asked paris and london to ensure that the afghans who were expelled had the opportunity to apply for asylum, that their applications had been rejected and that their lives were not endangered in the region to which they were being sent back. i would therefore like you to confirm explicitly that there has been an individual examination of each asylum application. i would also like to know whether the commission considers afghanistan to be a safe country, and if not, whether the commission agrees that this forced return was in breach of article 3 of the geneva convention. thank you very much for the explanations you will give us.
for the greens/efa group mr president, first of all, i would like to welcome the fact that there is a debate today on this subject because it is clear that the heads of state and government had foreseen that the return of irregular migrants on european territory to afghanistan would be like a letter to the post, and this is not the case. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the questions have already been well addressed. is afghanistan a safe country? well, you'd have to ask mr. obama who just decided to send 34,000 troops there. no army can guarantee the survival of its men in afghanistan, and would we be able to guarantee that the migrants we send back to that country would not see their lives endangered? it is a joke, which is also frowned upon by the unhcr, which has strongly recommended that member states do not carry out this type of refoulement. secondly, there is ambiguity about the mass expulsions. everyone, and i am the first to congratulate myself, on the fact that the charter of fundamental rights will be binding in the future. article 19 (1): "collective expulsions are prohibited". this is the first sentence of article 19 (1): you're telling us this isn't a mass expulsion. mr billström has a charming word for it, since he tells us that it is a reasonable mobilization of resources. soon, we'll be selling shared charters as car-sharing in the name of fighting greenhouse gases. there are limits! and where are these limits? well, i can tell you, as someone who was elected in the pas-de-calais region, where there are many afghans - and which also gave rise to these returns organised by mr besson in france - that when, for reasons of communication, the french government decides to publicize, to organise a collective return operation, there are arrests, collective arrests, in the pas-de-calais region, which are illegal because they are discriminatory. so we can't guarantee what you say, mr barrot, that this is a joint operation for people who have been placed in irregular situations after individual procedures. there is a mass expulsion because of mass arrest.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we should welcome the organisation of this debate. i am, however, appalled by the language that has been offered to us. let's stop playing with words. yes, mass expulsions were organized. the european union prides itself on defending human rights. the right to asylum is one of these fundamental rights. today, however, many afghans have been expelled to a country at war, a war in which many european countries are involved. mr barrot, i am sorry, but the legislation in question is european legislation as much as it is national legislation, and we should not refer to individual national situations. a large part of the situations that have been created are due to the so-called return directive, which i prefer to call the shame directive, because it is a shame directive for all human rights defenders. you know that asylum seekers are treated very differently in all european countries and, precisely because of these differences, afghans are not in a position to apply for asylum under the right conditions. i would therefore like to join all the questions put by my colleagues and ask you to ensure that an assessment of the balance sheet of all these policies is made on a case-by-case basis, if possible.
mr president, i would like to support the joint initiative of the british socialist government and the french government to return illegal afghans to their territory. contrary to what some people have said, these people had their asylum applications rejected, and this bilateral initiative must now be extended to the european level. the pressure of migration is a challenge that we must face collectively. and that is the meaning of the pact on immigration and asylum adopted a few months ago during the french presidency. we must now go further by pooling our resources and organising joint return flights financed by frontex. the decision by the twenty-seven to ask the commission to undertake a study on this subject is a first step and, commissioner, i hope that the commission will support this proposal, because the fight against illegal immigration is an expectation of public opinion and, in particular, of the legal immigrant population.
author. - mr president, commissioner, the committee on employment and social affairs wanted to include an oral question on the issue of relocations, particularly of multinationals, in the examination of these two applications for use of the globalisation adjustment fund because, in the irish case, we have become aware of the difficulties or contradictions that could arise in the use of such a fund. at no time did any member of the committee on employment and social affairs want to hold irish workers hostage or threaten not to come to the aid of irish workers who are now in a critical situation because of dell's industrial strategy and relocation. we simply noted that in this case, when president barroso announced on 19 september the granting of eur 19 million in aid, which we are discussing this evening, to dell, or rather to the dismissed dell workers to help them with the restructuring period ahead, on the same day in new york, dell was buying perot systems, which enabled it to increase its stock exchange price. a few days later, on 23 september, commissioner neelie kroes authorised state aid of more than €54 million for the installation of a dell plant in poland. on this basis we have called both commissioner špidla and commissioner neelie kroes. in a long letter they reply that they themselves had considered the possibility of dell having two production sites to supply the european market. what i find is that once dell gave up one of these production sites, we did not change our overall assessment of dell's strategy. and what do we find? the fact is that dell does not respect any of the european legislation which we commonly refer to as workers' rights or trade union rights. so it is very difficult to see the european union budget being used, in the end, at a time when we are experiencing the difficulty of the budgetary procedure, the difficulty of financing the stimulus plan, to achieve this paradox of boosting the rate of return on investment for american shareholders and leading irish workers to face the same fate as polish workers within the european union. this is certainly not the philosophy we advocated when we advocated the implementation of the globalisation adjustment fund. this is probably not the sole responsibility of commissioner špidla, but i think that this case requires us to look very closely at the conditions under which the community budget is mobilised to support the strategies of large companies. we see this all the more so since, in the recovery plan drawn up under the responsibility of the current president of the commission, mr josé manuel barroso, one of the key measures announced in the field of employment was to give priority to maintaining the employment of workers when they were employed. since the commission was informed of dell's strategy of having two sites, when the alternative situation between those two sites arose, it seems to me that a more proactive strategy on its part should have led to a negotiation with dell for a conversion of the site in ireland, given that the company's strategy was to convert a desktop site, as it existed in ireland, into a laptop site, as it is currently installed in poland. it seems to us that if the commission is helping multinationals in such a case, we should have a more consistent right to speak. i believe that all this reflection must lead the next commission, and in particular mr mario monti, in the task entrusted to him, to draw up much more proactive proposals on how we use community money at a time when we are faced with relocations which, once again, pit workers, employees of one member state against those of another member state, all in a multinational strategy which does not respect the spirit of social law, as we wish to implement it around the concept of a social market economy.
author. - mr president, i would like to reassure my colleague, mr crowley. no member of the committee on employment and social affairs has questioned the effectiveness or usefulness of the globalisation adjustment fund. we just think there's a way to optimize it. i would also like to refer to one of the commissioner's comments when he said earlier that we should avoid shopping around with the funds. and that is precisely the problem we are facing today. when, i imagine, you are preparing your successor on this matter, what will you say to the next commissioner in charge of the globalisation adjustment fund? in the dell case, we can see that there is a risk of abuse of the procedure and of misuse of community funds and authorizations granted under competition policy.
i would like to thank mr vital moreira for his speech. on 9 december, the euro-mediterranean trade ministers will meet to discuss the relaunch of our economic and trade cooperation. first of all, i would like us to make a clear statement together. while the objective of the free trade area was to benefit all partners, north and south, setting its coming into being in 2010 was neither realistic nor even desirable, given the still-existing development differences between the northern and southern shores of the mediterranean. in addition, some have repeatedly argued that in order to advance the euro-mediterranean process - which, i would remind you, is composed of the three pillars: political, economic, social and cultural - it was necessary, in the face of political difficulties, simply to set them aside in order to make progress on the economic and commercial side. this magical and pernicious vision that trade alone can make progress towards harmonious integration, peace and stability, as you have understood, i do not believe in. i don't believe in it, especially since the facts speak for themselves. the union for the mediterranean, for example, by putting aside political conflicts, was supposed to revive stagnant euro-mediterranean cooperation by means of so-called concrete and visible projects. today, the union for the mediterranean is stagnating, and the political disputes that have been overlooked are a stark reminder of it. i am one of those who remain fiercely attached to the spirit of barcelona, of those who believe that progress is not measured solely by trade statistics, which are still too unfavourable to our partners in the south, to their populations. trade for trade, no, i definitely do not believe in that. on the other hand, trade in the service of development with the aim of reducing wealth disparities, genuinely shared prosperity or regional integration, yes, i understand that. but the negotiations must be guided in this direction. that is why, at this next meeting, i call on us to be collectively ambitious, not to be content with mere technical discussions with the removal of barriers to trade as the objective. it is no longer acceptable that this logic persists. regional integration, particularly in its south-south dimension, the responses to the economic crisis which is hitting hard with its corollary of job losses, considerations of human, social and environmental development and the question of human rights must feed the discussions and return to the heart of our concerns.
for the greens/efa group mr president, after 15 years of negotiations on the trade side of the barcelona process, we have very serious doubts whether negotiating a free trade agreement of the euromed type is the right answer to the social, political and economic problems that are present in the region. the impact study, it was said, above all revealed that there were potentially very serious negative impacts, whether they were social, environmental or in terms of regional integration. in this context, mr president, commissioner, we believe that the commission's proposal, the road map for 2010 and beyond, is too unambiguous, with its aspect of bilateral free trade agreements, to go in the right direction. we support the draft resolution under discussion today, not least because it raises all these questions of social impact, environmental impact, impact on regional integration, and above all because, in paragraph 10, it calls for a review of the objectives of trade agreements, particularly in the light of these social and environmental issues, and above all because it might perhaps be imagined that by reviewing these agreements, the trade aspect could be reintegrated into the overall barcelona process.
mr president, i had not planned to reply to mrs dodds, but i would just like to say that she should read the lisbon treaty because if there is one committee that will be strengthened by the lisbon treaty, it is the committee on international trade. this will mean that the european parliament will then have a little more weight in the months or years to come. mr moreira asked the commissioner very specific questions. i heard mr tajani reply: libya and syria. there is one question that is being left out very quickly, and that is the whole question of human rights, to which there has been no clear answer. i am very much in favour of progress in the negotiations with libya and syria, but at the same time we should have precise answers to the questions and requests of the european union on the question of human rights. secondly, it seems to me that it is impossible to talk about the euro-mediterranean area without mentioning the israeli-palestinian question, when we see today the importation of products from the occupied territories. i would therefore also like to know the commission's position on this matter.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in preparation for railway competition, european directives have imposed the separation between the railway network and transport activities, thus prohibiting any equalization. as a result, trains in france now run at a slower speed on the secondary network than at the beginning of the 20th century. without the means to maintain it, a third of the network falls apart. all the railway unions, all the experts say this situation will inevitably lead to terrible accidents. but that's not enough. you always have to be more profitable. so we are prepared to sacrifice rail safety by banning the most protective national safety standards in favour of a future european minimum regulation. once again, the general interest of europe is being sacrificed to capitalist greed. the right european model is thalys, that is to say european railway cooperation in compliance with the statutes protecting employees and the highest safety standards. this is the exact opposite of the fierce competition imposed on rail users by european directives. yes, for the safety of railway users and for the safety of people living nearby, in the face of dangerous goods, all european railway packages must be abolished.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, here we are. the heads of state or government chose herman van rompuy as the first president of the european council and catherine ashton as high representative. thank you to fredrik reinfeldt, the last prime minister to hold the rotating presidency of the european council. thank you for bringing out a consensus on the two personalities who will have the heavy burden of carrying out the new functions created by the lisbon treaty. today, in this house, i would like to welcome the first statements by president van rompuy, who, i quote, said that 'the image of the council will be built by the results' and who advocated a step-by-step approach. the epp recognises this method, which i would call the 'jean monnet' method, as a simple but effective way of acting. it is the one that has led us from yesterday's conflicts to today's exchanges. it has led us from long waits at the borders to the schengen area, from fluctuating exchange rates to a stable euro. and thanks to this step-by-step construction of europe, considerable progress has been made, no one can deny it. i would like to warn you, ladies and gentlemen, against the easy criticism we have heard in recent days. i am thinking in particular of those who, for the sake of a good word, have disqualified themselves in irresponsible statements. the epp group also has dreams, just like everyone else, but the difference between us and others is that we work to make them come true. we have done so with the construction of europe, we have done so with reunification and we have also done so with the treaty of lisbon, which, despite its imperfections, will take us a little further in the right direction. that is what the europeans are waiting for, ladies and gentlemen, and not just some short-sighted and disastrous declarations. we are convinced that president van rompuy will undertake his task with the same determination and will as he has shown in his own country, qualities which have been successful and recognised by all. president van rompuy has the full confidence of the epp, and i would like to give him our encouragement in a task which will obviously be very difficult. i am waiting for the council to change its mind. i expect it to move towards greater transparency, to work more confidently with parliament and the commission. i hope that the ministers will stop shouting national victory against their partners who have just returned from brussels and that they will stop blaming europe for all the ills. and i hope that the council will no longer vary its position according to the person who presides over it. i expect all this, together with the epp group, from the first stable presidency of the council. mrs malmström, you are not concerned, since you have already been appointed by your country as commissioner. so you don't even have a choice, you have to talk about europe. on behalf of the epp group, i also congratulate catherine ashton, the new high representative and vice-president of the european commission, 'barroso i'. we welcome his appointment and will listen carefully to his answers to our questions at the commissioner's hearing in january. it is at the end of this process that she will be fully invested in her duties as vice-president of the barroso ii commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that the time for personal questions is over and that we can finally, in all serenity, address the issues of substance. we know that two major issues will dominate the european council in december. the first is the recovery of growth, which cannot be achieved without a recovery in employment. we expect the european council to make concrete commitments in this respect. the second topic is climate. everyone knows that the council will be held in the middle of the copenhagen conference, which must not only lead to political objectives but to concrete commitments. it's the most important thing. this first european council under the lisbon treaty must enable europe to play its full role. i hope therefore that it will be able to use its influence and assert its positions with greater determination than in the past.
mr president, commissioner, on thursday the european union appointed mr van rompuy as its first permanent president of the council and catherine ashton as its head of diplomacy. i would like to return to the debate which has been raging in our institutions since the announcement of these appointments. i believe that beyond the question of names and functions there is the central question of states. let me explain. we are witnessing what could be the worst nightmare of those who have carried the ideal of community europe and their desire for union. at that time it was believed that the union's roots lay in state legitimacy and that its future lay in overcoming national selfishness. a tension between two contradictory vectors, sometimes painful, often creating original mechanisms, but above all in the service of a political method unique in the world. this nightmare, ladies and gentlemen, is that of a europe which would be reduced to the achievements of intergovernmentalism. the result, as we can see today, is suspicion of incompetence, presumption of illegitimacy, tensions in political families. the point of my speech is not, as you will have understood, to go into these cases of intent. i would rather join you in recalling the rights and duties of the european parliamentarians we are. we have to ask ourselves about the opaque bargaining that has been going on in the designation of posts under the lisbon treaty. our right in the future is to force the council to put an end to this undemocratic, archaic designation system, which fuels the idea that europe is not a place for people. our duty is to use all our new parliamentary prerogatives to influence the policies that will result from the new powers granted to us by the lisbon treaty. parliament, between a weaker commission and a stronger intergovernmental body, must become the institutional balance-sheet. in this respect, i hope that the vice-president of the commission will have the same hearing process by the european parliament as the other commissioners. we have a right to do so, as guaranteed by the treaties. i also support the proposal by mrs harms, who proposed a meeting between the new president and all the groups. our duty is to revive the european construction, which is seriously in a bad state. no one can reasonably wish the mandates given to mr van rompuy or mrs ashton to fail, and i wish mrs ashton particular success because i am proud that a woman has been appointed to this high representative post.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the swedish presidency for leaving us at the end of the year with the best of itself. this is good news for the commission and good news for our parliament. that said, i will address a few points. first, the question of appointments. i do not question the question of persons, but the question of procedures. and i really hope this is the last time it happens this way. the europeans expected transparency, democracy and clarity in the debate, but in reality they had opacity and last-minute negotiations behind closed doors in a european council. this must not happen again, and i think it will be up to our parliament to propose new procedures and new rules for the future. on climate change, i hope that the union will speak with one voice and act with one after copenhagen, whatever the outcome of the conference. let's move! let us set ourselves the target of an effective 30% reduction in greenhouse gases! and when i say 'effective', i mean that we will have to ask ourselves, eventually, one day, the question of derogations and of the right to pollute. let us go ahead and make a firm financial commitment to the developing countries. we owe it to them. finally, on the economic and social situation, we must work towards the emergence of a new economic model, which gives priority to employment, social progress and the long term, that is to say, sustainability in all its forms. we therefore need supervision and regulation, a policy more favourable to small and mediumsized enterprises and a common approach to taxation that favours the long term over the short term.
mr president, commissioner, we should be happy today, because we are out of an institutional difficulty. we have the lisbon treaty, we have parity, we have faces, and yet how can i express the unease i feel? today, in this almost empty house, i feel breathless, we are witnessing a disappointing debate in preparation for this european council. i do not understand why there is this unease about the preparations for this last european council with a rotating presidency. what a contrast to the joy of the people in 2004 when the former communist countries joined the union! what a contrast with the celebrations of the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall! yes, we know today that the solution will not come from the member states. the solution will come from the people, it will come from the european parliament. and i turn to the commission, which will not have to choose sides, but will have to find a political alliance with the european parliament, so that the alliance of the peoples will ensure that we can achieve the dream of the european union we want, the union of the peoples.
mr president, madam president-in-office, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is growing again in the third quarter of 2009, which could lead us to believe that the worst is behind us. the worrying reality of the explosion in unemployment remains, and extreme caution is therefore required. the commission, in a report dated 23 november, said that the financial crisis had destroyed more than 4 million jobs between the second quarter of 2008 and mid-2009. it is now more than necessary that the next european council should discuss the question of employment in the context of the post-2010 lisbon strategy. it will be essential to incorporate bold objectives and innovative measures. i think the debate must now be about how to adapt the lisbon strategy to this troubled period. our citizens expect europe - and we see it on the ground every day - to provide solutions to the employment crisis. let's not let them down. but my observation and my disappointment are in line with those of my colleague jean-pierre audy in the face of an almost empty chamber, in the face of a reality which is extremely worrying for our fellow europeans.
mr president, my machine is not working, but that is not what i meant in the main. that report, mr president, contained an amendment which has been withdrawn, amendment no 86. my motion for a resolution is based on rule 24 (2) of our rules of procedure. as i have had the honour to say on behalf of a number of my colleagues, this article provides that non-attached members shall delegate one of their own to the conference of presidents. as a result of the obstruction of the administration, this obligation has not been fulfilled since july. however, amendment no 86 proposed to change this provision to make it up to you to decide who among the representatives of non-attached persons should sit in the conference of presidents. this is a real disgrace, mr president, and i weigh my words carefully. this is the experience of all our colleagues. we are the only ones who would be forced to delegate our representative to the conference of presidents. i hope, mr president, that you will be willing to refuse this option offered to you by the socialist group and the epp group to which you belong.
mr president, i would like to return to the real mistake that almost took place, under the very pretext of amending the rules of procedure to adapt them to the conditions of the lisbon treaty, namely amendment no 86, which gave the administration the right to appoint the representative of non-attached members to the conference of presidents. it is absolutely scandalous that this appointment, which should have taken place, as in all instances of our assembly, either by election or by consensus, by election in the absence of consensus, has not yet taken place because of a deliberate manoeuvre by officials who oppose it. it is appalling that these officials have won over political groups that are hostile to us and which, of course, have no say in the appointment of our representative. we will appeal this decision to the court of justice if it is discussed again.
mr president, the report which has just been adopted by this house is absolutely in line with the 'political correctness' which prevails here, without any challenge to established dogmas. yet, a statement repeated a thousand times is not justified. there's always been global warming. there's been warming since the last ice age, for example, and it's still not the cars that neanderthals used that caused the last warming. there is no dispute, there is no question about what we have heard a hundred times, a thousand times, and for what purpose? clearly, there is at least one of great interest: to prepare for the coming of world government; and the second is to blame once again the european man and the western man who is wrongly held responsible for all the sins of the world. i shall stop there, mr president, since i am not entitled to sixty-one seconds. thank you for listening to me.
mr president, i asked to speak about stockholm. mr president, as has been said, there are two concerns with this report. the first is its very strongly immigrationist view. the second is not revealed by the content of the report or the conclusions. we have only been informed of the intentions of commissioner barrot: the criminalisation of freedom of expression, research and thought. there are, at the moment, in many european countries, people who are being prosecuted, who are being arrested, who are being heavily convicted, who are being detained, simply because they want to exercise a critical point of view, either on the history of the second world war, for example, or on contemporary history, or on the phenomenon of immigration. they are denied this right and are subject to very heavy penalties. this is a great cause for concern because it is completely contrary to the european genius.
in writing. i voted for the financial discharge in council for the 2007 budget , stressing my disagreement with the way the committee on budgetary control handled this situation in which the rapporteur søren bo søndergaard delivered two contradictory reports; the change of position between the proposals for deferred discharge in april 2009 and for granting was based on statements made in meetings without any audit work and the european court of auditors made no comments on the management of the board. i regret that there has been no legal study to determine the powers of the european parliament and therefore those of the committee on budgetary control, particularly on the council's external and military activities. as we negotiate political relations with the council in the context of the application of the lisbon treaty, it is important to base the work of the institutions on rules of law.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium and ireland, as i believe that we must do everything we can to help workers who have suffered the damage caused by globalisation and the economic and financial crisis. i wonder, however, about the coherence of european policies when, alongside the mobilisation of this fund, the european commission authorises state aid from poland to the same company dell to open a factory in its country, while it closes one in ireland. how can european citizens trust the "goodness" of europe when it allows this kind of "trick"? we can doubt the legitimate use of public funds in this context and deplore the lack of social responsibility on the part of our companies, which are guided by the exclusive concern for profitability, to the detriment of the jobs destroyed.
in writing. a dell group, yesterday number one, today number three in the world of computer technology, with a market value estimated at 18 billion dollars, announcing a profit of 337 million dollars for the third quarter of 2009, forecasting a wider profit for the fourth quarter... yes, i am in solidarity with dell employees! yes, i hope they will find a job and a decent life as soon as possible! but no, i will not participate in the plundering of the european taxpayer. i will not be a party to any further contempt for employees in distress. the guilty parties must pay, and europe must implement a strong industrial policy to meet the needs of the people before allowing dividends to be distributed!
in writing. we are thinking of the irish and belgian workers who are victims of neoliberal globalisation when we vote for this report and for the granting of aid under the european globalisation adjustment fund. however, we strongly denounce the logic which wants to see the social and human tragedies experienced by european workers as mere 'adjustments' necessary for the smooth running of neoliberal globalisation. it is totally unacceptable that the eu should support those who bear the responsibility for these tragedies by giving its political and financial backing to the processes of relocation and relocation that they are implementing for the sake of profit. the market appetites of predatory capitalists like the texan company dell, the world's number two telecommunications company, cannot be separated from the general interest of european citizens. this is not our vision of europe.
in writing. i supported the david martin report on the reform of the european parliament's rules of procedure, since it will allow our assembly to take part in the new rules of the game accompanying the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the commission will be able to take part in the discussions on the future of the european union, and will be able to make proposals for the future of the union. the introduction of rules on the new role of national parliaments in the legislative procedure, by means of an examination of the respect of the principle of subsidiarity, a reform which i welcome as it contributes to the deepening of democratic debate; the european parliament has been given a greater role in the drafting of european laws. finally, the text specifies the procedures for action by the european parliament in the event of a 'violation of fundamental principles by a member state', which is particularly positive in its defence of fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the copenhagen summit resolution because it is our responsibility as elected representatives to preserve the planet for future generations. the world is playing with its future in the coming months. it is unthinkable that the international community cannot reach an agreement which commits the states to the path of reason. ladies and gentlemen, heads of state, you hold in your hands the responsibility for the earth of tomorrow. put your national interests and short-term concerns aside because humanity is in an emergency.
in writing. the joint resolution just adopted by parliament sends a clear signal. the union must speak with one voice and act with one voice in the aftermath of copenhagen, whatever the outcome of the conference. we must set ourselves the target of an effective 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. and when i say effective, it means that we will eventually have to ask ourselves the question of derogations and of the right to pollute. parliament hopes that the copenhagen conference will be an opportunity to show a strong european union which also makes a firm financial commitment to the developing countries, because we owe them that.
in writing. on the climate issue, action is urgent and should not leave the developing countries powerless, who are affected in the first place but do not have the appropriate means to act on phenomena that developed countries have caused! future generations will be powerless to deal with the effects of climate change if global action is not taken now. that is why it is essential that our governments show political leadership in getting other states, such as the united states and china, to reach an agreement. this commitment must also include the introduction of a financial transaction taxation which is not used to finance the supervision of the banking sector but that of developing countries and global public goods such as the climate.
in writing. i supported this resolution because it allows for a better balance between respect for individual freedoms and a primarily repressive approach accompanied by security measures whose effectiveness is difficult to measure today. through this programme we reaffirm our commitment to a europe of solidarity and values which must defend freedom of religion, equal opportunities, women's rights, the rights of minorities, the rights of homosexuals. that is why i strongly support the adoption of the anti-discrimination directive, which is currently blocked in the council and which the epp did not want in the previous parliament and reiterated its rejection of this text. i also welcome the adoption of amendments calling for the removal of obstacles to the exercise of the right to family reunification and for a ban on the detention of foreign minors and unaccompanied minors. i regret, however, that the orientations of migration policies are again being avoided, behind the question of the fight against illegal immigration and the strengthening of the frontex agency. as regards asylum, proposals for a common asylum system will be examined with a european parliament as a co-legislator, which will be very vigilant about the real political will to move forward in this area.
in writing. i regret that the two shores of the mediterranean continue to display striking economic, social and demographic asymmetries. that is why i have spoken in favour of a new impetus for the integration of the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean into international trade, in order to allow for their economic diversification and a fair sharing of the benefits that result. we must reduce the gap between the northern and southern shores of the mediterranean in terms of development. the free trade area should also be complemented by the gradual and conditional establishment of the free movement of workers, taking into account current thinking on the links between migration and development.
in writing. since 2000, 77 airlines have filed for bankruptcy in the european union. while there are provisions in european legislation on price transparency and compensation in the event of denied boarding, the eu must fill in the gaps in insolvency cases, especially where tickets have been purchased on the internet. too many passengers are thus left stranded in situations they cannot help, after spending all their savings on family holidays. i am in favour of rules that ensure that passengers are not stranded at their destinations with no alternative to return or accommodation.
in writing. we vote in favour of this resolution in order to preserve as far as possible the interests of airline users in the present state of affairs (liberalisation of transport services, increase in the number of airlines). we would point out, however, that the system of benefits proposed in this report is merely a cataplasm which does not change the fundamental problem. the real solution lies in the creation of a european public air transport service. a public service concerned with the general interest and therefore with the rationalization of the journeys made, in order to reduce the ecological footprint. a public service concerned with the general interest and therefore with the safety, freedom of movement and well-being of its users and employees. it is urgent to get out of the europe of special interests and to build the europe of the general interest.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on compensation for passengers in the event of airline bankruptcy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. it is clear that in recent years consumer behaviour has changed considerably when it comes to booking travel: more use of european low-cost airlines, a sharp decline in purchases of package holidays, and an increase in direct and individual online purchases and flights. add to this the current crisis in the sector, and it is easy to imagine the number of european passengers who find themselves stranded at their holiday destination, sometimes with no accommodation and desperately waiting for a return flight, following the bankruptcy of the airline they have contacted. in addition, they will have difficulty in obtaining any compensation for the damage suffered. in view of this worrying situation, the commission must urgently take a legislative initiative! a compensation fund fund funded by the air operators should be set up in parallel to finance these compensations.
in writing. in the context of the economic crisis affecting our european businesses, the european union needs more than ever to have a mandatory system of country of origin marking, even for a limited number of imported products, namely textiles, jewellery, clothing and footwear, leather goods and handbags, lamps and luminaires, glassware, because this is valuable information for the final consumer. it would also enable european consumers to know exactly which country of origin the products they buy come from. they will be able to identify these products with the social, environmental and safety standards generally associated with this country, as much transparency as our citizens, as responsible consumers, demand.
in writing. the notion of 'made in' must not be just a matter of branding, it must quickly become a strong concept of respect for the most advanced rules in terms of know-how, workers' rights, sustainable development and environmental protection, and a responsible economic attitude. with the introduction of a 'made in europe' concept, we could enable the consumer to make an informed choice, to act to win new rights. but once again, we are left with declarations of good intentions, as if saying that we are the most beautiful, the strongest, is enough to establish a truth. that's a shame, and that's why i'm gonna abstain.
mr president, i agree, and so does my group, that the enlargement policy of the european union is one of its most successful and convincing policies. that is why, mr olli rehn, i am a little worried about your future, because i am not sure which portfolio you will find more attractive than enlargement in the future commission. it is absolutely breathtaking to see, in a country like turkey, what the prospect of accession is capable of generating as a transformative, democratizing energy. yes, of course, there is still a great deal to be done: the independence of the judiciary, the place of the army, freedom of expression, the kurdish question being dealt with in all its dimensions and in a definitive way, of course. but i think it is important to stress that this strategy for enlarging the european union is not only an address to the countries in the process of accession, it is also an address to ourselves and to our european leaders. it is irresponsible to defuse the change pump in a country like turkey by leaving doubt about the outcome of the negotiation process. yes, the outcome of the negotiation process is the accession of turkey, and this must be said clearly.
madam president, commissioner, minister, you have rightly pointed out that the adoption of the treaty of lisbon will enable us to open a new era in enlargement policy, and we must approach this new dynamic with realism and lucidity. new dynamics, on the other hand, does not mean a leap forward. this would be the surest way of creating misunderstanding and even suspicion among our public opinion, and it would also be the best way of creating false illusions among the applicant countries and of inducing them to take refuge in policies of rhetoric and cosmetics rather than in policies of deepening reforms. we must be careful about the steps, the conditions and the values on which we cannot compromise, and i am thinking in particular of cooperation with the international criminal court. on the other hand, it must be reiterated without any ambiguity that the place of the western balkans, of all the countries of the western balkans, including kosovo, is in the european union, and that we must encourage them to continue and deepen their efforts. there is no contradiction between the recall of the requirements on the one hand and full support for the enlargement process in the western balkans on the other hand, just as there is no contradiction between the pursuit of this philosophy of 'everyone on his own merits' and important initiatives that must be taken for all the countries in the region, such as visa liberalisation. finally, let me say a word about turkey. before speculating on any very hypothetical future for turkey's accession process, i simply note that the commission has noted, for the second year in a row, that there was no progress on the ankara protocol and that this did not allow for the opening of new negotiating chapters.
in writing. our resolution on future enlargements must reflect the state of opinion in europe. we must avoid repeating the mistakes of the past and build europe with its peoples. the decisions to be taken are burdensome and must be well prepared and well explained so that they can be shared by the majority of european citizens. our assembly, which represents them, must be particularly vigilant in this respect. the european union is barely out of the crisis with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. today we must test the new institutional mechanism resulting from the lisbon treaty, make europe a political entity and consolidate the policies our citizens want in the fields of employment, economic recovery, the fight against climate change, energy security and common defence. let us not reverse priorities and strengthen the coherence and effectiveness of community policies before setting ourselves the objective of further enlargements of the european union. finally, i remain opposed to turkey's accession to the european union and i maintain my wish for a privileged partnership with that country within the union for the mediterranean.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every day in europe, one woman in five is the victim of violence. violence against women is unacceptable in all its forms. yet in europe many women and girls continue to live in the shadow of aggression or exploitation. the numbers are alarming. violence against women takes many forms and occurs everywhere: domestic violence, sexual abuse, sexual harassment at work, rape, including within the couple, and also as a tactic of war outside europe. in europe, domestic violence is the leading cause of death and disability for women aged 16 to 44. at the very moment when we are discussing these extremely serious issues, women are being raped. it's not enough to talk about it. we must act now. the european union has a duty to protect the most vulnerable citizens. the fight against violence against women is a fight for basic human rights and the daphne programme, which supports actions to combat all types of violence, is insufficient. new measures of initiative must be considered for the development of coherent european plans. i support the initiative to organise a european year against violence against women, which our institution has been calling for for over ten years now.
mr president, the 2000s in europe have been characterized by a proliferation of security laws: surveillance, repression, detention, imprisonment. the budgets for these policies have exploded. yet violence against women is not diminishing. in france, for example, 156 women were beaten to death by their husbands in 2008, and nearly 1 in 10 women was a victim of domestic violence. the security measures implemented for video surveillance, data logging and biometrics do not meet the real security needs of women. this violence affects all women in all countries, regardless of their origin, social background or religion. it is linked to discrimination based on sexual orientation. sexism, like racism, is about denying the other an alter ego status. how to combat sexism what is needed is a strong political will to inform, prevent, protect, the political will to abolish all the discriminations in which violence is rooted. is the security of more than half of the european citizens not worth a substantial political investment?
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to give my full support to this resolution, because it underlines the relevance and success of the atalante system. i can see the enormity of the task, given the size of the territory to be covered. however, i would like european fishing vessels operating in the zone to be considered as very vulnerable vessels and to be given appropriate protection. they should therefore be classified in category 3. tuna vessels are particularly vulnerable, because they have a very low freeboard and are immobilized and unable to manoeuvre during the fishing season with the net, which lasts four to five hours. so during these times, they are at the mercy of a pirate attack. this particularity justifies this specific request. i would also point out that this classification in the atalante system would complement the french and spanish protection systems on board the ships.
madam president, commissioner, it is obvious that we must insist on the application of the conventions of the international labour organisation, but i am afraid that the system which governs us, that is to say, that of free competition, will make labour itself a market and therefore a commodity. this creates threats everywhere against labour codes, threats against the reductions in working time that were being considered, downward pressure on labour costs, which is very damaging. we have an example in france where a ball bearing company is now being closed down to be relocated to bulgaria and the workers in that company are being asked to go and train the bulgarian employees. so you can see that this downward pressure on labour costs leads to relocations, downward pressure and a decline in social rights everywhere. we should therefore invent a system of upward harmonization of social rights and levels of social protection, so that there is no longer this fierce competition between employees, organized by the companies and our institutions themselves. similarly, we should not continue to move towards what is called, in this house and in the commission, 'flexicurity', but should instead move towards a system of occupational social security of work and employment, combined with necessary periods of training. that's what would get us out of the crisis, train the workers to help them move into the jobs that need to be invented for tomorrow.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against hunger requires a major political and financial investment, which fao was unable to generate in rome last week, and i regret that. more than a billion people suffer from malnutrition, and 40 million children, women, and men die of hunger each year. these dramatic numbers have increased since 1996, when the first world food summit was held. the global financial and economic crisis has made the situation worse, and the people of the global south are the first to suffer. 10% of the world advertising budget would provide the support needed to ensure that developing countries have the agricultural infrastructure they need. the food crisis is one of the main threats to peace and stability in the world. by 2050, farmers will have to feed more than 9 billion people. soil degradation, the loss of biodiversity, dependence on oil, greenhouse gas emissions, the depletion of groundwater and changing consumer patterns are putting us in a fragile situation, more fragile than 40 years ago. poverty and dependence on imports are the main causes of food insecurity. the need to support local production is imperative. from the late 1950s, europe set up the common agricultural policy to produce the food it needed. to achieve this, it has protected its internal market and supported its consumers. this autonomy of choice, this right to food sovereignty must now be available to all countries or groups of countries around the world who wish to do so.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, if the european union wants to play a positive role in the world, if it wants to bring about a new humanism, it should really hear the deafening cry of hunger that is sweeping the planet. we hear good things here and elsewhere. but, frankly, can we here have a clear conscience when a child dies of hunger every five seconds? and if that is so, it is not because there are technical problems. it's the result of this wave of ultra-liberalism that's sweeping the world today. until then, we worked the land to feed the people. today, the capitalist system has turned land and food into commodities, objects of global speculation. that is why we must make a radical change in policy, support fao and give it the means to act. we need documents, as you said, commissioner, and we are asking for documents. but for action to be taken, the european union could enforce the principle of food sovereignty for each people, help to set up systems of payment for peasant labour at guaranteed prices for each country and each continent, respect and enforce official development aid commitments for the countries of the south, cancel the debts of poor countries, stop the purchase of land by multinationals and hedge funds, and recognise that agriculture and food cannot be part of the world trade organisation's big bargains. we must hear the cry of hunger and act accordingly. it would make europe bigger, and it is urgent!
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we have just said, a child dies every five seconds in the world from hunger and poverty, and it is estimated that over one billion people suffer from malnutrition. the issue of global food security is therefore of the utmost urgency and must be at the forefront of the european and international political agenda. the european union's policy coherence needs to be strengthened to ensure the achievement of the first millennium development goal. the eur 1 billion food facility is a necessary first step, and it is essential that the implementation measures focus on small and medium-sized family and food farms, especially those run by women, and on poor people, who are therefore the most affected by the food crisis. sustainable agriculture must be a priority area. innovative financing mechanisms, such as an international financial transaction tax, should be explored to support climate change adaptation, while being accessible to smallholders in the most vulnerable countries.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for your speech, which i think reflects the remarkable work you have done during your term of office. europe has chosen a food model to protect its population. our citizens are prepared to pay 100 euros per year per head if we guarantee the quality of their food. we heard the oav report the other day in committee. i must say that as a new member of this house i was very uncomfortable to see the embarrassment of your staff who obviously could not answer, did not want to answer our questions. we are not ashamed, madam commissioner, of having strict rules to protect our consumers. should we be ashamed to impose these rules on those who want to feed our consumers? are we ashamed when, in order to sell planes or cars, these same countries force us to set up this or that factory or impose this or that condition on us? our market access conditions are important conditions because they affect food, they affect the health of our inhabitants. we have nothing to be ashamed of.
mr president, mr president of the court of auditors and mr president caldeira, mr vice-president and mr siim kallas, thank you, mr president caldeira, for this excellent report, thank you, mr kallas, for all the work you have done, and congratulations on your new appointment to our european commission. we look forward to it. the court issues an unreservedly positive statement of assurance on the annual accounts, as for the previous year. i congratulate the accounting officer, mr taverne, and his predecessor, brian gray, and i reiterate my misunderstanding of the negative equity of eur 47 billion, which is due, in essence, to the fact that we do not count the claims we have on the member states for their staff pension commitments, the total amount of which - i remind you - is eur 38 billion at 31 december 2008, an increase of eur 4 billion per year. on the underlying transactions, could you, mr president caldeira, tell parliament whether the court issues a positive or negative declaration of assurance? the court's opinion is divided into five paragraphs, which detail opinions by policy group, and i find it difficult to distinguish it from the statement of assurance, provided for in article 248 of the treaty, which also states that the court may make specific assessments for each major area of community activity. the results are positive both in terms of the substance and in terms of the cohesion. the error rate for cohesion is too high. i would also like to ask you whether the number of surveys - 49 for the social fund, for example, which represents thousands of operations - seems to you sufficient to form your opinion. but the main problem remains in the area of shared management with the member states and the fact that too many errors are due to the complexity of the way our european financing works. i would like to conclude on shared management and the audit chain, to reiterate my proposal to achieve a better link between the national accounts, because we will never have the national statements of governments, as the council has decided. article 287 (3) of the lisbon treaty gives you this power, mr president caldeira, to enter the national accounts. it is a proposal i repeat to you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the court of auditors' report for 2008 concludes that there has been an overall improvement in the legality and regularity of the european union's budgetary operations. however, he stressed that expenditure related to cohesion policy remained problematic, as it was the most affected by errors. the funds available for cohesion policy represent almost one third of the european budget. this is one of the most fundamental and also the most symbolic european policies of the european construction and the principle of solidarity which is at its heart. as such, we must be demanding and ensure that procedures are properly followed. however, it is important to take account of the specificities of cohesion policy, which is largely decentralised and therefore managed by the regional authorities of the member states. the errors found by the court of auditors do not stem from fraudulent attempts on the part of project promoters but from the complexity of the eligibility conditions. in my view, the solution is not to make procedures more cumbersome, but to simplify them, both at community and member state level. at community level, simplification measures are being discussed in the council and parliament. at national level, i am working on simplifying french procedures, in close collaboration with elected representatives and national and local officials. in this period of economic slowdown, it would be particularly unfortunate if the project promoters, who remain numerous, had difficulty in accessing the available european funding.
madam president, this is not a catch the eye, it is simply to regret that the council seat is desperately empty. the council is a budgetary authority and we also observe that we have many problems in the member states. that is a regret i wanted to express, madam president.
in writing. i congratulate the court of auditors on its annual report on the implementation of the eu budget for the financial year 2008. i would like to draw attention to the paragraph on the european union agencies, in which the court of auditors states that it has given an unreserved opinion on all the agencies audited, with the exception of the european police college. it is appropriate at this point to recall the similar situation we faced for the 2007 discharge. the court of auditors published a report containing a declaration of assurance with reservations on the underlying accounts and operations of cepol, indicating in particular that appropriations had been used to finance private expenditure. the rapporteur asked for the postponement of the discharge for cepol, which was followed by the committee on budgetary control. however, the plenary vote on 23 april 2009 rejected this proposal by 226 votes to 230 with a massive mobilisation of the pse and the greens/efa. while the court of auditors is still raising problems with cepol, it is essential to acknowledge the obvious error of granting discharge last april, voting against the opinion of the rapporteur and the committee responsible.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as many of us have said, google is a virtual global monopoly that is trying to appropriate the cultural, literary and journalistic heritage of the entire planet. europe must not place itself under its tutelage. its free-for-all strategy, by the way, is just a facade since google makes mind-blowing merchandise for over $23 billion in ad revenue every year. europe must, as you said, mr kallas, embark on a digitisation programme. however, the lawsuits brought by authors in the united states against the theft of their works by google books should not be used to set up a model of digitization here, which would also amount to making literary, journalistic or scientific creation a commodity. in this connection, we would like to know what exactly the commission means by the often used term 'collective licence'. the idea of creating a european copyright market is very worrying to us in this respect. the works of the spirit, which are a common heritage, should not be confused with the spirit of business, which consists in transforming culture into a commodity. we believe that the european union, together with the states, must therefore guarantee the copyright and intellectual property rights of writers, journalists and scientists. the public digitisation systems launched in a number of states must be supported and combined with this european project europeana, on the basis of the rejection of private appropriation of public cultural property. before taking any decision, i think it would be desirable for our assembly to take the initiative of a european strategic conference bringing together the european institutions, the states, the authors' unions, libraries and even public telecommunications operators, in order to develop a european public digitisation model which respects authors and works and allows access to them for the greatest number. this project, supported by europeana, should work in conjunction with other existing systems around the world.
madam president, the digitisation of europe's written heritage for the purposes of conservation, memory, but also dissemination and promotion, and the access of europeans to their great culture, are major issues in which the public authorities should be more involved. now, google is in the crosshairs, because its business strategy is to try to give itself a decisive and lasting advantage, not by monopolizing the content of a global virtual library, but by monopolizing access to that content, and in exchange, bearing the cost of digitization. i am totally opposed, as are my colleagues on the european right, to any exclusivity leading to a monopoly. the other major problems in terms of intellectual property, copyright for out-of-print and orphaned works are not insurmountable. they may lead to adaptation of legislation. but the real question is: what are the alternatives in europe? the europeana site, which has been operational for a few months, contains only 5% of the works digitised in europe. half of its contents come from french funds, a country that for once is leading the way with gallica, the portal of the national library of france, and with the ina. but the funding is paltry compared to the needs. google is willing to invest 15 million euros a year to quickly digitize up to 20 million books in ten years and make them accessible. how much are we willing to put on the table? without an answer to this question, google will be - i fear - the only operator capable of meeting the needs of the libraries themselves.
mr president, i am a little emotional about this explanation of vote, since my own mother was born in the tobacco factory in strasbourg where my grandfather worked, a factory which has just closed. when the french industrial tobacco and matches service, which was a public service, was transformed into a public limited company, the employees were told that there would be no employment consequences. today, it is understandable that other branches of public service are facing similar problems. in reality, the fight against smoking, which is harmful to health, can be understood and justified, but unfortunately french tobacco production has disappeared. the tobacco factory in strasbourg has closed and smoking continues. he continues with tobacco that is imported from abroad. that is why i, for my part, support the prices set for european tobacco growers, at least as long as tobacco is consumed in europe. i'd rather it be made here than imported from somewhere else.
in writing. i supported the report on the european year of volunteering in 2011, which aims to promote dialogue and the exchange of good practices on volunteering between authorities and stakeholders in our member states. in recent years, with the rise of individualisms, the search for new ways of individual expression, and demographic changes, civic participation has undergone major changes. volunteering therefore needs to adapt to allow more people to get involved in volunteering in different ways and at different times in their lives: exploiting the potential of older people, defining new forms of engagement with more flexibility in terms of duration and participation modalities. europe has a long tradition of volunteering and must help unlock its potential: as a vehicle for learning for its members (it is clear that participation in voluntary activities equips citizens with new skills, contributes to their personal development and strengthens their sense of belonging to society), volunteering also embodies european values such as solidarity, civic participation and non-discrimination, in sectors as varied as education, culture, the environment, social assistance and health.
in writing. on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the international day for the elimination of violence against women, it is clear that the preventive measures implemented to this end have not had the desired results. why is this happening? if we are to judge by the debates in this house, it has a name: inequality between men and women. if this inequality were the main cause, the northern european countries, whose culture and morals are known to be very progressive, should have the best results. but it is not, it is the opposite. according to the norwegian daily aftenposten, 6 percent of swedish girls between the ages of 15 and 25 were raped in the past year. we must have the courage to say that the increase in violence against women is coinciding with the arrival of a mass immigration from outside europe whose culture and traditions are absolutely contrary to ours. burqa, forced marriage, polygamy, circumcision, honor killings and other old-fashioned behaviour is not acceptable. it is therefore absolutely absurd to continue to encourage this immigration and to want to fight against violence against women.
in writing. i welcome the vote in the european parliament on the resolution on the elimination of violence against women on this international day for the elimination of violence against women. the un's proclamation of this day in 1999 and the adoption of this resolution today are valuable tools to remind national governments of their obligations under international treaties to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women. i therefore support this resolution urging member states to strengthen their national legislation and policies to combat all forms of violence against women. in particular, it is essential to ensure that all victims of violence, and in particular of trafficking in human beings, regardless of their nationality, are provided with assistance and support at eu level, and that women victims of domestic violence, whose legal status may depend on their partner, are protected.
mr president, i wonder what the consequences of a 40% reduction in world tuna fishing quotas will be. on 15 november in recife, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icct) decided that each contracting party would have to reduce its fishing capacity by at least 40%. this means that the world quota for bluefin tuna will increase from 22 000 tonnes at present to 13 500 tonnes in 2010. the ices countries have agreed to tackle the overcapacity of their fishing fleets and to halve their capacity by 2011. in addition, the fishing season for tuna seiners will be reduced to one month, with no possibility of extension. these measures, which are necessary to preserve the species and are to be transposed into community law, are endangering the activities of european fishermen. i would like to know what action is planned to maintain the employment of fishermen and to stop the plans to withdraw from the fleet. what measures have been taken to reduce the very significant socio-economic consequences of the transposition of the iccat decisions into community law?
mr president, i would like to return to a recent event, the swiss vote on the minarets. the vote took place in a country which is not a member of the european union, but it is obvious that it touches on a matter which is not foreign to us. i would like to return to this event because i see it as an excuse to talk about secularism, and we never talk about secularism too much in this chamber. it is necessary and urgent that the principle of secularism should dominate the organization of our society, and i should like to say something simple here. first of all, the opposite of secularism is not religiosity, let alone spirituality. the opposite principle to secularism is religious communalism, which establishes rules and laws that are superior to civil laws, communalism, which confines individuals to intra-societal groups. our union is historically multicultural and multiethnic. it is and will be more and more, and only secularism can allow emancipated individuals from their community to live and flourish.
mr president, the following is an extract from the letter written by william bourdon, lawyer for taoufik ben brik, to mr sarkozy, president of the french republic: 'i have had the opportunity, together with all his tunisian lawyers, to denounce the judicial farce in which taoufik ben brik was sentenced, without any examination of the substance, to a staggering six months' imprisonment. i can confirm in a very formal way that the case file on which this accusation is based was completely fabricated and is part of the logic of personal revenge on the part of president ben ali. he has not been able to travel all year because his immune system is so weak that he is still at risk of developing serious diseases. i understand that his family would be able to get him the medicine he needs but not sure. his tunisian lawyers have only intermittent access to their client and some of them are systematically denied any opportunity to visit him. his wife was only able to meet him for a few minutes a few days ago, and has not been able to see him since". mr president, please write to the tunisian authorities to ask for the release of taoufik ben brik.
mr president, i shall continue with mrs flautre's speech and i too will ask you to write to the tunisian authorities. this year we are going to award the sakharov prize, a symbol of the european parliament's commitment to human rights. we have a partnership agreement with tunisia which contains many provisions on democracy and human rights. the presidential elections in tunisia have just taken place in deplorable conditions, unworthy of the provisions contained in the agreement with the european parliament. we cannot remain silent. human rights defenders are mocked in tunisia, arrested, humiliated. this can't go on. that is why, mr president, i urge you to write to president ben ali and ask, in particular, for the release of taoufik ben brik, a committed journalist whose only crime was to criticize the so-called tunisian democracy.
mr president, the cesar programme, which aims to modernise air traffic management in europe, is a major project. how will the commission prepare for the next phase of the redeployment of cesar, and in particular for the financing of this programme which is essential for the environment and for our scientific and technical outreach? will the commission follow the recommendations of the 2007 report that a qualified high-level person should be in charge of the political follow-up of this programme? it will require overcoming many obstacles - legal, psychological, technical - by unifying national airspaces and bringing together controllers from different countries. if europe is not able to unify its skies, how can it build a strong political whole?
for the gue/ngl group madam president, madam commissioner, you have come to tell us that the agricultural crisis is deep, which we already knew. the small and medium-sized farmers can no longer afford it. but, madam president, this is not the result of a technical problem, it is the result of your policy of deregulation, which you have pushed forward, of the breach of the fundamental principles of the common agricultural policy, of your refusal to return to minimum wage and your total free trade against the very principle of community preference. the time has come, on the eve of a new reflection on the common agricultural policy, to consider agricultural work as a task of general interest, contributing to the common public good. a new agricultural policy must therefore also be a food, environmental and territorial policy. we must first define the guidelines, the meaning, before deciding on budgetary guidelines. in any case, this would imply the payment of labour through guaranteed minimum basic prices, an agriculture producing added value and employment, agricultural development respectful of food sovereignty against hunger. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of agricultural products, and has recently published a report on the quality of agricultural products. these should be the elements of our discussions to finally get agriculture out of the crisis.
madam president, madam commissioner, thank you for listening to us again. the price crisis in 2007-2008 highlighted consumers' vulnerability to price volatility. the 2009 agricultural crisis is making farms much more vulnerable than the indices show. why would you do that? because the upward trend in agricultural prices was presented by many as sustainable and farmers probably invested far too much in 2008 and early 2009, much because some backlog has accumulated since the early 2000s. on several occasions you have expressed your wish, madam commissioner, to stop interfering in the regulation of markets in the same way. but has it not been forgotten too often in the last 20 years that agricultural products are first and foremost foodstuffs and that we need a certain degree of price stability at both ends of the chain? at the consumer level, on the one hand, because his income does not allow him, in view of his other commitments - mortgage, child rearing, leisure - to cope with price fluctuations. on the other hand, the producer is involved in the production because his activity involves a large capital and very heavy investments. the organization of the sectors including all the links in the chain, including new players - i am thinking of the catering industry or the processors of the third or even the fourth range - can probably put in place private tools for stabilizing prices. do you think, commissioner, that there may be a way forward here, and is the commission prepared to take part in such a reflection?
the doha negotiations were opened in 2001 to redress the imbalances, indeed the injustices, of the international trading system established at the end of the uruguay round when the wto was set up. it was thus recognised that the uruguay round had not fulfilled all its promises to developing countries and that the trade rules were not fair to the countries of the south, particularly in the agricultural field, because they allowed the richer countries to both protect their markets and continue to subsidise their production, including for export, thus ruining many farmers in the south. cotton has become the symbol of this situation. in opening the "development cycle", wto members have therefore committed themselves to correcting multilateral trade rules to ensure that trade actually benefits the economic and social development of all countries, on all continents. it should therefore always be borne in mind that this round of negotiations is not a round like any other and that, even if, as in any negotiation, everyone expects progress on the subjects of interest to him - for the industrialized countries, industrial products and services - it was understood from the outset that this was first of all a round of rebalancing in favour of the developing countries. today, after the seventh ministerial conference, as before it, the negotiations are stuck, essentially on the slopes of capitol hill in washington, as they were yesterday in the sands of cancún, and, at the time, this was largely due to the demands of the european union. by imposing their own demands during the negotiations, the industrialized countries have thus jeopardized the conclusion of the negotiating round and the very credibility of the wto. each one is focusing on its own particular objectives instead of focusing on the overall objective of creating a multilateral trading framework based on fairer rules to enable fairer trade, and which contribute to sustainable development and poverty eradication. the first result of this deadlock is the proliferation of bilateral trade agreements, which are often even more unfavourable to the countries of the south. it's a regression, you know? the european union must therefore take a clear stance. the priority is to conclude this cycle as a cycle of development and not to outbid on industrial products and services. we must not approach this negotiation with a traditional, narrow-minded approach, where each party is simply seeking its own advantage. this leads to a deadlock and misses the point: the need to create a new regulation of the international trading system, which is part of the new global governance that everyone has called for, especially after the g20, to meet the real challenges of today: equitable development of all continents, the eradication of poverty, food security, respect for social rights and decent work and the fight against climate change. the european union must show how, in these negotiations, it is ensuring that the rules of trade contribute to this in the future. this is the angle in which each of the points of discussion should be viewed: on agriculture, respecting the commitments of july 2008; conclude the negotiations on the modalities; guarantee, in particular, special and differential treatment, respect for special products, safeguard mechanisms; to develop agricultural aids towards sustainable agriculture and food security; on products covered by the amna, request tariff reductions from the developing countries i conclude which are compatible with their level of development; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu's external relations.
mr president, despite the obvious failure of trade liberalization over the past thirty years, which has led to massive deindustrialization in the developed countries and the impoverishment of the underdeveloped countries, despite the financial and banking crisis and now the crisis of national debt, which all independent economists agree is caused by financial and trade globalization, mr lamy, the director of the wto, is determined to speed up the total liberalization of international trade. all the statistics we have show that this globalisation has led to mass unemployment and falling wages which will only end when european wages are adjusted to chinese or indian wages. is this the model of economic development that europe should offer to the europeans? there is another. the legitimate protection of european economies against unfair competition from low-wage countries. this protectionism must be accompanied by the creation of a new international monetary system guaranteeing fair trade. it is unacceptable and illogical to separate trade negotiations from monetary negotiations. mr lamy and all the anarchist free traders are not defending the common good, but the interests of the financial and commercial institutions that pay them. if the european institutions continue along this path, the crisis of legitimacy affecting the wto and the imf today will inevitably affect them tomorrow. if that is your aim - to destroy european industry, european agriculture and turn our continent into an economic zone of underdevelopment - then do as mr lamy says. if, on the contrary, you want to save europe, relocate mr lamy, as the french nobel prize winner in economics, maurice allais, is urging. this will be the only relocation europe can welcome.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the doha round was clear. it was to be a cycle for development, a cycle which would enable the developing countries to redress the imbalances created by the liberal policies hitherto implemented under the notorious washington consensus. it is not surprising - and i regret it - that in this time of crisis, the support for fair trade is declining. faced with the united states, which will not move until health reform is passed, and with growing opposition from trade unions and major industrial lobbies, europe is failing to make the lines move, and it is unlikely that an agreement will be reached quickly. the majority of this parliament is therefore taking advantage of this to return to its ideology, that of aggressive trade, based on a single offensive interest. the crisis has a good back. in doing so, by seeking above all the opening up of markets and the removal of all barriers to trade, the right wing has completely forgotten that it is in our interest to have strong trading partners who are fully integrated into world trade. the reality is that no developing country could emerge from such an agreement empowered. with harlem désir, rapporteur for our group on this resolution, we tabled a number of amendments to the compromise text common to the european right. of course, i would like to see my own group's resolution voted on, but that will not be the case. that is why our amendments recall a number of things. firstly, public services must absolutely be left out of the negotiations, because they touch on the basic needs of the population and cannot be left in the hands of the market. secondly, special treatment must be given to products sensitive to developing countries, particularly in the agricultural sector. the food crisis has been swept from the minds of the public by the financial and economic crisis. let us not forget that food sovereignty was to be our top priority, the first of the millennium goals. finally, we believe that the space for public intervention in developing countries must be preserved, not only by excluding any liberalization of public procurement, but also by protecting the nascent industries. these few points, expressed in a non-exhaustive way, represent the bare minimum to ensure that the doha round will be truly pro-development. if it is not included in the final text, i shall call on my group to vote against it. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, on 5 december last the economist and nobel prize winner maurice allais said that the real cause of the crisis was the world trade organisation, which needed to be reformed urgently, his analysis being that the current mass unemployment was due to the total liberalization of trade, a liberalization which serves only the rich. the wto, the g20 and the commission, unconcerned with the suffering of the people, are obstinately trying, in the eyes of international finance and the big capitalist multinationals, to conclude the doha round at any cost and to declare an absurd war on protectionism. to this end, they do not hesitate to falsify economic history by attributing the crisis of 1929 and the second world war to protectionism. they are so shameful and cynical that they claim to be serving the interests of the poorer countries. as maurice allais and other lucid economists have shown, the total liberalization of trade leads to competition between all and against all, to relocations, which leads to wage austerity, mass unemployment and, consequently, to the crisis of our economies. if we don't act, the spread of free trade will lead to the destruction of our civilization much faster than global warming. it is urgent and essential to take the path of a reasoned, reasonable, social and equitable protectionism, of mutually beneficial cooperation for peoples and continents.
in writing. the doha round is still struggling to be concluded and the 7th ministerial conference held in geneva in early december failed to strengthen the multilateral framework for international trade. the wto's work is essential for the global economic recovery. the post-crisis world, which will be a world of interdependence, will thus have to guard against economic nationalism and excessive protectionism by focusing on regulation and the preservation of a loyal framework for trade. the objective we must keep in mind more than ever is the ambitious and balanced conclusion of the doha round. the european union has made a decisive contribution towards an agreement through its constructive proposals on agriculture (many concessions and a thorough reform of the cap). the counterpart to these many concessions must now be found in the progress to be made in the field of nama and services. the wto is an international body that can help to combat inequalities and strengthen the trading capacity of developing countries. however, it needs to be reformed and take into account the interactions between trade and sustainable development.
madam president, i note that throughout the preceding debate you have referred to the debate that is now to take place as a progress debate. the decision of this parliament, confirmed by the conference of presidents, is that we will only vote on the microfinance facility. so i think that this is important. this is a debate on microfinance and not on the progress programme.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i am rather surprised. we will adopt an instrument to put in place an innovative tool, an indispensable tool, to enable those most exposed in this crisis to cope and invent their own jobs of tomorrow. the question is to adopt an instrument with codecision and the council is not there. it is perhaps because the council has nothing to say to us on this matter and does not consider itself bound by the position of the european parliament. at any rate, that is sometimes what we felt during the negotiations. the european parliament will take its responsibilities. the commission will be voting, with the cooperation and good understanding of all the groups, on the microfinance instrument, in line with its action for many years now, mr őry said. but i would also like to recall the pilot projects we initiated. because we know that in this crisis situation, the most vulnerable - those who do not have access to the big banks to unlock loans to finance their initiatives - have the opportunity, through this tool, to launch their own strategy, to create, in a way, their own jobs. i shall not go back on the content, the definition, the scope of the negotiation that took place. this is a negotiation conducted under good conditions. the question of funding is more serious. when you look at the initiative that mr josé manuel barroso launched in the autumn of 2008 to organise the european recovery, this tool was defined as an important tool in the service of a european union strategy. but what has the commission proposed? simply funding a new project by stripping a useful project that was on the table. we had a project for support networks for the most vulnerable - the progress project - which this european parliament had carried out to the limit, and the commission, in order to finance microfinance, simply proposes that we draw on the envelope of the progress programme. this is the kind of ruse which this parliament cannot accept, and that is why we have not concluded the negotiations. that is why, as a matter of responsibility, we are ready to discuss our proposal with the spanish presidency as from the first days of january: 40 million from the margins, 60 million from the progress programme, with 20 million for redeployment, which will make it possible to distribute the effort fairly. we will then take our responsibility as the employment committee to look at how such a programme is being implemented in each of the member states, so that there is a synergy between the different experiments that will be carried out in the member states - we are sure of that - when the whole package is voted on next january.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work she has done and our colleagues for their efforts to promote this new microfinance instrument. this european instrument will make it possible to grant micro-credits to small businesses and to people who have lost their jobs and wish to start their own small business. in this period of financial crisis, the most vulnerable people, especially the unemployed and young people, have been hit the hardest. more than 3.5 million jobs have been lost in the european union this year. with the adoption of this new tool, these people will be able to access more easily the capital needed to start or develop a business and realize their entrepreneurial dream. it should be borne in mind that more than one third of microenterprises are set up by unemployed people. in my area, i am frequently approached by citizens who want help setting up their businesses. i am convinced that this new initiative will bear fruit in preserving jobs and creating new ones. the proposal will facilitate small-scale investments and give micro-enterprises a chance to grow. i would like to welcome, madam president, the real added value of micro-credit, which will go hand in hand with new supporting measures such as training and sponsorship, which will enable the youngest and the unemployed to obtain guarantees and support for their investment projects. i hope that this new instrument for employment will be adopted as soon as possible and that an agreement will be reached between parliament and the council to ensure that this instrument, which is essential to our citizens, and which is even more so in this period of crisis, is maintained. let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that it is small and mediumsized enterprises that create jobs.
mr president, i too would like to welcome the agreement reached in conciliation. it took the intelligence of the swedish presidency, the effective contribution of the commission, the competence of our rapporteurs and the compromise of the representatives of the political groups. let all here be thankful. the agreement is not the news of the day. the major event of the week for the future of the european budget is not happening here in strasbourg, but in copenhagen. there, our great national leaders agreed in two days to raise €2.4 billion for 2010 alone to finance the so-called european union aid to the disadvantaged countries in the field of climate change. we would have been considered irresponsible here if we had not been able to save 81 million from the community budget, and now 2 400 million are coming out of nowhere. i welcome this result, but no democrat can accept such an obscure procedure, devoid of any democratic control - all parliaments, the european parliament and the national parliaments, will be faced with the fait accompli - and with results that are equally unfair for some member states, since some will pay two or three times as much as others of equal wealth. but we should welcome the first: our heads of government are thus acknowledging that the union's common policies can no longer be satisfied with a budget limited to 1% of gross domestic product. they are reinventing a kind of parallel european budget. i look to the new european commission and the spanish presidency to help us lay the foundations for the new budgetary europe, the need for which is no longer in doubt.
mr president, in our union, access to reliable and low-carbon electricity should be recognised as a vital right for every european citizen. to achieve this, our union must pursue a genuine european public energy policy, and not settle the dismantling of a nuclear power station in bulgaria by way of a budgetary procedure. building an energy europe for all means recognising that energy is a public good of humanity and not a commodity; repeal all deregulatory and competition liberalising directives in the energy sector; ensuring control and public ownership of the entire nuclear sector, including on decommissioning and subcontracting issues; to create a european energy agency which would coordinate and pool all the energy research and security efforts of the member states and guarantee equal access to energy for all citizens of the european union; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the energy sector. this eig would make it possible to carry out, in a cooperative framework, major projects in the distribution networks, in the production of energy with low carbon emissions, in research and in security. the money of the europeans would thus be put to good use, serving development and not just the profitability of capital.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i in turn welcome the imagination and the efforts which our institutions have been able to put into effect, by means of budgetary techniques, as president lamassoure has reminded us, as if by a miracle, the very large sums corresponding to the second phase of the economic recovery plan, namely the eur 2 400 000 000. i would also like to congratulate the 300 million which we have managed to secure in order to provide an immediate response to the very serious crisis facing farmers today, hoping that this sum and these difficulties will lead us to a pragmatic vision of their future. we should also welcome the pilot projects and preparatory actions which, as anne jensen has pointed out, are bringing a new lease of life to our budget. i would like to make two points beyond these remarks, which have been very well commented on. i would like to ask a question first and then formulate a political position. i would like to ask you a question: i would like to know what the future prospects are for our union in terms of cohesion policy and the structural funds, which seem to be an element in the eye of the storm for some of the european union's partners. i think it's a testament to what's going on in europe. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the vote on the budget is essentially a deeply political act and we must draw from it a political lesson, which is important and fundamental. the budget of the european union, and this budget in particular, reflects the absence of a european political project, even though, in a context of crisis and at the beginning of our new mandates, european citizens need it more than ever. this budget is the result of the absence of a global vision for europe. the council and the commission have opted to let member states develop their own, often competing, recovery plans and have given up on coordinating economic, social and environmental recovery at european level. no leverage effect sought, no european solidarity stimulated the council and the commission are giving themselves a good conscience by sprinkling a homeopathic dose recovery plan. the 2010 budget provides funding for the second part of the recovery plan, which will amount to €5 billion, a paltry sum. it will allocate €300 million to the dairy fund, which is insufficient when we know that in france, for example, net farmers' income fell by 34% in 2009. the 2010 budget provides for eur 25 million for microfinance and, contrary to the council's opinion, allows the draft budget to be maintained for assistance from the cohesion funds. so it is a bit of a stretch and by default we will vote on this budget, because europe, the citizens, cannot do without its interventions, however insufficient they may be. collectively, however, we must ask ourselves - and this is becoming urgent - how to finance the ambitious policies that europe must have and how to get the european union's budget out of its current, constrained and inadequate framework. beyond the big political statements, the president of the commission, mr barroso, has to tell us how he intends to finance the european policies of the future, on which he speaks a lot, in particular those relating to the new growth strategy and climate change. they will no longer be able to accept a budget as meagre as the one we are presented with.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and our chairman of the committee on budgets, my friend alain lamassoure. i'll make five points. the first concerns research, and in particular the sixth and seventh framework programmes. for reasons of legal certainty, we reiterate to the committee on budgetary control our wish that the european commission refrain from recalculating the financial statements with new interpretations of the eligibility criteria for projects already approved and regulated by the commission itself. we reiterate our demand that the commission not deviate from international accounting and audit standards. the second point is the budgetization of the pensions of the union's staff. we propose that pension claims on member states be booked at 37 billion at 31 december 2008, an increase of €4 billion since 2007 and we propose a study on the creation of a community pension fund. thirdly, we must support the anti-fraud office, which must be strengthened to enable it to fulfil its mission better, particularly in relation to interventions outside the union. fourthly, we want the commission to make arrangements for an interinstitutional conference to be held in order to obtain a positive declaration of assurance from the european court of auditors. this conference would bring together national audit bodies, the european court of auditors, national parliaments and the administrations concerned. the european union is not investing enough and this is a personal proposal: is it not time to consider an investment section in our budget and in relation to the european investment bank - of which i propose that, now that we have legal personality, the european union should become a partner of the european investment bank alongside the member states - we could have an investment plan, particularly on the transeuropean networks? these are energy, highways, high-speed rail, waterways, universities, education, broadband, health, space, and so on.
mr president, i would like to speak on the 'catch the eye' procedure. because i had only one minute, while the agenda said two. i would simply like to add one thing: while i myself and my whole group will be voting in favour of the budget we are discussing on thursday, i would nevertheless like to stress that we are not only facing an economic, financial and environmental crisis - as was mentioned earlier - but also a very deep social crisis linked to the rise in unemployment. i am sorry that the member states have not taken into account strong political signals directed specifically at people in difficulty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the financial perspective. i regret that, because it would have been a strong signal towards a more social europe.
in writing. thanks to the göncz report on microcredit and the controversy surrounding the financing of this project, i went to see what this famous progress programme is that the left is so keen not to skim the last penny to finance microenterprises and individual initiatives. for what is the real purpose of progress, defined as the 'community programme for employment and social solidarity', at the moment? to make some paper. to fund studies and reports. for the moment, the 'target' audience of progress is not the unemployed or the excluded, but the policy-makers and opinion-makers. of the trifling 700 million euros over seven years, some refuse to take 100 million for microcredit. a little less money for the profiteers of the system, a little more for the europeans, with a constant budget: we can only agree! it is indeed time to stop observing the misery and difficulties of our fellow citizens and to take concrete action. however, there is a downside: microcredit is only viable because the banksters, who are so quick to pocket public aid, are not doing their job of financial irrigation of the economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the kinga göncz report on the european microfinance facility. microfinance covers micro-credits (loans of less than eur 25 000) and micro-enterprises (enterprises employing less than 10 people). in this period of economic crisis and because of the considerable decline in the number of loans granted, it is essential that the european union establishes an instrument for the most vulnerable, such as the unemployed, young people and small businesses. when an economy or jobs are at stake, it is essential to stimulate growth with significant investment. the funding will amount to eur 100 million from the budget of the progress programme (community programme for employment and social solidarity) and will come into force on 1 january 2010 (for a period of 4 years). the council must hear this message to move towards an agreement in the coming days.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague kinga göncz because i believe it is essential, especially in the context of the employment and social crisis, to support microfinance by providing it with a specific budget line. it is a privileged instrument in the fight against banking exclusion and poverty. contrary to what the european commission is asking for, we reject the idea of reallocating the appropriations from the progress programme to the european microfinance instrument because it would send a negative signal to economic actors. we must maintain the progress programme, which targets the most vulnerable groups, and it is the joint responsibility of the member states and the european union to implement it effectively in the present circumstances.
in writing. i am in favour of funding social provisions to help workers who have lost their jobs. but this should not relieve companies of their social and territorial obligations. it is not the responsibility of the public authorities to compensate for these intolerable failures. that's why i'm not going.
in writing. we vote against the proposal for a decision establishing a european microfinance facility for employment and inclusion. at a time when so many european citizens are being laid off because of the crisis of capitalism and the utter lack of solidarity shown by those who continue to make profits on their backs, it is time for the european union to change its liberal approach to solving the problems it faces. in the face of market appetites unbridled by the liberal dogmatism of the european union, we need a policy that protects european workers, creators of the wealth that is being taken away from them in the name of profit. here again, it is the europe of big profits and small arbitrary charities. this is evidenced by the small amount of money committed, the opacity of its allocation and the individualistic logic of the vector encouraged. this is not the europe of the general interest and social equality that our peoples need.
mr president, the european commission, on the occasion of the swiss referendum on the minarets, issued a statement which was disturbing and ambiguous to say the least. it felt it was necessary to reiterate to member states who might be tempted to take similar decisions the need "to respect fundamental rights such as freedom of religion". this barely concealed threat requires clarification from you, even though opinion polls show that all the peoples of europe would have given a large majority to such a referendum if it had been proposed in their respective countries. mr barroso, do the countries of the european union have the freedom to submit to their people a referendum in every respect identical to the one held in switzerland on 29 november? yes or no, would the commission oppose the sovereign decision of these peoples if they voted as the swiss did? if, as we believe, the european union is now more totalitarian than democratic, it is high time we admitted it.
mr barroso, the question was clear. i was not asking you about a hypothetical referendum, but about a referendum which is identical in every respect to the one proposed to the swiss people. if one of the member states of the union were to put the same question to the swiss, by means of a referendum identical in every respect, what would be the commission's reaction? do they have the right to do that? and would the commission oppose the decision of the sovereign people if they decided to vote as the swiss did? the question is clear.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i thank you and welcome your comments. europe now has two essential documents to weigh in favour of new peace initiatives. first, the courageous report by the swedish presidency - as you have just mentioned, mrs malmström - which calls for progress towards two states, including palestine, within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital. secondly, the text of the ambassadors, the heads of mission, which shows that the israeli authorities are pursuing a strategy of house demolitions and settlement, which is contrary to human rights. this strategy aims to cut off jerusalem from the west bank to bury the very idea of a palestinian state. but, of course, our words here will have no effect unless they are followed by concrete actions on our part. we must act and to act we can suspend the eu-israel association agreement as long as the israeli leadership does not respect international law. so we need action on our part to stop the colonization, to lift the blockade on gaza, to destroy the wall of shame, to return the refugees, to free all political prisoners. let me add something. we've been talking about the release of private shalit. i'm with you on that. but at the same time our parliament must also vote for the release of another european citizen, a french-palestinian, namely the young salah hamouri. yes, freedom for private shalit, but also for salah hamouri!
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mrs malmström and the swedish presidency on the excellent conclusions they have drawn, which are in line with what we all were hoping for, namely the affirmation of the european union's responsibility for peace in the region on the basis of international law, and i believe that this is essential. however, i am surprised that a year after the military invasion of gaza, there is no reference in these conclusions to the follow-up to the goldstone report which the council had requested. where are we in the follow-up to the goldstone report, to which the council has committed itself, particularly as regards internal investigations with the various parties concerned? secondly, i welcome the fact that east jerusalem is being considered as the capital of the future palestinian state, or jerusalem of the two states. however, these conclusions lack concrete operational options. however, there are many in the mission report of the heads of state visiting east jerusalem. i therefore ask the commission and the council to clarify the practical arrangements so that the european union does not in fact recognise or legitimise the ongoing annexation of east jerusalem by israel, through economic measures in particular, but also through the mass displacement of the palestinian population.
in writing. at its last foreign affairs council, the council of the european union expressed its wish for the establishment of a palestinian state in the near future, within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital. europe is thus setting the framework for a viable solution to the middle east conflict, acceptable to both sides. the solution proposed by the council is fair. israel and palestine can engage on this basis in the exchange of land for peace. the european union has a major role to play. it can help inter-palestinian reconciliation, without which there will be no palestinian interlocutor in the negotiations with israel. in the context of the union for the mediterranean, it can help to revive the israeli-palestinian dialogue.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a very large majority of european citizens believe that the fight against terrorism must be a priority at european union level. they are fully aware of the importance that europe, with its global vision and the implementation of coherent policies, can have in this area. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament, thanks to the treaty of lisbon, can fully fulfil its role as a co-legislator in this area and provide the necessary democratic scrutiny for european policies to combat terrorism. the first decade of the twenty-first century is drawing to a close. we all remember that it opened with one of the most terrible tragedies that mankind has ever known. we cannot allow terrorism to develop and we must find a firm and adequate response to it. the taliban, the al-qaida network, osama bin laden represent the most immediate and most pressing danger to the european union. extremist islamism, the shameful hijacking of the muslim region, and hatred of the west and its values fuel this terrorist and murderous network. we must fight this phenomenon and, i repeat, the european union must be extremely firm and extremely vigilant in the face of this threat. the european union is also concerned about the serious and persistent violations of human rights and the freedoms of expression, association and peaceful assembly in zimbabwe. the natural or legal persons, whether or not belonging to governments, whose activities undermine democracy, respect for the most basic human rights and the rule of law in zimbabwe, must be severely punished. in the same vein, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must take targeted action against those who threaten the peace, security and stability of somalia; we must enforce the general and complete arms embargo on somalia and ensure that humanitarian aid is delivered, accessed and distributed in somalia. the most vulnerable and the most deprived are the ones who suffer most, and we cannot stand by and do nothing. i regret, however, that the role of parliament in this area is being diminished by the lisbon treaty, contrary to the spirit of the treaty and the importance it confers on parliament. but the european union must punish those responsible. does this mean that it should forget its most fundamental principles? no, i'm not going. the european union's action on the international stage must be based on the principles which guided its creation, development and enlargement, and it must promote these values in the rest of the world.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? what we call restrictive measures is something very important and i know that many members have their views on it. that may be a little difficult for those listening to this debate to understand. let me begin by describing how the council uses these measures. then i will come to the treaty of lisbon. restrictive measures against third countries, individuals, natural or legal persons or other entities are an important tool of the eu's foreign and security policy. in general terms, they are used to bring about a change in a particular policy or activity. they should, of course, be used as part of an integrated, comprehensive policy which may include political dialogue, various forms of incentives and conditions to be met. restrictive measures alone are not always sufficient to bring about change, but they can be a means of putting pressure on repressive regimes, stopping the flow of money and other resources that support such regimes or terrorist networks. in some cases, restrictive measures are imposed by the council when we implement resolutions adopted by the un security council under chapter vii of the un charter. in such cases, the various eu legal instruments must strictly adhere to these resolutions. it concerns situations and acts, including terrorism, that pose a threat to peace and security. they can only be part of the eu's external action and are therefore different from the action to create an area of freedom, security and justice, which is our objective within the union. the council interprets the treaty of lisbon as meaning that we apply article 215 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to these and other restrictive measures in the framework of the common foreign and security policy, including in relation to terrorism. the eu can also decide to apply additional measures in addition to those decided by the un, and we can also introduce measures on our own. sanctions decided by the eu on its own initiative may be imposed to support other foreign and security policy objectives respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law and good governance all in accordance with the eu's obligations under international law. today, measures are usually directed directly against those identified as responsible for the policy or measures being targeted, or against their interests or sources of income. this is more effective than broad sanctions in the form of general trade embargoes or other more arbitrary measures. targeted sanctions are designed to minimise the negative consequences that may result for the population of the country concerned. this aspect is very important when the council is preparing a decision to impose new sanctions. all penalties are reviewed regularly to evaluate their effectiveness. they can be adjusted or cancelled altogether, depending on the development. under the lisbon treaty, restrictive measures are also a continuing tool of the common foreign and security policy, through council decisions under article 29 of the treaty. an important change introduced by the new treaty is that decisions on restrictive measures affecting natural and legal persons are now subject to judicial review. this means that the court can review the legality of a sanction decision. it wasn't like that before. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, regulations are adopted on the basis of a joint proposal from the high representative for foreign affairs and the commission, in accordance with article 215 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the european parliament shall be informed of such a decision. i understand that this change is not welcomed by parliament, since the council is no longer obliged to consult parliament on sanctions affecting individuals. but that is how we interpret the treaty. it is important to point out that any decision on restrictive measures, and their implementation, must always be in accordance with international law. restrictive measures imply restrictions on certain rights of the individuals against whom they are directed. the sanctions must therefore, of course, respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. this concerns procedural rights and the right to legal protection. the measures must also always be proportionate to the objective. with the experience we have gained in applying sanctions, we have made careful assessments and looked at how to apply sanctions in a good way. a number of concrete improvements have been introduced. this includes the criteria for the application of certain sanctions, but also the reasons for the listing of an individual, a natural or legal person or other entity. this must be reviewed continuously and adapted if necessary. in this work, the council has taken account of the european parliament's resolution of last year on the evaluation of eu sanctions as part of the eu's human rights policy.
vice-president designate of the commission. − mr president, as the presidency said, the questions you have put forward raise important issues in relation to the future management of restrictive measures or sanctions in the eu. following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty we now have to make a choice as regards the legal base for the proposed regulation which amends the al-qa’ida and taliban sanctions regulation. our view is as follows: firstly, the new treaty has added a specific provision to the article in the former ec treaty on foreign policy-related restrictive measures or sanctions. article 215(2) provides a new legal base for restrictive measures against natural or legal persons and groups or non-state entities. it expands the scope of the former article 301 and should be applied as the legal base for amendment of the al-qa’ida and taliban sanctions regulation. secondly, article 215 applies when there is a common foreign and security policy (cfsp) decision. the al-qa’ida and taliban sanctions regulation implements a cfsp decision which requires that regulations be made to implement certain un security council resolutions. these resolutions are binding for eu member states under international law. thirdly, we consider that a double legal base – article 215(2) and article 75 – is not workable. that is because the objectives, scope and procedures of the two articles are different. i note that parliament’s legal affairs committee and legal advisers have made the same assessment. in conclusion, it is our view that the new treaty has provided specificity and clarity on the legal base for restrictive measures against natural or legal persons and groups or non-state entities. article 215 addresses the role of parliament and council and the legislator should not deviate from the treaty. we were also asked to provide information on fundamental rights-related improvements in the work of un sanctions committees. the proposed amendment of the al-qa’ida and taliban sanctions regulation implements the findings of the european court of justice in the kadi case. in that judgment the court made a number of comments on ways to improve the listing procedures applied by the un al-qa’ida and taliban sanctions committee. the points made by the court are the motivation to amend the listing procedures of the regulation. a number of un security council resolutions have set out the procedures for handling the sanctions list at un level. most recently, un security council resolution 1822 provided that a summary of reasons should be made available on the un al-qa’ida and taliban sanctions committee’s website in connection with each listed person, and provided for a review of all names on the list by 30 june 2010, with provision for regular review thereafter. the resolution demanded that the relevant state take measures to inform the listed person of their listing, the reasons for it and information about exemptions and delisting requests. the approach in resolution 1822 has since been replicated in resolution 1844 on sanctions in relation to somalia and in resolution 1857 in relation to democratic republic of congo. resolution 1822 provides for a review of the measures contained in it after 18 months. that period expires at the end of this year. work is ongoing in connection with the review but the commission is not in a position to indicate what changes to the procedures the un security council will decide.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i am talking here about targeted sanctions, as they are called, smart sanctions, those which also have a direct impact on the fundamental rights of individuals, organisations or legal entities of any kind. and these basic rights are important. this can be, for example, freedom of movement, but also protection of property. and for these reasons, these targeted sanctions must meet a number of minimum procedural standards and legal certainty. i would add that compliance with these legal and procedural standards is essential to the very credibility and therefore to the effectiveness of these targeted sanctions. it was the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe - we remember this in this house - which, through the voice of one of its parliamentarians at the time, dick marty, called for transparency and the right of defence, and showed the absurdities of this lack of transparency in the effectiveness of the listing and delisting, which could also affect innocent people who themselves were not aware of their situation and were unable to respond to the situation they discovered, generally by chance. that is why access to data, as mentioned by louis michel, the communication of the elements that justify the listing, protection in the transfer of personal data, are essential elements of this procedure. secondly, it took great perseverance on the part of the victims of the un and eu sanctions system and the mobilisation of civil society, human rights organisations and also the european parliament to have their rights recognised by the court of justice of the european communities. and the amendments proposed by the council on the black lists depend on the proposals that have been made, including by the european parliament. that is why the european parliament must be absolutely involved in these decisions, in their implementation and in their control, since history shows that it was the european parliament which made possible the reform of the council regulation.
mr president, in accordance with rule 110 of the rules of procedure, we are here to discuss the report of the swedish presidency - i salute its prime minister, who has been a courageous, useful and effective presidency - but we are also here to consider the report of the european council of 10 and 11 december. in this connection, i would draw the attention of the president of the commission, the guardian of the treaties and their application, to article 15 (6) of the treaty on european union, which provides that the president of the european council is to present a report following each of the meetings of the european council. it seems certain that mr van rompuy, the new president of the european council, will not be there, and i regret that. he has been elected since 1 december 2009, he is engaged in intense diplomatic activity and i think his first political act should have been to come and appear before the european parliament. it was therefore his turn to present the conclusions of the european council of 10 and 11 december 2009.
mr president, it is not the role of the heads of state or government to deal with the application of treaties which have been ratified by the peoples.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the epp group is proud of the way in which you, mr reinfeldt, have managed the rotating presidency in accordance with the treaty of nice. it is also reflected in the latest proposals of the european council, whether on climate, the crisis or the establishment of a europe of security, a europe that protects. yes, my group agrees with the honest and responsible management of european affairs, which has been the hallmark of the swedish presidency. honest management because at a time when so many of our friends, neighbours and relatives are hit by the crisis because they have lost their jobs or are still threatened with losing them, europe has not made false promises to them. it is building the future, our future, by ensuring that companies find the means to create, to innovate and thus to create jobs. responsible management, because on the climate, on security, but also on employment and the economy, europe is implementing the model of the social market economy. it organizes the timetable, the modalities of a concerted, gradual but difficult exit from the crisis. it moralizes the disastrous practices of past decades in the financial markets. it supports smes and strengthens social cohesion, without which nothing sustainable can be achieved. but let us be careful not to repeat the mistakes of the lisbon strategy, which, by setting unrealistic targets, has disappointed more than anything else. the new economic strategy, called 'european union 2020', should not be a new gas factory. president reinfeldt and mr barroso, on the climate, europe is showing a spirit of responsibility here too. by deciding to release €2.4 billion a year over three years, europe is setting an example by accounting for one third of global aid to the poorest countries. i now expect our partners to do the same. i expect copenhagen to make balanced commitments, short and medium-term commitments, and verifiable commitments, with financial sanctions for non-compliance. in other words, i expect copenhagen not to be a fool's market for europe. the epp group endorses the council's guidelines on security with the new stockholm programme. our citizens are demanding greater security, but also respect for public freedoms. they want to be protected in their daily lives, they want to know what they eat and what they consume, but at the same time they want - and this is normal - to live in a more just society and respect others. this is precisely the kind of europe that we, the epp, defend and promote. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in a few days, we will see if europe's courage on climate has paid off. we'll see if the us, china and the others are just playing catch-up or if they want to qualify for the final of the global responsible actors. i thank the swedish presidency for its efforts and especially, now that it is christmas, mr fredrik reinfeldt. you've done a great job for six months, it hasn't been easy, we all know that. i also wish the best for herman van rompuy, who will take over for two and a half years, and i ask the council not to forget that now the council and parliament are playing in the same league with a little more transparency.
mr president, madam minister, the swedish presidency has experienced what can be described as historic moments: the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the appointment of the first president of the european council, the high representative, but also the climate conference or the appointment of a new commission and again - allow me this little reference - the telecom package. these events have created hope. but there are still a few half-tons in the balance sheet. firstly, our parliament, which is committed to the organization of european supervision of financial markets, has welcomed the proposals put forward by jacques de larosière's group of experts as an indispensable step. the conclusions of the ecofin council of 2 december are far below this realistic level of ambition. i would like to remind you that parliament will be careful to rebalance the proposals before it in order to make the financial markets more resilient. the same applies to financial commitments for the countries of the south in the fight against climate change. while in copenhagen the poor countries demanded real commitments on long-term financing, the council only managed to commit eur 7.2 billion over three years. this is a first step, it must be admitted, but it is far from being proportionate, especially since it is partly the result of redeployment. finally, in the financial field, we welcome the willingness to impose rules and to act vigorously in both supervisory and taxation matters. i note in particular the mention in the council conclusions of a worldwide levy on financial transactions which we socialists have been calling for for over ten years. there's still a long way to go. the exploration of new financial resources for employment, intra- and extra-european solidarity and financing the fight against climate change is a major challenge. i would ask the council - it is christmas time - to prepare a decision on own resources for the coming years.
mr president, mr president of the european commission, mr prime minister, i would like to know, mr prime minister, what your opinion is of the conclusions of the troika, since the heads of state or government decided to create this concept of a troika in order to give continuity to the presidency. and since you are concluding the troika between the french republic, the czech republic and the kingdom of sweden, what is your feeling about this instrument and what conclusion do you draw from it?
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister, first of all i would like to congratulate the swedish presidency on the six months of hard and very ambitious work it has done, in particular by bringing forward, alongside the heads of state and government, within the g20 a common and ambitious position on financial regulation. the copenhagen conference also shows that the european union has an ambitious, very high, very voluntary and common position. i would therefore like to welcome his positions and his decisions. europe has been a driving force in proposing, negotiating and concluding major agreements in the context of this financial crisis that is hitting all of europe. the european council also took a decision last week on the new financial surveillance architecture and negotiations with the european parliament have been launched, since it will now also be the european parliament's responsibility to monitor the implementation of the decisions taken in pittsburgh. the financial crisis has exposed the weaknesses of our financial surveillance system. the aim was to ensure better coordination, but also to renew and strengthen the powers of the european authorities, which are urgently needed. i hope - and here i am addressing the commission - that we will remain vigilant in maintaining this level of ambition in the implementation of our decisions.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the swedish presidency on its action, particularly in the areas covered by the civil liberties committee. the challenges were considerable: to make the transition between the legal regime of the treaty of nice and that provided for by the treaty of lisbon and to draw up the next multiannual programme which will define the priorities to be given to the area of justice, security and freedom for the next five years. i would like to welcome the so-called stockholm programme which will provide an ambitious political impetus to strengthen this area by 2014. but much progress remains to be made, particularly in the area of asylum. i welcome the establishment of the european asylum office, because it is essential to bring closer not only the laws but also the practices of the member states. but the other proposals in the 'asylum package' will have to be adopted as soon as possible to avoid the need to develop a third phase of the common european asylum system. with the major institutional changes introduced by the lisbon treaty, we can now look forward to the adoption of more ambitious and better quality legislative instruments under the forthcoming presidencies.
mr president, i just wanted to say that, if i understand the amendment by mr papastamkos correctly, it is to recall the commitment made in hong kong by all wto members to eliminate export subsidies. so, contrary to an error mentioned on our ballot papers, the socialist group does support this amendment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the böge report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. its objective is to preserve the employment or to facilitate the return to the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of changes in the structure of international trade and the global financial and economic crisis. three years after its creation in 2006, and in the current context of the global economic and financial crisis, it was essential to relax the conditions for the intervention of this european fund. sweden, austria and the netherlands are now covered by these more effective and rapid measures, and i look forward to all eu member states having the best possible use of these funds. the maximum annual amount of the budget, linked to the 2007-2013 financial framework, cannot exceed eur 500 million, but it is essential that these funds be fully implemented, which is not the case today. the european union must use all the means at its disposal to deal with the consequences of the economic crisis.
in writing. swedish, austrian and dutch employees are being sacrificed by globalisation. we reiterate our firm opposition to the logic inherent in this fund, which makes european workers mere 'adjustment variables' allowing the smooth running of a neoliberal globalisation that has never been called into question. the interests of giants such as ford, the current owner of volvo cars, which has just posted almost $1 billion in profits in the third quarter of 2009, or aviva, axa and blackrock, the main shareholders of heijmans n.v., now supplant the general interest of european citizens. the fund is accompanying this plunder.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on a new mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund. these included two payments totalling almost eur 24 million to the automobile industry in sweden and austria. another application concerns a construction company in the netherlands. the automobile industry is the main beneficiary of this fund, although it continues to close factories, relocate production, lay off many employees and weaken its subcontractors. it has also benefited from other financial support from member states under economic recovery plans and other support, notably in the context of policies to combat climate change. this funding, which is intended to provide training for redundant workers, a necessary measure to restore them to employment, is not in return for the european automobile industry's commitment to no longer laying off its employees. i am not in a position to support such a policy which in fact supports relocations.
in writing. no, global free trade is not a solution to the current crisis. on the contrary, it is one of the root causes. the doha round has been stalled since the beginning and has been at a standstill for a year, but there is a deep problem: the system has reached its limits, which are bearable for all, developed, emerging and less developed countries, as the international jargon calls these states which are plunging into poverty, forced to integrate into a global market of ultra-competitive countries which are straddling them. in europe we live in the constant paradox of the pseudo-elites who govern us and who want us all to be both poor and rich: poor, because underpaid to be competitive in the trade war against the rich, low-wage countries, so that we can consume the low-priced and often poor quality imports that flood our markets. for decades, a french nobel prize winner in economics has been arguing the obvious solution: free trade is possible and desirable, to the mutual benefit of partners, only between countries or entities with the same level of development. for the rest, much to the chagrin of the prophets of ultraliberalism, trade must be regulated.
in writing. i hope that the doha development round will lead to fair and equitable trade relations. that is why i supported my group's amendments to improve this resolution to strengthen the development requirements, to ask that public services not be involved in the negotiations on services, to ask, as regards industrial tariffs, that the need be recognized to take account of the level of development of each country and not to open up these sectors abruptly to competition, and finally, that in the agricultural field special and differentiated treatment for certain products be preserved.
in writing. the resolution of this parliament is constantly oscillating between the need to take certain measures against terrorist organisations or the states that support them, such as the freezing of their assets, or diplomatic and economic sanctions, etc., and respect for the rights of individuals and organisations to defend themselves against such accusations and sanctions. clearly, this parliament has chosen to privilege the rights of suspects over the defense of nations. but if democracies cannot effectively combat terrorism by denying their own values, they cannot afford to give the impression of laxity and weakness. i am afraid that is exactly what this resolution is doing. that is why, beyond the institutional aspects, we voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important for us as meps to exercise our parliamentary scrutiny over sanctions decisions against those associated with al-qaeda and the taliban, as well as those threatening the rule of law in zimbabwe and somalia. the legal basis chosen is unacceptable, and we are calling for consultation in the codecision procedure and for being kept informed of the progress of the work of the un sanctions committee. finally, i regret the council's very administrative approach to this matter, even though the measures in question concern individual rights.
madam president, yes, we must get out of the afghan trap in which george bush's policies have trapped us. however, the question is not when, but how to leave afghanistan. if the many mistakes of the international community are not addressed, we risk losing the trust and support of the afghan people to the taliban completely. the militarization of humanitarian and development aid must stop because it fuels confusion and discredits ngos. we need to rely more on the emerging civil society and reformists in afghanistan. why is europe in afghanistan? because the americans decided to or to get this country out of obscurantism and violence? we need to strengthen the best performing afghan structures, prioritise investment in services to the population - education, health, transport - and support good governance in local authorities, because the culture of these countries invites us to reflect on the relevance of the nation state. europe should, for example, support mrs habiba sorabi, governor of the province of bamiyan, a first in the history of this country where, as you remember, we went in 2001 to help women.
madam president, in these very complicated cases, i think we should try to have simple ideas. first question, simple "why did we go to afghanistan?" we went to afghanistan with a purpose. the aim was to dismantle the training camps of al qaeda, the backbone of international terrorism, which threatened us and threatened the stability of the region. today, these camps no longer exist. secondly, unfortunately, whether we like it or not, the western troops deployed in afghanistan are increasingly being seen as occupying forces and not as friendly forces. this is a major daily challenge that must be borne in mind. i invite those who disagree to go there and see how it is. thirdly, the security situation is very bad. in 2004, in kabul, you could walk. today, kabul is a vast, fortified camp. so, not to draw the consequences of an operational failure in the field and, in the end, to apply only the old methods, is to encounter the repetition of these failures. what are the consequences of all this? i think that actually, we have to acknowledge that we have dismantled al qaeda - that's a real observation - and we have to go. can we leave today, right now? no, because if we left, it would certainly be chaos, and perhaps the return of those camps that we were fighting against. so we have to leave on condition. the first, as everyone says, is that we must give the keys to the afghans themselves, allow the afghanisation of the conflict. the second is that we have to talk to all the insurgents - note that i don't say "taliban", because the word "taliban" is very restrictive. and thirdly, we must accept that the social standard is not perfect. let us not think that our european criteria are the criteria to be adapted to afghanistan. you have to accept that. madam president, it is always more difficult to complete a military operation than to start one, and in order to know how to complete it, we must remember the initial objective, which was to ensure that the al-qaida camps are dismantled. it's done today.
madam president, a lot has been said about the action plan on afghanistan. i regret that in the presentations we have had today, little more emphasis has been placed on the link between the eupol mission and the nato mission in afghanistan. this is a mission we must fulfill. the quantitative and qualitative problems it is facing are largely due to its links with nato and, to be effective, we must solve them as quickly as possible. i wish we could have talked about it a little more. my question concerns pakistan, whose chronic instability is a factor of crisis for the whole region and also for afghanistan. i see in the action plan that cooperation is envisaged in the areas of counter-terrorism and security with pakistan. we know that there is a great ideological and sometimes structural and organizational closeness in this country between radical islamist movements operating in kashmir and on the afghan border. i wanted to make sure that the modalities, the nature and the timing of the assistance we are considering were well calibrated so as not to allow this proximity to have extremely perverse and harmful effects.
mr president, we now know that the humanitarian situation in the east of the republic of congo, and particularly in the eastern province and in kivu, would be catastrophic. the security situation of the civilian population has deteriorated, in particular, as a result of joint military operations by the congolese armed forces and ugandan and rwandan troops against all armed rebel groups, leading to numerous massacres and human rights violations. sexual violence is a very worrying and widespread phenomenon, which has become part of the daily lives of congolese. in addition, many acts of violence are committed against humanitarian workers. official figures indicate that some 2,113,000 people are displaced in eastern congo. since 1 january 2009, more than 775,000 new displaced persons have been registered in kivu and 165,000 in the eastern districts of the eastern province. at present, it is estimated that humanitarian aid is needed for nearly 350 000 vulnerable people: children, widows and victims of sexual violence. a rapid reaction by the community is therefore essential.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed the fears connected with the implementation of the services directive. the example of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is emblematic in this respect. some member states have not complied with the transposition deadline and are experiencing problems due to the shortcomings of the text. while this directive provides a solid basis for mutual recognition, the specificities of certain professions are not taken into account. however, the recognition of diplomas without the establishment of genuine common levels of qualification and training, including for higher education, can only create complexity and mistrust on the part of states, professionals and citizens. the most obvious example is the medical profession. thus, a french midwife is qualified to prescribe medication and is trained to do so, which is not the case in other countries. what happens when an unqualified midwife arrives in france without further training and has to write a medical prescription? similarly, some specialties do not exist in all states. this directive is essential for the free movement of workers, which is the basis of the european idea, but it must be improved and supplemented, and the difficulties encountered must be used to identify the professions for which language teaching and harmonization of training are necessary. i would like to mention the remarkable initiative, supported by all health professionals, to create a european card, a real guarantee for the user as well as for the client or patient, and i invite the commission to extend it to other professions, which will make it possible to optimise mutual recognition and to gain the trust of citizens.
mr president, a lot has been said about the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. the question is why this directive, so important and so desired by everyone, is so difficult to implement. well, it's simply because it's difficult and complex in its daily and operational application. i see three main difficulties. the first is, of course, the language problem, which has been mentioned. the second is the complexity of the procedures to be followed to have the validity of one's diploma recognised. sometimes it takes a long career before a first diploma is recognized. and the third, perhaps, is the heterogeneity of the initial formations. in this connection, i think it would be a good thing if the commission asked the member states to designate a single, competent professional authority for each profession, which would be responsible for continuing training, since continuing training is one of the solutions. these competent authorities should be instructed to meet at european level, in the form of a board, to define a common european certification. the first is that the training of the unemployed is not a matter of the individual, but of the individual.
mr president, the greens/efa group believes that cohesion policy is at the heart of one of the most structural approaches of the european union: solidarity. europe is strengthened whenever european solidarity is expressed. this is a fundamental question for us. we believe that the european commission must incorporate the following principles: firstly, since territorial cohesion is a political priority, it must also be a budgetary priority. secondly, the region is the relevant level of partnership for a regional development policy. we cannot accept the renationalisation of this policy. thirdly, cohesion must also be used to bridge the most serious economic and social gaps within a single territory, to the benefit of deprived urban areas or, in the direction of rural areas in difficulty or very poorly served due to structural handicaps, such as islands. finally, all the regions of the union must be eligible for cohesion policy in a differentiated way, of course, according to their level of wealth, but the european union must be able to make its contribution whenever cohesion policies are at stake.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our group is unambiguously in favour of a strong and well-funded cohesion policy, capable of facilitating the convergence of europe's regions. we believe that this policy must be reformed and strengthened if it is to be effective. it is up to parliament and the european commission to draw up the directive together in the most transparent way. i welcome the creation by our parliamentary committee on regional development of a think tank on the future of cohesion policy. the consultation on the post-2013 budget and the future objectives of this policy must involve all the relevant actors: the member states, the regions, the european commission and the parliament. it is not possible to weaken or even abolish the regional and local levels which give this policy its full meaning. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the date of expiry of the current financial framework is uncertain, as is the scope of the reform of the financial perspective. it should be recalled that the financing of this policy must remain stable. it is also essential to reject any prospect of renationalising cohesion policy, which would deprive the regions of the choice of the distribution of the structural funds and would reduce the regional dimension of this policy to nothing. we expect the commission to adopt a clear-cut, voluntary attitude in preparing a white paper on territorial cohesion, mr commissioner. as regards the distribution of these funds, we do not want equality, but financial equity, in the context of harmonious development based on different findings and situations in different territories. cohesion policy must not only focus on the most financially deprived regions, but must address all european regions, including the overseas regions. it is essential that parliament can have well-identified local interlocutors. it is at this price, and only at this price, that the european structural funds will be distributed fairly and efficiently.
mr president, i listened very carefully to the speeches of my colleagues. i think there are two main things that emerge from these interventions. the first is the secrecy surrounding the commission's mysterious 'non-document', and that is why we are very much looking forward to the commission's explanations. and the second is the rather strange attitude which seems to be to redefine territorial cohesion policy around entirely new axes, which seem to have little in common with cohesion. i am thinking in particular of the question of foreign policy, which is understandably a priority for the high representative, but much less so, of course, in this area. the common agricultural policy has unfortunately already been largely sacrificed to the laws of the market. we therefore think it would be extremely interesting if the commission were to tell us much more clearly what its objectives are now. finally, i do not think that global warming is a matter for cohesion policy.
mr president, i support the proposal by mr schulz. i think negotiations are extremely difficult. we are talking about a human case, a woman, and we are looking for a political solution. i therefore believe that when we are looking for a political solution, we must not make the situation worse. i ask that we be allowed to find a political solution first. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the use of this fund is in line with the logic expressed by the energy component of the european energy recovery plan. i'm abstaining for the same reasons.
in writing. the energy component of the european economic recovery plan contains some notable proposals. the creation of a specific 2020 fund, the increase in state requirements on the environmental performance of products and the encouragement of the construction of energy-efficient buildings. the dismantling of the first generation nuclear power station in kozloduy, bulgaria, is an urgent necessity. however, it is equally remarkable that the eu does not envisage any form of assistance to any nuclear phase-out project. but the eu is obviously not resolutely committed to the urgent break with productivism. how could it, committed as it is to the absolute priority given to the principles of liberalism as exalted by this recovery plan? that is why i have decided to abstain on this chapter.
in writing. i voted with little enthusiasm on the european budget for 2010, so as not to prejudice the financing of the second tranche of the european recovery plan (energy infrastructure and broadband internet), the launch of a new european initiative for microcredit (up to €25 million in 2010) and emergency aid for the dairy sector (an additional €300 million). i would remind you that in 2006 i voted with my french socialist colleagues against the financial perspective for the years 2007 to 2013. we had denounced at the time a budget at a discount, which, because of its weakness, would not allow the development of innovative policies of a large scale. today, our analysis is confirmed: this budget does not allow us to face the crisis and reflects the absence of a european political project. while the unprecedented economic crisis europe is experiencing would require a strong and common response from the union, the council and the european commission have chosen to let member states develop their own recovery plans. it is not with such a budget that we will be able to boost growth in a sustainable way and combat climate change effectively.
in writing. the eu budget for 2010 has just been adopted. it will finance the second and final phase of the european economic recovery plan, worth €2.4 billion, and that is good news. unfortunately, negotiations on the financing of a european programme for microcredit, a particularly useful and necessary instrument for boosting growth, are stalled in the council. the council's refusal to accept parliament's amendment to increase aid to the poorest in the context of an unprecedented economic and social crisis is also extremely regrettable, even though 2010 was declared the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. on the other hand, the european council's announcement last friday of the "willingness of the eu and its member states to contribute to the financing and rapid implementation of €2.4 billion per year from 2010 to 2012 to help developing countries fight climate change" is a step in the right direction. but if the council is to be consistent and responsible, it must accept the need and urgency of a mid-term review of the financial framework for 2007-13, otherwise this news would unfortunately remain a mere announcement.
in writing. i voted with little enthusiasm for the 2010 budget, because it does not meet the challenges we face, not only in the context of this serious economic and social crisis, but also in the perspective of combating climate change. in my vote, i wanted to focus on support for the european recovery plan, the launch of a new micro-credit initiative (eur 25 million in 2010) and emergency aid for the dairy sector (eur 300 million). in future, we will have to review the effectiveness of the budgetary framework of the european union in order to have collective means of action that are truly adapted to the reforms.
in writing. the budget of the european union is like the policies of the european union: neoliberal and deaf to the interests of the majority. the crisis of the capitalist system and the environmental crisis, the result of the forced productivism of the unrestrained pursuit of profit, will have done nothing. the eu continues to blindly apply neoliberal dogmas without regard to the evidence of their economic inefficiency and their ecological and social harmfulness. just yesterday, parliament voted on aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund. this fund is nothing but the socialized support of the unreasonable relocations of large groups such as ford, nokia and dell. and that's just one example. what about the european economic recovery plan, which advocates free trade, flexible working and productivity? no, this europe is not the solution, it is the problem. voting for this budget would be contrary to the general european interest.
in writing. i gave my full support to the resolution by my colleague michael cashman to ask the commission and the council to implement a revision of the rules on access to documents of the european institutions, in order to respect the clauses of the lisbon treaty on transparency. this is essential for the democratic and responsible functioning of our institutions and must give european citizens renewed confidence in europe.
in writing. it is essential to increase the transparency of european action and to allow the widest possible access to the documents of the european institutions in order to make the functioning of the union more readable to european citizens. but we must be careful in this respect and guard against any demagogy. this sacrosanct principle of transparency must be limited in the name of the effectiveness of european action. the risk of allowing full transparency is that the debate will be fruitless, as members will be afraid to speak out on sensitive issues. the negotiations by definition require discretionary spaces, otherwise these discussions will take place in informal settings away from formal meetings and we will reach a result contrary to the desired goal. so yes, more transparency, and i welcome the entry into force of the lisbon treaty which will allow this development, but this must not be at the expense of the smooth running of decision-making at european level.
in writing. it is the duty of all european institutions, both national and community, to represent all european citizens without distinction. secularism is the only principle that allows institutions to allow all citizens access to public services in accordance with their convictions. it is our common philosophical heritage and the guarantor of the principle of civil peace around which the eu was built. it is therefore absolutely essential that italy comply with the judgment of the european court of human rights in lautsi v. italy. as the court recalls, the display of religious symbols must be prohibited in all public establishments within the eu. it is high time that the crucifixes, imposed in classrooms under mussolini, were removed from the public school space.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution condemning the serious ethnic violence that has recently occurred in the congo and which has led to the displacement of almost 44 000 people, who are completely destitute and left to their own devices. i am particularly concerned about the issue of sexual violence as a weapon of war, an unacceptable crime which must not go unpunished and against which the european union must mobilise. we must ensure that those responsible for these human rights violations in the congolese armed forces are brought to justice.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to the question 'why should the european parliament be concerned with this issue?' i would say that the anti-homosexuality bill submitted to the ugandan parliament violates fundamental freedoms and should not be approved at all. the current ugandan law already criminalizes homosexuality. for years, ngos have sounded the alarm about the violence against these populations. however, if the new law were to be adopted in january 2010, it would make the situation worse and would make homosexual acts punishable by life imprisonment or the death penalty for hiv positive homosexuals. this law would also be a major obstacle to the fight against aids. there are other laws against homosexuals in africa. however, this is special because it obliges citizens, as mr cashman said, to denounce homosexual acts within 24 hours. if you are the doctor, parent, or teacher of a homosexual, you must report him to the police, or you will go to prison. furthermore, the proposed legislation criminalizes the legitimate work of non-governmental organizations, international donors, humanitarian associations, which work for the defense and promotion of human rights in uganda. as soon as the bill was introduced in the kampala parliament, it was strongly condemned by human rights defenders around the world and by several states including france, the united states, ... (the president cut the speaker off) and by the european commissioner for development, mr de gucht. uganda must comply with its obligations under international humanitarian law and the cotonou agreement. the european union must urgently approach the ugandan authorities and reconsider its commitments to uganda if the situation is to continue.
i am pleased that we can discuss today the anti-homosexuality bill which was tabled in the ugandan parliament on 25 september. at a time when we are witnessing an increasing challenge to human rights, it seems to me essential, in the light of this liberticidal law, that the european parliament, beyond the divisions between its political families, should be able to express the strongest condemnation of this proposal and call on the ugandan parliament to reject this bill and to revise national legislation in order to decriminalise homosexuality. as mr cashman said earlier, all the non-governmental organizations opposed the project, considering it a serious obstacle to the fight against aids. the commission, through its commissioner, mr de gucht, and a large majority of the member states, in line with the statements made by president obama, have already condemned this initiative. i therefore call on the commission, should this law be adopted, to reconsider our commitment to uganda. a country which, at that time, would be in breach not only of international law but also of the fundamental principles of the cotonou agreements could not continue to benefit from the support of the european union. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that everyone must be free to choose his sexual orientation, without fear of being imprisoned or killed. there can be no debate on this principle.
