madam president, a new opinion poll commissioned by the campaign for an independent britain has just been published. most of those surveyed said that the european union is out of touch, corrupt and is poor value for money; 83% of those polled want uk law to be paramount and, therefore, to revoke the supremacy of eu law; and 71% want a referendum on continued british membership. unfortunately, there is not much chance of that, given that the labour government will not even give them a referendum on the lisbon treaty, which it promised in its election manifesto. the british people want free trade, friendship and cooperation with europe and the world, not to be governed by the european union. if there were a genuinely fair referendum that asked the british people if they want ever-closer political and economic integration with the eu or to leave, an overwhelming majority would vote to leave.
madam president, i have been deluged with messages from growers from all over the south-east of england who regard this proposal as near catastrophic. it will result, they tell me, in smaller crops and in higher prices, and it will open the way for importers who do not have the same criteria imposed upon them. there will be job losses, some units will become non-viable and production will stop. there will be closures in my constituency because there are, in some cases, no alternatives to key substances used by specialist growers. there has been hopelessly inadequate impact assessment in many countries except my own, and the switch from risk assessment to hazards has already been commented on. if you are going to use hazards as criteria you might as well ban petrol and caffeine. even the science is against you; pest resistance problems will be aggravated; there will be a loss of biodiversity. integrated pest programmes have already decreased the need for pesticides. what is important are the options, not quantity. and you seem to have ignored the benefits of crop rotation. you have no right to destroy one of the few sectors of british agriculture still thriving just to appease danish disinclination to process drinking water from the ground.
madam president, i do not know what is going on, but i am reminded of vladimir ilyich lenin, one of whose most famous quotes is ‘worse is better’. as i enter the last six months of my tenure in this place, i can see that is just what is happening. worse is better! it is better from my point of view, because the sooner people realise just how damaging the eu is to their incomes, their livelihoods and food production, then we will be better off out – and that is what i stand for. this report takes no cognisance of hazard or risk; it cannot identify between the two of them. let me tell you now. it is icy out there – that is a hazard. there is a risk i will fall over when i walk home. you can legislate for neither of them. it will damage food production. it will put farmers out of business. it will make food prices higher, particularly in the uk. i will be voting against this because worse is better and, when the message gets out, we in britain will leave the eu.
madam president, i do not accept that we have yet got a balanced package on this matter. for me this debate highlights two follies: first the abject folly of the eu, without pausing for even an impact assessment, dashing down the road of banning multiple plant protection products, not caring that there are no substitutes and that indigenous food production will drastically suffer, particularly in the cereal and vegetable sector, and thereby forcing ever-increasing dependence upon imports from countries who care nothing about these things. madam president, i have heard much talk in this debate about science, but what sort of science is it that does not subject itself to proper impact assessment? the second folly is that of my country in particular, which is perhaps the most affected by these proposals, having subjected itself to qualified majority voting in the council on these matters to the point where we are now probably going to be impotent to resist them. it is due to the idiocy of subjecting ourselves to qualified majority voting that we find ourselves in this position, and yet some under lisbon would say we should hand over more and more subjects to that category.
madam president, on the breyer report, i say to the commission, why are you against an impact assessment? what is so vital or of so much concern that the commission are opposed to an impact assessment? there is no scientific evidence to suggest that some of the products that we have been using are dangerous to public health. some of them are, but there are quite a few you propose to take off the menu that are not dangerous. i am thinking particularly here of one called triasol which is vitally important to the production of wheat within the european union. you have failed, and i mean this quite clearly, you the commission have failed the general public when you failed to stop gmos coming into the european union, and the commission admits this. you have admitted the fact that you have failed to stop gmos coming into europe. you failed when it came to the report that i did on maximum residue levels. we have a member here from dg sanco – the commissioner is busy talking at the moment, but when she has stopped talking she might just listen to what i have got to say. they have failed to control imports coming in with maximum residue levels of pesticides. they are being found on supermarket shelves. so, if we are going to ban these products within the european union, what are you going to do about the imports coming in? are you just going to say: well, it does not really matter – these products are going to be coming in anyway? let us leave it and just assume that people will not bother about it? farmers throughout the european union have been the most responsible people when it comes to producing food and putting this legislation in place basically means saying to them that they are fools and they are not interested. no farmer in his right mind would use a chemical which is dangerous to public health. we have done a huge amount of surveys on this. i leave you with one or two last thoughts on this. we are about to ban battery cages for the production of eggs and yet you will give a derogation on that. yet that is fairly important to people. i worry about the fact that you, the commission, have failed so far to put in place all the legislation which we have. it is vitally important here that you give the farmers the opportunity to prove themselves and prove the fact that these products are safe.
madam president, commissioners, can i say to you that less than a year ago we were debating in this chamber what we were going to do about global food security, and was there enough food in the world, and we were terribly worried about it. here we are, less than a year later, debating this legislation tonight, which has the potential of actually reducing food production in the european union; and there is a morality about producing food because what you must remember is that if we in europe do not produce food we can probably pay for it, but the developing world cannot. much of this legislation will affect our crops – not only wheat, as robert sturdy has said, but potatoes in particular. we have had two of the worst summers that i have ever seen in the last two years in northern europe. we have needed fungicides to reduce blight and actually grow the potatoes. and if people in europe do not eat potatoes, what do they eat, commissioners? they eat rice and they eat pasta both of which – and certainly rice – the developing world is very short of. further to what robert sturdy has said, many of these pesticides and fungicides we are using, if they are used properly and you have the proper withdrawal period, pose no problems, and by using these particular chemicals we can produce very good food. and if you stand and tell me that you will stop imported food coming in that has been actually sprayed with these particular types of chemicals – you will not! for the simple reason that, if they had been properly applied, you can actually test your wheat as much as you like as it comes through the port of rotterdam, but you will find no residue there. so i think we really do have to wake up to the fact that we in europe need to produce food and we need to produce it safely, make sure that we reduce the amount of chemicals we use, which we are already doing, and we have got to make sure that we are training farmers to spray properly, which again we are also doing. so, i would urge you: please, have a proper impact assessment, because it was two years ago you did your impact assessment. we have had two of the wettest summers on record; it is time for you to look again. we really do urge you to have a proper impact assessment.
madam president, the common agricultural policy has done enormous damage to british agriculture at enormous financial and economic cost. now we have these proposals on pesticides. it is estimated that this directive could mean the banning of 15% of pesticides. it is estimated that such a ban would cut wheat yield by 26% to 62%, potato yield by 22% to 53% and some other vegetable yields by 25% to 77%. this will have the effect of sending retail prices soaring, affecting worst those least able to pay. i wonder whether the rapporteurs could give us the identity of just one person afflicted by, or who has died from, the effects of these pesticides? probably not! but i could tell you of lots of my constituents who cannot afford to pay more for their food bills.
madam president, i have to say i have grave concerns about this proposal that is before us here tonight and the effects it will have on the future of our agricultural industry. i want to put on record that i support the amendments put forward by mr sturdy, which i have signed, and which i am happy to support. i think they will at least help give the industry some support in the future. yes, we do need and we do require legislation, but it must be good legislation. we do not need to damage production in the process. we need a strong impact assessment to know what effects this will have, and this is what is required and what is needed, and this we do not have at present. we must have more facts and not fiction, and we certainly should dwell on the facts. there is no point in europe legislating itself out of business because we cannot control what is imported in. this is where the commission have total double standards on what they impose within the european union and what they allow into the european union, for all that will happen is that people will go outside.
the next item is the report by wolf klinz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) (recast) (com(2008)0458 – c6-0287/2008 – 2008/0153(cod) (a6-0497/2008).
mr president, with all the controversy currently surrounding regulation of the financial services industry and the headlong urge to rush towards over-regulation, this is a welcome example of common-sense, appropriate and measured regulation of the industry. mr klinz and the commission have done a good job and i happily support this report and the proposed revision. ucits are a vital part of the european – and, yes, of the scottish – investment management industry. they are a vitally important savings vehicle for savers and investors, not just in europe, but all over the world. imitation is surely a sufficient compliment and, even in the us, the ucits is the model to be aspired to. mr klinz has incorporated much of what i consider to be vitally important, such as diversification into new investment products and techniques with reasonable security at a common-sense level. most importantly, we have to achieve greater economies of scale in europe. many of our ucits are too small and there are too many of them, so we must facilitate mergers. personally, i would have liked to have seen that go even further to allow ucits with different investment objectives to be able to merge more easily, provided that the investor was adequately protected and informed of such changes. thirdly, the management passport is a vitally important new provision which will allow for greater economies of scale, greater efficiency and the reduction of red tape. this must only be in the interests of the investor. the revision will therefore be good for the industry but, even more importantly, it will be good for the investor and the saver, not just in europe but all over the world. i am very glad to support mr klinz’s report and the ucits revision.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. (the sitting was suspended at 09.40 and resumed at 10.00.)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, do enjoy the 10th birthday of the euro because i very much doubt you will be celebrating the 20th. what we have seen this morning has been reminiscent of the old soviet times. do you remember when the five-year plans were announced to be successes often before they were even launched, with much talk of record harvests and wonderful production figures for tractors? much like those days, we have been treated this morning to a succession of unelected, ageing bureaucrats telling us what a great success the whole thing has been. it is all delusional stuff. the idea that the ecb has done a good job is extraordinary. it was last july when the european central bank put interest rates up, just at the very moment that the markets were going into meltdown and rates were being slashed across the rest of the world. of course none of this surprises me because what this euro is all about is a political class imposing its will upon the peoples of europe. remember that only two countries – denmark and sweden – had a referendum on the euro and both of them said ‘no’, that little word that you try and avoid if you possibly can. the euro zone has never been tested but it is about to be. spain is in economic trouble. italy, as german economists at the time said, should never have joined the euro, but the situation in greece is, i think, where we should focus our attention. thousands of young people out on the streets demonstrating, demanding their government does something, demanding that their government cuts rates, demanding that their government devalues. but the greek government is stuck inside the euro straitjacket. there is nothing it can do. there is nothing that a future general election can do in greece to change anything. when people have taken away from them the ability to determine their own futures through the ballot box, then i am afraid that violence becomes the only logical alternative. what you have done with this euro is you have trapped people in an economic prison. you have trapped people in a völkerkerker from which it will take great courage to get out. it will take leadership, or possibly the inevitable economic meltdown. you can boo, you can jeer, but remember this: britain outside of the euro has been able to devalue, has been able to slash interest rates. we have been able to do the things that we need to do. jeer on if you like, but have you noticed that on the bond markets this morning greek bonds are trading 233 basis points higher than german bonds? now i know that most of you in this room will not even know what that means and those that do will do their best to ignore it. you can go on burying your heads in the sand if you want. you can ignore the markets if you want to, but in time the markets will not ignore you.
mr president, in the last 200 years there have been at least half a dozen attempts to create single currencies or fixed exchange rate mechanisms. all have failed, all have damaged the participants, and so it is with the euro. the imbalances long predicted by sceptics are starting to bite. italy’s competitiveness is shot to pieces. spain’s experience is like the bull in the corrida: proud and strong to start with, but bleeding to death in the sand by the end. greece’s recent unrest is clearly linked to unemployment, resulting from an overvalued euro. bond spreads between greece and germany have reached unprecedented levels – over 200 basis points. the markets are speculating on a euro break-up. we in britain can thank heaven that we kept our own currency and are not part of the euro zone’s slow-motion train wreck. happy birthday to the euro!
in writing. – the tenth anniversary of the vote on the proposal, presented to parliament, on behalf of the council of ministers, by gordon brown (then president of the council), to lock exchange rates at that day’s level and to create the euro, is an opportunity to celebrate ten years of success, stability and strength of what is now one of the two leading currencies in the world. the current economic crisis would have been compounded by turmoil on currency markets had we still had the peseta, lira, drachma and so on as separate currencies fluctuating wildly against each other. the euro has been a rock of stability for its members, as illustrated by the contrasting fortunes of iceland and ireland. the anniversary is also an opportunity to debate whether britain’s long-term economic future lies with euro membership. of course, britain can manage in the short run outside the euro, but over time, we stand to lose out: our businesses are handicapped in the european market by conversion costs and hedging costs that their competitors in that market do not face; and inward investors into the european market will prefer to be in the major currency area rather than the smaller one.
madam president, we do seem to be having rather a lot of roll-call votes at the moment, which is a little irksome for people like me whose machines are not working. could i therefore record ‘yes’ votes for everything and ask for a technician?
madam president, i have been trying to wave to an usher throughout the voting procedure in order to give explanations of vote, but because you conducted votes so brilliantly and we got through them so quickly, an usher has not quite made it too me yet. i am holding a piece of paper asking to give two oral explanations of vote on the mcguinness and breyer reports. i would appreciate it if you would allow me to do that.
madam president, i am grateful to you for giving me the opportunity to explain why i abstained on the mcguinness report. it focuses on a very important aspect of the european union and that is the absolute essentiality of ensuring food supplies to those who are starving or those who do not have a proper food supply. nobody could be against that, and i am certainly not against that. but the problem with the report, in my view, is that it looks and refers to the common agricultural policy and does not address the fact that there is an urgent need for the reform, and further reform, of that policy. it is not serving the people of europe well; it is not serving the farmers of britain well. until that burden is taken away from the european taxpayers, then we are going to be in difficulties. yes, the objectives of the report are right, but i am afraid that it fails very badly in addressing the core problem.
madam president, i am grateful for this opportunity to explain why i also abstained on this report. i think most people in this chamber, from whatever part of the political spectrum they come from, would agree that food security is very important. the problem is that we do not agree on what food security is. to many of us, food security is making sure that there is enough food for the people of the world – wherever they come from. for others, it is an excuse for protectionism. food security to them means only food produced in the eu for europeans. ‘local production’ is a phrase that i often hear used. i hear people using the excuse of food security to keep out imports from the rest of the world, thereby condemning the high-quality exports that we see from many of the poorer countries of the world and condemning many more farmers in poorer countries to poverty. to say that a common agricultural policy should be the cornerstone of food security is an amazing statement which needs to be shot down.
madam president, i concur with the comments made by my excellent colleague mr syed kamall on this matter. i abstained because it was my party’s whip to abstain on this report, but everybody knows that food security is a very important subject to us all, which is why i am bemused by the way that this place deals with such a matter. in this particular report – which i believe we all voted for – we mention the problem we were just about to create for ourselves by voting for the plant protection products directive. we have just undermined european food security. about three minutes after we voted for this report we were basically ensuring that our farmers would not be able to grow enough food for our continent in the future. i find this bizarre. it is a shame that nobody else seems to read some of these reports that go through this place.
madam president, this goes to the core of this whole european union. here we are approving more money to try and persuade the public to vote for the wretched lisbon treaty. the public, on being given a chance in the republic of ireland, made it absolutely clear that they do not want it and if the people of britain were to be given a chance – and they should have been because they were promised it in the last general election by the labour government – they would also vote overwhelmingly to reject this treaty. the message should be heard loud and clear in the european union, it really should: people do not want it. people do not want more control in brussels and strasbourg. people want their own governments and their own legislatures to be making the decisions that affect them. until that message is received we will keep pumping more taxpayers’ money into forcing people to the polling box in the pretence that you actually persuade them to change their minds. they will not do so.
madam president, much can be inferred from the title of this report: ‘perspectives for developing civil dialogue under the treaty of lisbon’. never mind that, as it seems periodically necessary to remind this house, the treaty of lisbon is not in force. it has been three times rejected in its several forms by 55% of french voters, by 62% of dutch voters and by 54% of irish voters. focus rather on the orwellian ministry of love bit of the title ‘perspectives for developing civil dialogue’. now, ordinary voters unversed in the peculiar idiom of the european union might not understand those words, as we in this house do, to mean creating a new propaganda budget to try and convince people to change their minds. i have to say that not every euro in the vaults of the european central bank will serve to convince people of an intrinsically bad idea. dialogue by definition involves two parties. the eu has to be able to receive as well as transmit. that means putting the treaty to a referendum. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
madam president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain the way i voted on this report. when i read the title of the report, ‘civil dialogue under the treaty of lisbon’, it reminded me of a phrase by mahatma gandhi. when he was asked about western civilisation, he said, that ‘that would be a good idea’. therefore, when i read this title, ‘civil dialogue under the treaty of lisbon’, i thought, ‘that would be a good idea, would it not?’ if only we had civil dialogue. if only we had two-way dialogue. one of the previous speakers said that dialogue is very much a two-way process, but if we look at some of the civil society organisations being funded in order to promote the treaty of lisbon, we only see organisations that are fully signed up to promoting this fundamentally undemocratic treaty. how many organisations that are against the treaty will be funded or will be allowed to be promoted? there is no two-way dialogue, and that is why the citizens of the eu, when they are given the chance and asked about the treaty of lisbon, will choose to reject it.
madam president, thank you all for your patience in the chamber. i wanted to speak on this but i have just got too much to say today, i am so excited by all the votes that have been going through the chamber today. yes, the common fisheries policy; yes, let us talk about sustainable development – but the two are inherently contradictory. if you want to look at a sustainable fisheries policy, you have to look at property rights and market-based solutions. look at those countries where fishermen are given rights that are tradable and passed on from generation to generation. that is the best way to make sure that we have sustainable fish stocks, not some artificial communistic method where you have central planning in fishing. that is why we are seeing great depletion of fish stocks, and we will all suffer in the end.
madam president, i have a confession to make. since i was a child there has been one vegetable that i hate: peas. but i have the misfortune to represent britain’s largest growing pea-growing area, which has given me a huge problem with the breyer report. i agree with the aims of this report. i agree with the aims of the legislation to promote the health of our environment, the health of us as individuals, but it really potentially threatens a huge agricultural industry in my region. after much soul-searching, i have abstained, but i wish to make it clear that i think our legislative procedure in this respect was flawed. we had so much information at the end – conflicting and otherwise – that i, and i think many others, would have welcomed the possibility of a third reading, or of conciliation, to make sure that we have protected all interests.
madam president, the efficient and effective use of pesticides is a necessity. whilst the protection of the environment and safeguarding of public health go hand-in-hand, i believe we have to balance the needs of consumers and producers. whilst i welcome the aims of the breyer report to reduce red tape, i am not able to support this. i have met with a number of experts and farmers and nfu representatives in my west midlands constituency who all have deep reservations about the effects that this report will have on crop yields. i share their concerns. my biggest worry is that there has not been a proper impact assessment by the commission and there is no clear indication of what this report will mean for agriculture. at a time of rising food prices around the world, i do not think that now is the time for us to have a knee-jerk reaction to introduce measures which may have adverse effects on food production. that is why my delegation introduced an amendment for a thorough and long overdue impact assessment.
madam president, i voted against this simply because the proposal has been hijacked in effect by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and commissioners. the rapporteurs yesterday boasted about standardisation, and yet this is allegedly a union of diversity. if there were one area where judgement, discretion and diversity are needed, it is perhaps this. this was essentially an agricultural issue, but the danish commissioner for agriculture was nowhere to be seen at any time, and that is a disgrace. the reason, of course, is because of a conflict of interests since the danes fail to process their drinking water after it comes out of the ground. farmers in my part of the world feel totally let down and frankly insulted by the fact that there are some assumptions here that they do not know what they are doing, and they need to be told. essentially you have added yet another group to those in the uk who frankly loathe the european union’s interference.
madam president, i think that, when one considers the european project, there is a dialectic at its heart. we talk about democracy, yet we ignore the democratic will as expressed in referenda in france, the netherlands and ireland. we talk about food security, yet we vote on a report which has the potential to undermine food production in the european union. we talk about helping citizens and farmers in poorer countries, yet there will now be, as a result of this vote, a call to ban imports from farmers who have used pesticides that are now banned in the european union. i simply have a plea to my colleagues in parliament and to the commission: please, let us think in future about the unintended consequences of our legislation. i agree with mrs wallis about the legislative process and that there should have been a third reading. i agree it has been rushed through and i think we all agree that there has been an insufficient impact assessment on a scientific basis. let us make sure that does not happen again.
madam president, i tried to undermine the compromise by voting against those parts of this report. i will explain why by reading out a letter to me from james mowbray, who is a farmer near skegness in my region. he said, ‘i have personally been involved in the application of crop protection products for over 40 years. i have always applied products with a sensitive approach to other human beings as well as wildlife. i have incurred no apparent detriment to my health or the wellbeing of the environment. i therefore find it distressing that the possible withdrawal of many products, including the triazole fungicides, is based on less than scientific arguments and will make my business not particularly viable and reduce the availability of home-produced food’. i received these comments from him and from literally hundreds of other people, from empire world trade, based in spalding in lincolnshire, john manby in parker farms in leicester, john clark, who is based in nottinghamshire, jonathan reading and hundreds more names. that is why i voted to undermine the compromise.
in writing. − the mcguinness report deals with issues of immense global importance. in two years world food prices have increased by over 80% and cereal stocks have fallen to dangerously low levels. pressure on global food stocks are also coming from relatively new sources such as the move towards increased use of bio-fuels. i welcome the general thrust of this report and, accordingly, voted in favour.
in writing. − the issue of the cap and global food security is important. we must make sure that we play our part in the eu ensuring that the hungry across the world are fed. it is a disgrace that there are people in this world starving to death due to our lack of political coordination.
in writing. − the labour delegation will be voting in favour of the cap and global food security report, despite the strong reservations we have on the stance taken on the cap. we do not agree with the prominent role attributed to the cap in ensuring food security nor with the criticism of the cap reform, which has seen a shift away from quantity to quality production, the implication being that this has undermined our food security. our position is that we need to modernise our agricultural policy, and not return to a production-based policy that encouraged massive over-production and a distortion of markets, undermining the ability of other countries to produce and trade agricultural goods. we do, however, feel that the report raises many very important points on the issue of global food security, such as recognising the importance of food security as a key political priority for the eu, urging for greater cooperation on a global level, calling for more investment in developing countries to build up their production capacities, and urging for agriculture to be placed at the heart of the eu's development agenda. all of these points are equally important and demand that we look beyond the narrow focus of those using this issue as justification for a more interventionist and protectionist cap and that we support the report.
in writing. − this report refers to the lisbon treaty, which, let me remind you, is not in force. it is therefore highly presumptuous, not to say arrogant, to be invoking the name of the lisbon treaty as if it was already a fact of life. in case you had forgotten: the lisbon treaty was sunk by the democratic will of the people of ireland. they put the brakes on the project because they wanted a different kind of europe. in voting the way they did, the people of ireland also spoke for the citizens of every other member state, including my own, who were denied a referendum by their governments. ireland has been bullied into holding a second vote, but the irish people are unlikely to take kindly to being treated with such contempt. in future, we should avoid bringing ourselves into disrepute by discussing hypothetical scenarios such as the lisbon treaty. it merely serves to expose the eu’s arrogant disregard for democratic opinion. i voted against this report.
in writing. − it is premature to be talking about what will happen once the lisbon treaty comes into effect. the treaty remains in limbo and is still subject to a possible second ‘no’ vote by irish citizens in another referendum later this year. while this remains the case, we should not be acting as if the lisbon treaty is already in force. doing so lays us wide open to accusations of arrogance and contempt for the democratic process, which must still be concluded one way or another. furthermore, i am not in favour of eu funds being spent on promoting the lisbon treaty through civil dialogue or any other means. we have free media and vigorous democracies in the member states and are quite capable of conducting this debate on our own terms without the commission trying to influence matters. in fact, in my country, the uk, the commission’s attempts to promote further eu integration tends to be counterproductive. i, like other british conservatives, want to see the european union going in a different direction by doing less and doing it better. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − i abstained on this vote because, although i and the uk independence party fully support equality between men and women, the uk already has equality legislation which can be changed or improved when required by our own democratically elected and accountable parliament. the eu is anti-democratic and undemocratic and is not a legitimate guardian of anyone’s rights.
in writing. − the eu has made significant progress in improving consumers’ rights. it is disappointing that some member states have yet to transpose the unfair commercial practices directive; and this house has today sent a clear message that those member states should address this shortcoming.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mr guerreiro’s report. the report correctly notes that eu fisheries policy should promote the modernisation and sustainable development of the fishing industry, safeguarding its socio-economic viability and the sustainability of fisheries resources, and guaranteeing the supply of fish to the public and food sovereignty and security, the preservation of jobs and improved living conditions for fishermen. this is the opposite of what the cfp has achieved over the last three decades, and accordingly i support the repatriation of fisheries management.
in writing. − this legislation has the eu written all over it – a classic case of using a sledgehammer to crack a nut. its effect on farmers and horticulture businesses in north-east england, the region i represent, will be considerable. undoubtedly, businesses will shed jobs and even cease trading altogether. undoubtedly, our hard-pressed farmers will be faced with yet more bureaucratic headaches. undoubtedly, agricultural yields will go down. the fact that we are also debating global food security this week is therefore richly ironic. pesticides are essential for growing food, and they are already subject to a stringent safety regime. no-one disputes the importance of protecting the environment but this legislation is unbalanced. it is overly prescriptive and lacks flexibility. the commission has failed to carry out a sufficiently comprehensive and up-to-date impact assessment study. for these reasons i voted against this proposal.
in writing. − i voted against the amendments to the breyer report. there has been a degree of unnecessary scaremongering in britain about this report meaning ‘the end of conventional agriculture as we know it’. this is not the position taken by farmers in other member states. nevertheless, the real impact is unclear with the failure to provide a satisfactory impact assessment on the proposal in its current form. i therefore support the idea of a derogation post 2015 when current authorisations lapse in the event of any member state having serious concerns about the availability of a pesticide having serious effects on crop yields.
in writing. − i voted against the conclusions and recommendations of the trialogue between council, commission and parliament because:- this legislation was to be passed in too much haste, because both parliament and commission finish their terms of office this coming summer which is not a sufficient reason to legislate in a hurry;- there has been no impact assessment of the proposals; - the recommendations are not based on sound science, but more on emotional fears about the causes for the alarming worldwide disappearance of honey-bees and on fears about human health;- the farmers whom i represent in lincolnshire and in the east midlands unanimously asked me to resist the proposals, and being practical people who grow our food their opinions should be respected.
in writing. − i have decided to vote against this report for two reasons. firstly, we need to give our farmers the tools they need to do their job and this proposal will limit their ability greatly, especially for those farmers who work in damper and wetter climates and need to use pesticides to protect crops and their livelihood. i am not aware of any farmer who wants to use pesticides, but they are an essential part of ensuring food for our population at an affordable price. secondly, no impact assessment has been done on this legislation which i find outrageous due to the serious implications it could have on the agriculture sector.
in writing. − i was disappointed to see the common position amended. i would prefer the common position as it would give a better balance between public health and food production.
in writing. − the continued lack of a thorough impact assessment means that the eplp is unable to support the compromise package negotiated between the council and the european parliament rapporteur, as there is no clear indication of its impact on food production. labour meps do wish to see better and safer pesticides, but we also have a responsibility to both producers and consumers to be sure what the eventual effects of the current proposals on agricultural production and food prices would be. whilst the deal certainly would not have the catastrophic effects that have been predicted in certain quarters, the uncertainty involved is great enough for the eplp to be unable to support the compromise package.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i am very pleased to say that the uk is excluded from this regulation because it is not part of the schengen zone. however, the british government has said that it will keep in step with the regulation to ensure that its documents are not perceived as second class. this implies that it thinks the proposals are first class and then it will be bound by the substance of the regulation anyway. but, as this report shows, all kinds of issues are raised concerning the authenticity of biometric data and its verification. what kind of originating documents are used for the initial identification of the applicant, and how can it be sure that they are authentic? once a passport has been issued, it is not of much use unless the data on it can be checked against the identity of the holder on some kind of national or centralised identity database. the report acknowledges that there should be highly secure storage mediums for keeping such information, but we all know from experience in britain that there is no such thing as a highly secure medium for storing such data. personal and highly sensitive information for literally millions of people has been lost or disclosed from government databases over the last few years. everyone in the uk knows that their personal information is not safe in the hands of our government. this report does not speak about the reliability of biometric data itself. in fact the uk passport service’s biometrics enrolment trial in 2004 showed a failure rate of 1 in 3 for facial recognition, 1 in 5 for fingerprints and 1 in 20 for iris scans. biometric identification is an attractive idea, but it is not the fail-safe mechanism we all might imagine. the uk independence party will therefore be voting against this report.
mr president, i also wish to thank mr coelho. this report is very important for the future of europe and for its 500 million citizens: for their safety, their security and for anti-terrorism measures, amongst others. if the technology is there, as ms zdravkova said, we should make use of it. from the point of view of children, ms angelilli, mr lambrinidis and others have said that it can be a vital weapon to counter child-smuggling, for example. however, the crucial point is really in the new article 3, which states that the purpose of biometric data is to verify not only the authenticity of the document but also the identity of the holder by means of directly available comparable features. at the moment, most countries rely almost exclusively on photographs and very few people, i would suggest – perhaps not even you, mr president, nor even mr barroso – look like their passport photos – nor, indeed, would many of us want to! so i think that if there are new identity procedures and methods available, we should be prepared to use them. as for ms gacek and mr batten and their anti-british, ‘hit-and-run’ contributions – because they are not here now to hear any response – i would suggest that the uk system is probably no better or no worse than many others in the european union. we have checks and balances, but we can do better. if new 21st-century technology is available, then we should be prepared to make use of it and, as ms grabowska said a few moments ago, we should be prepared to amend it constantly to make the best possible use of what facilities are around the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, thank you, marco, for a very good report, but sadly i have to agree with other people in this house that you strayed beyond the remit – and i know why. the previous speaker said that it is impossible. if we do not ask for the impossible, how will we ever achieve change? but of course you have gone beyond your remit. we are not going to have broadcasts of political groups. meps putting up on their websites or through parliament’s information service what they do and where they go does not mean that they are effective; it does not mean they are good. the regulation is about access to all of the documents held, received or produced by the three institutions when acting in its legislative capacity. that is what we need to get back to. we need to define what the ‘legislative capacity’ is. we need to look at how the regulation has worked up until now and we have to improve it. that is what i want to do in conjunction with all the players, and i am pleased to welcome here the swedish minister, cecilia malmström, who worked originally on this. we all want to take the whole issue of access forward. why? because we recognise that many people realise that there are things that happen, particularly in the council, as you have illustrated, whereby their ministers, their national ministers, are involved, but how they debate and how they vote is secret. once we reveal that element of secrecy and we expose how member state ministers actually vote, then those ministers are held accountable back home in their member states and suddenly national citizens feel connected to all things european. so, marco, you have sadly gone wider than the remit, especially with this dream that you have. if you had not declared that you were an italian radical i would never have known it from this report, but the fact that you expect political parties to broadcast their internal debates – it is not going to happen and indeed, as the previous speaker said, all you do is expose division rather than reinforce the fact that we are here because we believe in a europe that is accountable to its citizens. that is why drawing up the voting list will be difficult. my heart is with you, but i have to follow my head.
mr president, as british conservatives, we are generally strong protagonists of open markets, but, as a number of speakers have confirmed, the underlying thrust of this report is strengthening esdp and eu integration rather than any real economic benefits. it certainly has nothing to do with strengthening defence capabilities. i can see that there could be some marginal benefits in easier uk access to some other european countries’ markets in defence-related procurement. but there is a far greater advantage for others to access the uk market, which has the largest defence spend – and, by the way, the uk already has the most open defence procurement market in europe. of particular concern is that, under the proposed rules, a government or firm that has made huge investment in some aspect of defence r&d may no longer be in a position to recoup this investment in the development and production phase. development contracts are expected to be opened up to european competition, leaving a national government with no means of protecting intellectual property, jobs or export opportunities. it will be a brake on r&d. there are other concerns as well, but i have to say that this report is not really necessary from a defence, industrial or, indeed, economic point of view.
member of the commission. − as you know, slovakia joined the euro zone on 1 january this year, so we now have 16 of the 27 eu member states participating fully in the emu and sharing the same currency. who will be the next? it is not up to the commission to answer that question. it is up to the candidates who wish to join the euro area to apply. at the present time we know which eu member states would like to join the euro area as soon as possible but unfortunately do not fulfil all the criteria required by the treaty – the baltic states, hungary and others – and we know that there are two eu member states, namely the uk and denmark, that got an opt-out so that they can be excluded from the responsibility of all eu member states to prepare themselves and their economies to join the euro area one day. i do not know who will be the first to join the euro area after slovakia. it could perhaps be one of the two member states with an opt-out. it is possible that in the coming months denmark, for instance, might decide to no longer have an opt-out and to apply to join the euro area. in fact, denmark fulfils all the criteria to join the euro area according to the treaty, but it is up to the danish authorities, the danish parliament and maybe the danish citizens in a referendum, to decide. this morning we were commemorating here the 10th anniversary of the euro. i am sure that in the next 10 years all – or almost all – the eu member states will join the euro area because, in these times of crisis during this difficult economic period, the advantages of being a member of the euro area have increased a great deal. those who have not yet joined the euro area realise that the advantages are much bigger and much more important than the responsibilities they must bear as members of the euro area, or the difficulties. regarding your remarks, if i were in your position i would not argue against the euro area in terms of interest rates. ask denmark what has happened with their interest rates during this period of crisis. denmark is a non-euro-area member whose currency is linked with the euro and whose central bank closely follows the decisions of the european central bank. the markets are not rewarding those who are not in the euro. they are putting higher risk premiums on them.
member of the commission. − i shall start by describing what the situation looked like just a few years ago. we all remember that the dairy sector was very stable with very few price fluctuations, but over the last few years the situation has changed dramatically. firstly in 2007, i remember clearly in august and september, we saw huge increases in dairy prices and then we experienced last year the same or an even worse reduction in prices, so the situation today is that prices are very close to intervention prices and in some parts of europe even below intervention. i can assure members that i am extremely concerned at the quick deterioration of the european dairy market. we have support measures in place that can be activated to support the dairy sector and we have already taken action. contrary to the normal situation, where the private storage scheme for butter is normally activated on 1 march, we have decided to activate the scheme from 1 january, which means that the production that has taken place in december is also eligible for this scheme. intervention buying or granting export refunds are other instruments that are available to support the dairy sector or the dairy market efficiently. with regard to the intervention system starting in march – and therefore also covering the production that will take place in february – butter and skimmed milk powder may be purchased until the end of august. first, for fixed quantities at fixed prices, followed then by a tendering system should the situation so require. i would also like to remind you of the situation back in 2007. i think we all remember the immediate and quick reaction that was witnessed by the european parliament, by the council, by member states, that put enormous pressure on me to increase immediately – yesterday rather than tomorrow – to increase the quotas to ease the situation on consumer prices. i would also like to speak out very clearly today to try to stamp out misunderstandings which are circulating that the increase in milk quotas is to be blamed for the very weak dairy prices that we see today. the reality is that despite the 2% quota increase that took place after april this year, the production of milk has actually fallen. that is what we see now, due to the fact that an increase in quotas is a possibility for member states or for farmers to produce but it is certainly not an obligation. this shows clearly that dairy producers are reacting to market signals. the relatively small changes that we have seen in the quota system can therefore in no way explain the market volatility that we are seeing. the lower demand from consumers is probably a reaction to the high prices that we saw last year as consumers then tried or wanted to step out of the high-quality high-priced dairy products. then, of course, there is the economic climate in which we find ourselves these days. for the same reason it is important that we do not fool ourselves and think that by micro-managing the dairy market we decide for the whole sector. the conclusion must be that the quota system has not been able to deliver market stability in the market place. concerning the question of the azores, the portuguese authorities have used any opportunity to ask for increased milk quotas for the islands because of the fact that the azores seem to be extremely competitive and seem to be benefiting from the increased production. i am quite sure that the larger quotas, and the ultimate end of the quota system, will benefit the azores’ dairy sector. that will be the case, i think, even in spite of the fact that those beautiful islands are quite remote and milk has to be moved around between nine islands. to conclude, i can assure members that i will manage our dairy policy instruments in a responsible way with a view to ensuring an effective safety net for the dairy sector.
member of the commission. − you know that i am always very happy to have a dialogue and a discussion with you on the importance of the agricultural sector and also on the azores. we find ourselves in a situation today where the market is extremely difficult. this is not only the case for the azores, but is the general situation in europe, where we have to realise that prices are decreasing to a level that we would never have imagined just six months ago. i can only assure you – and i think that you believe in my ability to find the right solutions at the right time – that this is going to be the way that we will manage the system under these circumstances.
member of the commission. − firstly, i think there are various reasons for the situation of very low milk prices. perhaps the biggest reason is the fact that the russian market is of huge importance for the european union and just recently we have seen a huge devaluation taking place in the economic sector in russia, which means that prices for the russian consumer have increased dramatically. i do not know the exact figures, but the devaluation is at least 50%. the consequence has been that the possibility of selling our products in russia has been receding dramatically. there is also, as i said, the consequence of the high prices we saw in 2007, where people stepped back a little from the high price of dairy products – and obviously they have not returned. and then there is the situation today with the uncertainty in the general economic situation. ms mcguinness asked whether we think that what we did in the health check is good enough. the fact is that the health check does not start until 1 january 2010, with all the different tools available to support the different sectors. we have seen during the discussions that we have new challenges and we have reserved the modulated money for those new challenges. but these are not effective in 2009. that is why we have proposed to the european parliament, the council, and the ecofin council to spend some of the so-called unused money – eur 5 billion in total from agriculture, and for the rural development policy it is specifically eur 1.5 billion – now, in 2009. it is then in the hands of parliament and the council to see whether it is possible to spend some of this money. if you remember the list of the new challenges, the dairy sector was also mentioned. therefore, i hope that there will be an understanding in parliament as well to trigger some of this money to be used not exclusively but also on the challenges facing the dairy sector.
is it not the practice to take two supplementaries after the questioner, and did i not indicate right at the outset of the question to the commissioner that i had a supplementary question to ask? why was it not called?
with respect, your staff indicated that my request had been noted. so, if your staff were aware of it, then, by implication, you were aware of it. why were you not informed?
if i could welcome the answer given so far by the commissioner but also ask him to make sure that human rights in this field are kept in mind at all times. in other words, i am all in favour of stamping out cyber crime, but can we make sure that internet companies are not, with police authorities and the like, too heavy-handed in dealing with the public who are using the internet for their own pleasure?
the next item is the commission statement on the pharmaceutical products package.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i very much welcome the commissioner’s statement and in particular the tone in which he opened it when he was referring to patients as being the centre of this. i am just taking through this parliament a report on cross-border health, and fundamental to that is the safety of patients. if i may say so, i wish this had come sooner so that we could have completed your package, along with other health measures within this parliament. that is not going to be possible, but at least we are on the road. perhaps you could mention to at least one of your colleagues that we would also like to see something on needle-stick injuries as part of that safety package. but we are looking now at the three items that you have referred to. you have referred, rightly, to information to patients and you have dwelt on the detail of that. i believe that patients, and particularly the patients with conditions like neurodegenerative diseases, are very anxious to see this information to patients coming in in a way which is certainly not advertising but does give them confidence that what they read – whether it is on the internet, in the package or in advertising or announcements, shall we say – is bona fide and trustworthy. at the moment they cannot do that and so they are, as you say, at risk. the second one is counterfeiting. counterfeiting is one of the curses of our age. it is one thing to have a watch or designer clothing counterfeited, but it is far more serious if it is a medicine. if it is a counterfeit medicine, then patients are at risk and patients can die because of counterfeit medicines. as we have heard, the statistics – 2.5 million packages a year seized at eu borders – have greatly increased over the previous two years, from 2005-2007, and the frightening thing is that it is increasingly within pharmacies and it is not just the internet packages. thirdly, you referred to pharmacovigilance. we reckon that 5% of all hospital admissions are the result of adverse drug reactions and that adverse drug reactions cause a fifth of the unnecessary deaths in hospitals. so it is vitally important that we have a simplified, more reliable package on pharmacovigilance too. if we get these in place, then i believe my report and the safety of patients can go hand in hand, and that must be at the top of our agenda tonight, during the rest of this parliament and in the parliament that is to come at the end of the summer.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by carl schlyter, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 76/769/eec as regards restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (dichloromethane) (com(2008)0080 – c6-0068/2008 – 2008/0033(cod)) (a6-0341/2008).
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur carl schlyter, and the shadow rapporteurs, on the very thorough and professional work that they have done on this dossier. it is a rare pleasure for me these days to be able to participate in debates arising from committee work and particularly at this time of day, or should i say at this time of night. i have not had the privilege to participate in the debates in committee other than on one occasion when i wished to ensure that my colleagues understood the importance of voting to support the rapporteur’s proposals. but this is an important issue, indeed an issue of life or death, and one that for me is doubly important because i have a particular constituency interest in it. dichloromethanes, as we have heard, are substances with a uniquely hazardous profile. they are so volatile that inhalation, even just the casual smell of them, is above all recognised health limits. they are carcinogenic and they cause neurotic effects with nerve damage. under normal temperatures their use causes them to evaporate to dangerous levels. to work safely with dichloromethanes one needs an air-proof suit at a cost of about eur 2 000, and to protect one’s skin, gloves at a cost of eur 25 or eur 30, which need to be replaced every two or three hours. of course nobody does this, even if they know of the harmful nature of the substance. there is no effective way to ensure the safe use of dichloromethanes for the public. and, because they are so toxic, the rapporteur and the committee wanted to ban them, even for professional use, in order to prevent fatalities. over the last eight years the commission has on record some 18 fatalities from the use of these products and some 56 non-fatal injuries. i am sure that in reality there have been more. but there has been an industrial lobby which has created a blocking minority in council, and for that reason the rapporteur and the committee reluctantly agreed to allow the member states a derogation for professional use. however, we have achieved not only strict protection for workers using them professionally, but also a commitment to control and inspection by the member states. a complete ban on these products already exists in sweden, denmark and germany, and i hope no member state will ask for such a derogation. industrial use is a different matter. these products can be used safely industrially in the right conditions. some members have argued that they should be allowed to be used for the protection of cultural heritage, for the removal of paint from old monuments without damaging. but experts have suggested this would not be a good idea, and therefore my group will not be supporting any amendments tabled in that direction. i mentioned that i have a constituency interest in this. i have been in correspondence with commissioner verheugen for seven years now on this issue. why? because i have in my constituency a company called eco solutions, which has developed a perfectly safe alternative to dichloromethanes. it is a water-based alternative. it has the same effect even if the process takes a little longer. i am sorry to say that the only member state lobbying hard for the retention of dichloromethane use was the united kingdom, which also produces in industrial quantities many such substances. it took me four years’ work with commissioner verheugen to get the commission’s expert committee even to look at the existence of this safer water-based alternative, and it has taken three years to get that water-based alternative recognised as an effective and useable technology. but i am pleased to say that, as with all the best stories, this one has a happy ending. dichloromethanes will come off the market for non-industrial use. my constituents will become richer with their new technology, and everybody will live happily ever after thanks to the excellent work of carl schlyter and his colleagues on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
madam president, i agree with the very last phrase that the commissioner used, that we can welcome this compromise and, on that basis, i congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on bringing this together. it has been a hard road to get to this. originally the commission came forward with a proposal to ban this substance for individual use – not for professional use – and the rapporteur brought forward these proposals to extend this to professional use. and so we listened to the evidence of our constituents, as graham watson has done. he has talked about industrial lobbies. he has also referred to an industrial lobby in his constituency, which successfully persuaded him of the alternative. we know that 90% of paint strippers use dcm, so we had to look at the balance of this. none of us wants to go over the top in our descriptions of the dangers. sometimes when i was listening this evening to the hazards of this substance, i wondered why we are satisfied that industrial workers should be subjected to it but not allow professionals to use the substance, within the rules and under strict guidance; and all the clothing that graham watson is going to issue to people in the future – these white suits, or whatever they are, a space-age parliamentary benefit – will be coming. i think that this, among many other substances, poses a high risk. it is potentially hazardous. there is evidence that there have been accidents and people have been hurt. it is probably right that we take stronger action than has been taken in the past. that is why i accept and genuinely welcome the compromise that is being sought. it leaves the door open to member states that wish to, and believe it is right to, continue under the tight rules that have been laid down to allow professionals – and only professionals – to use this in addition to industrial use. but, commissioner, you now have a responsibility to go back and do the research on the alternatives. look at the alternatives that are available: nmp has been available for 11 years, but only now is found to be reprotoxic; there are flammable solvents that can cause glue-sniffing problems; there are date-rape drug substances that are seen as safe alternatives; there is dbe, about which not much is known; and there are the more basic blowlamps and sanding methods that can be used, although dust and other problems arise there. so let us now go back and thoroughly investigate the alternatives so that we really can be sure that we are providing a safer alternative for our constituents. if we find that some of the alternatives are no less dangerous, then i am sure the commissioner or his successors will be back to tell us so and to bring forward a proposal – and if they do not i am sure carl schlyter will.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by ilda figueiredo, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interests of the european community, the work in fishing convention, 2007, of the international labour organisation (convention 188) (com(2008)0320 – c6-0218/2008 – 2008/0107(cns)) (a6-0423/2008).
the debate closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on behalf of my group i welcome the president-in-office. we wish you success, president-in-office. a great czech once said: ‘i am no longer a rookie: goals are expected of me; scoring is my job.’ well, what was true for milan baroš is also true for you and your ministers. your work programme outlines those goals. on the economy, you have said that barriers to the market – internal and external – must come down, and that europe’s answer to recession must not be keynesian spending alone, but that we must strive for fairer competition, trade liberalisation, and freer movement of people and goods across national boundaries. these are hard times for europe’s citizens. your recipe will be contested, but not by liberals and democrats. for the experience of the czech republic – and so many others – proves the power of markets in lifting people out of poverty. on energy, you are right to pursue the aims of the strategic energy review, but the review and our climate change targets should not be a ceiling to our ambitions, rather a springboard to greater and greener heights, to force the pace on europe’s switch from fossil fuels to renewables and put an end to our umbilical energy dependence. currently, our monitors are blocked from ukrainian dispatch centres. russia claims it cannot export gas because ukraine will not transport it, and ukraine claims it has no gas to export because the russians have switched the transit route. meanwhile, industry across eastern and central europe is suffering, some people are freezing in their homes, and there are moves to reopen nuclear reactors condemned as unsafe by our union. that is not a functioning energy market. it is the plot of a marx brothers’ film: a night in the cold – or, rather, twelve nights and counting. so stop talking about the internal market in energy and the development of renewals: use your presidency’s powers to mobilise the necessary investment. on the eu in the world, we welcome your presidency’s ambitions. europe should play a leading role in resolving conflicts, supporting development and promoting human rights. but, if you truly seek to widen the eu’s capacity to act, why have you delayed yet again ratification of the lisbon treaty? if you want to prevent weapons proliferation, why are you building a ballistic missile defence system on european soil? (applause)and if you want peace in the middle east, why allow europe to be ridiculed by so many different peace missions? as events unfold in gaza, it becomes harder for many of us to remain detached. this house will never unite around a common position if we seek to apportion blame precisely, but fault can be found on both sides, violence denounced, and an immediate ceasefire sought. there is no excuse for hamas rocket attacks, but nor for the use of dense inert metal explosives to maim civilians. the tag line for your presidency is ‘europe without borders’. perhaps its author had in mind that old czech proverb: ‘protect yourself not by fences but by your friends’. president-in-office, we, your fellow europeans, are your friends. your country’s president compared the european union to the soviet union. well, we do not bug private discussions, as he did to members of this house. he who wishes to remain on the margin is free to do so. but this is a union of friends – friends, equals and partners. your presidency’s aims are bold. we support them. stick to them, and we will stick by you. (applause)
madam president, i welcome prime minister topolánek to the european parliament and i know from past discussions that europe is in very good hands for the next six months. it is a historic moment for the czech republic and one to which you bring your customary political skill. the czech presidency programme has set some important priorities: the three ‘e’s of energy, economic improvement, and europe’s role in the world. in the early days of your presidency you have indeed been faced with substantial challenges. you have been to moscow and kiev and you are working hard to get a deal to restore the flow of natural gas to european countries. you have displayed great diplomatic skills so far working with russia and ukraine, but it is vital that the russian government understands that holding nations to ransom is no way to conduct business in the modern world. you have led the way for the eu so far, and i congratulate you, and also in your work to resolve the current crisis in the middle east to bring about a credible ceasefire that will enable peace talks to resume. the economic crisis remains high on your agenda. you are supporting sensible measures to ensure the economic slowdown is tackled. you have been clear about the importance of europe and the member states not imposing new and heavy-handed regulation at european or national level. you have spoken of mobilising those countries which share your liberal economic outlook to oppose protectionism at this time. what we must do is ensure that any regulatory changes are proportionate and sensible. finally, in a week’s time there will be a new us president in the white house. i know we can rely on you, prime minister, to establish a good working relationship with president-elect obama. i know you share my view that the future of the transatlantic alliance is vital to our security and our prosperity. i wish you every success. to quote winston churchill in his last great speech in the house of commons: ‘never flinch; never weary; never despair’. good luck.
madam president, i should like to ask the president-in-office four questions. mr president-in-office, if, as you said, you find the treaty of lisbon worse than the treaty of nice, why did you sign it? secondly, will you please confirm that the czech republic will not be tempted to follow the irish example and seek to pull apart the lisbon package? thirdly, do you not see a contradiction in coming here and praising the legitimacy of the parliament but declining to support the treaty which so greatly increases its powers? fourthly, can the czech presidency really have authority unless and until the czech republic ratifies the treaty?
madam president, i was interested that the czech president-in-office said that the opposition is trying to torpedo the czech presidency because, from where i sit, the czech president is doing a very good job all on his own of torpedoing the czech presidency. i notice the czech presidency states that it is doing all it can to enlarge the european union and to admit croatia. if it is doing all it can, why can it not ratify the lisbon treaty? after all, the czech presidency agreed to it and, therefore, should fulfil its obligations. we must be honest: it is not a great start to a presidency. the czech president describes the climate change package as a silly luxury. the czech finance minister describes the economic recovery plan as being reminiscent of the communist era. we have a so-called work of art – which has given offence to everybody, but particularly the bulgarians – and the first statement on the gaza crisis had to be withdrawn several hours later. what we need at the moment is leadership, and what i have seen so far has taught me that the sooner we get a full-time president of the council the better, because it is only coherent european action that will deliver security to europe, will deliver world influence and deliver economic recovery. so let us have some leadership. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, i should like to say to the president-in-office that his country is symbolised for me by two men: franz kafka and jan palach. both symbolise the struggle for freedom and for democracy and both showed the frustration, the pain and the sacrifice that can sometimes come in that struggle. for that reason i think, mr president-in-office, you will have a particular insight into the struggle in gaza and you will understand the pain and the frustration of the people of gaza and the people of israel. i hope you will, therefore, throw everything into stopping the slaughter that is going on there. you will also be able to reach out to the american president on the issues of climate change and bring him into the equation for copenhagen. at home you will have the chance to make your mark in the remaining legislative proposals of this parliament – and i highlight the new opportunities for citizens that will flow from cross-border health, an item i know is on your agenda. you mentioned the free movement of knowledge. nowhere is that more important than in medical science, and that goes, too, for mental health. i have had the privilege of supporting some of the work for reform on mental health in the czech republic. i know you will want to further those reforms not just in your country but throughout europe. i would like you to cast your mind back to june when we set out the mental health pact for the european union. it is not on your list at the moment, but i hope you will ensure that it is on your agenda as an item to be furthered because, above all, our task – your task – is to benefit those people in our community who are vulnerable and need our support. i know you will do your best in that, and i wish you well in all your endeavours. (applause)
in writing. – some of us are very much looking forward to being addressed by president klaus in february. how refreshing it will be to hear someone who has the intelligence and honesty to doubt the ideological orthodoxies of ever-closer european union and climate change. president klaus has been quite right to compare the european union to the old soviet union. my friend, the heroic russian dissident, vladimir bukovsky says of the european union, ‘i have lived in your future and it doesn’t work.’ mr bukovsky is quite right, the eu is a form of soft communism. we can only hope that the czech presidency will be a little more sceptical of the great european project than some previous presidencies. one thing that the czechs can do is to delay ratification of the lisbon treaty until after the second irish referendum. then when the irish vote ‘no’ again to the failed constitution the czechs can acknowledge the democratic decision of the only eu nation allowed a referendum and stop the treaty in its tracks by withholding their ratification. let’s hope that president klaus is the man to do that.
mr president, i agree with the position that mr speroni has put forward. i recognise the difficulty you are in, but i would suggest that he is right. the screens do record every vote. to read out every amendment result would be very time-consuming – especially with a vote like we have today. i would suggest that you ask the bureau to remit it to the relevant committee, and we will consider it for a future voting session – if that is acceptable to the house. (applause)
mr president, according to my voting list it appears that paragraph 36 was withdrawn, so i wonder whether we should have voted on that at all.
mr president, i am opposed to this report because of the threat which i perceive it poses to governments and firms that have invested hugely in defence r&d and which now find themselves robbed of return through the development and production phase. under this proposed directive, procurement contracts are now required to be opened up to european competition, leaving a defence company – even a country – with no means of protecting its international property rights and jobs. given that several military defence companies in the united kingdom have leading-edge r&d, the threat of this report is a major concern. my unease is heightened by the recognition that a driving motivation in this report is to bolster eu integration and the european security and defence policy, rather than prioritising tangible economic benefit.
mr president, a society consumed by rights is a ‘give-me, give-me’ society which has lost its balance. it is this which drives the report’s demand for equality between regularly married couples and homosexual relationships. the natural order is man and woman. we pervert it when we demand equality for its very antithesis. unfashionable as it may be, i unashamedly declare that the unnatural partnership between same-sex couples is not something to which i, as a legislator, wish to consent. are my rights to espouse that position any less than those of the people who demand the opposite? in view of the intolerant climate in which part of this debate was held, it would seem so. i disagree with this aspect of this report. if that subjects me to ridicule then so be it. i would rather stand for what i think is right than to applaud that which is wrong.
mr president, there is much in the catania report that i take issue with. firstly, i do not accept that it is the business of the european union to bestow any rights whatsoever on us – in fact, history teaches us that the european union has done precisely the opposite. i also do not accept that the charter of fundamental rights – which is a basic political document, concocted as part of the failed european constitution – should be incorporated into european law, and particularly not incorporated into british law. i am very much opposed to the charter of fundamental rights. i reject the absolutist approach to human rights. i would say that i am not opposed in principle to the recognition of same-sex partnerships but, again, this is not a matter for the european union: this is a matter for the parliaments of individual member states to determine on their territory. given that fundamental list of objections, i voted against this report.
mr president, the experience of many ages teaches us that paper rights on their own are no adequate guarantors of civic freedoms. the rights that are spelt out in the european union’s charter of fundamental rights and freedoms are not so very different from those adumbrated in the constitutions of, say, east germany or the ussr, but as the citizens of those unhappy polities discovered, paper rights in themselves are worthless in the absence of adequate mechanisms of parliamentary government. there is no crisis of human rights in the european union, but there is a crisis of democratic legitimacy. allow me to suggest that one way to ameliorate that crisis would be to keep faith with our voters and put the treaty of lisbon, as we promised, to a series of referendums. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, the uk independence party is opposed to racism, female genital mutilation, the criminalisation of homosexuality and prejudice against foreigners, wherever in the world that may occur. however, the british enjoy perfectly good human rights under our own law and we do not need the protection of the european union. the eu is undemocratic and anti-democratic and it is not therefore a suitable guardian of anybody’s human rights. we would also like to remind parliament that family law is a member state competence and is not an area of eu jurisdiction. the issue of whether drug abusers should face criminal charges is a matter for member state law and the eu should not seek to undermine and replace the judicial systems of member states. therefore the uk independence party meps voted against this report.
mr president, when it comes to reports like these, i often talk to different voluntary and community groups from within my constituency, where you can gain a great deal of knowledge from other people’s experiences and contacts. i also regularly try to gauge the opinion of other meps across the political spectrum and from different countries, to try and understand the views and problems experienced by others. i fully concur with the sentiments expressed by my colleagues, mr hannan and mr callanan. however, on issues such as the ones contained in this report, i like to speak to members like mr allister, who, whilst not from my political party, is a hard-working and pragmatic member in this place; his counsel is often wise and he is someone with whom i know i can agree to disagree in a civilised way – as i do on what he just said. with reports like these – where you can cherry-pick the many different issues to determine how you vote on them – it becomes impossible to find a dividing line as to whether you should vote for or against, and so i copped out – i abstained. i apologise.
mr president, thank you for your very kind words. i hope to remember them evermore. when we talk about transparency and access to eu documents, it is something that we can all agree on across the chamber. after all, we are only here because of the taxpayers who voted us into office and the taxpayers who fund these institutions and fund our work. but let us be absolutely clear about this. when we talk about transparency of documents and access to documents, let us make sure that the taxpayer has access to those documents that they really want to have access to. recently, group leaders from parliament went to visit the head of state of a democratic country, the czech republic. the group leaders, who were representing parliament, as far as we understand, insulted the president of that country. all that a number of citizens have been asking for is for those minutes from that meeting to be published. so let us be transparent, let us be clear and let us have respect for those who hold a different view to those who sit in this parliament.
in writing. − the conservative delegation has consistently supported efforts to open markets and encourage cross-border trade between member states of the eu. we welcome opportunities for british industry to have access to defence equipment markets that might hitherto have been closed to outside competition. however, we regret that such positive, practical aspects are secondary to the eu’s political motive to create an integrated european defence industrial base, and to strengthen the european security and defence policy, to which our opposition has been consistent. we have particular concerns about the negative consequences of insisting that, in spite of investment by national governments and firms in defence r&d, there should then be open competition for subsequent production contracts. this will remove the ability to recoup r&d investment and offer no means of protecting intellectual property, jobs or export opportunities. we are also concerned that an inward-looking european approach will be detrimental to our very necessary and fruitful defence industrial relationships with other countries – especially the us, but also japan, israel and other countries. for all these reasons the conservative delegation abstained on the report.
in writing. − conservatives recall their long-held view that the charter of fundamental rights should not be justiciable. in this context we believe that many of the issues dealt with by this report are properly in the purview of member states and not matters on which the eu should try to impose a policy. the report also contains a number of issues which are matters of individual conscience, for example, the implicit recommendation on euthanasia and the decriminalisation of hard drugs. for these reasons, we are unable to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − ukip is opposed to female genital mutilation, homophobia, racism and xenophobia. however we are also against eu control of fundamental rights. the uk already has perfectly good laws and safeguards on fundamental rights. the eu is not democratic and is therefore not a suitable guardian of people's rights. moreover, family law is a member state competence and not an area of eu jurisdiction. the issue of whether drug abusers should face criminal charges is a matter for member state law and the eu should not be seeking to pervert the course of justice.
in writing. − i supported the catania report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2004-2008). in particular, i voted in favour of paragraph 32, which calls for the ruling by the european court on the people’s mujahedin organisation of iran (pmoi) to be respected. this ruling demanded that the pmoi should be taken off the eu terror list. i hold no particular brief for this organisation. a long time ago, i stopped signing their declarations regarding the situation in iran, which i had more difficulty finding credible, particularly after participating in a foreign affairs committee delegation to teheran when i could see for myself the emerging reformist opposition to the hardline fundamentalist regime in iran. nevertheless, i do not have to support the organisation to deplore the failure to implement the court’s view that the pmoi’s action gives no reason to include, or continue to include, them on the terror list thus visiting on them all the repressive consequences that follow.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution, which maps out and summarises the most important concerns on the state of fundamental rights within the union, and the recommendations it contains on how to improve human rights within member states.
in writing. − i was pleased to see the european parliament support the removal of the pmoi from the list of terrorist organisations. twenty thousand people in iran who oppose the regime have been killed. as long as the pmoi remains on the terrorist list, more people will be killed in iran for simply voicing opposition to the regime. the eu must follow the uk’s lead and remove the pmoi from the terrorist list.
in writing. − i would like this report to have looked more closely at the situation of orphans and disabled children in institutional care in romania and bulgaria, the newest eu member states. there was a great deal of concern before those countries joined the eu about the standards of care for institutionalised orphans and disabled children. perhaps the next such report could go into more detail on this matter. more generally, i made my thoughts on this report known in the debate last month. i am worried that our culture of human rights has become infected by absolutism and that, in fact, by pandering to the rights of criminals and terrorists we are undermining the rights of everyone else. specifically, i believe that matters concerning abortion and contraception are not matters for the european union, but should be subject to appropriate legislation at the level of the member states. also, i object to the call for the charter of fundamental rights to override the law of the united kingdom, which has negotiated an exemption from its provisions. i therefore voted to abstain on this report.
in writing. − i abstained on the roll-call vote on paragraph 62 because i believe that every country – which the eu is not – should ensure that legislation on female genital mutilation is locally originated and applied. an international agreement would be more appropriate and far-sighted. as it is, the eu has no current competence in health matters, nor should it seek them. i also abstained on the vote on paragraph 72 because i am concerned about the implications on free speech. although to be deplored, discriminatory comments do not necessarily fuel ‘hatred and violence’. that we are asked to agree to this will mean that those who choose can use this as evidence of such. my decision to abstain on amendment 54 is based upon opposing the eu’s free movement of people and the principle of mutual recognition, and not in any way a reflection on my views regarding same-sex partnerships, which i agree should enjoy the same rights as others.
in writing. − president, i was very pleased to vote for the andrikiene report on the united nations human rights council since i welcome the fact that this agency has far greater credibility than its predecessor, the un commission on human rights. the commission was widely discredited due to several of its member countries having very dubious human rights records. the regular scrutiny of the rights records of member states is a key component to the council's greater standing. this will be particularly important in the next round of scrutiny, which will involve russia, cuba, saudi arabia and china. welcome, too, are the provisions in the report which aim to assess coordination on these issues between eu member states. it is vital that the eu, as an organisation that puts human rights at the heart of its mission, works with multinational co-partners such as the un with similar ideals to realise greater cooperation. cooperation is vital to ensure that human rights are no longer sidelined as a foreign policy objective for commercial or strategic reasons.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues support the work of the un and the un human rights council. we accept that further reform of the council is required to ensure that human rights around the world are improved. we agree that eu member states work towards agreeing positions in the council but underline the importance of each of them safeguarding their own national interests and positions. our support for this report does not imply support for the paragraph in the report (paragraph 56) which calls for the un resolution on a death penalty moratorium to be implemented. the death penalty is a matter of conscience for each conservative mep.
mr president, i abhor terrorism. i repudiate the propaganda of terrorism. maybe coming from northern ireland heightens my awareness, so when i hear hamas bleat because of necessary retaliatory action against its years of indiscriminate raining of rockets upon innocent citizens in israel, then i am unimpressed because i know that hamas, like the ira in my country, are masters of the twin arts of terrorism and propaganda. the situation is demonstrably clear. israel accepts a two-state solution. hamas cannot even abide the right of israel to exist and thus unleashes endless relentless terrorist attacks upon its territory. and when, after much forbearance, israel hits back, they cry victim. sorry: they are the perpetrators and if they want peace the answer lies in their own hands. stop shelling israel.
mr president, a friend who knows i was in gaza just three days ago challenges me. ‘have you never seen pictures of five-year-old jewish children facing nazi rifles with their arms above their heads?’ she writes. ‘they break your heart.’ and her words highlight why we make allowances for israel that we would not make for any other country. they do not, however, explain why a people that suffered so much in the 20th century should now inflict so much suffering on another people in this one. israel has turned gaza into hell: the ground is shaking with explosions, even during a ceasefire; there are donkey carts on the street and f-16s in the sky, 21st-century killing machines just dropping bombs; 300 children are dead already, hundreds more torn apart limb by limb. this is not a proportionate response of a civilised power. it is evil. it is evil. yes, the hamas rockets must stop. i have said so to hamas representatives in gaza myself before now, but let us have no more sanctimonious talk from israeli officials about the need to fight terrorism, because palestinians being bombed could name terrorists and they would name olmert, livni and barak. we have some responsibility for israel’s actions. on no occasion in the past, on no occasion i can think of, has the european union ever backed up its criticism of the treatment of palestinians by the israelis with any kind of action. we give a green light to israel to proceed as it would wish and we have compounded that failure by ignoring the lessons of history. you cannot make peace without talking to your enemies, yet we refuse to talk to the elected representatives of the palestinian people. now we are completing negotiations with israel on an enhanced cooperation agreement. we do not plan to condemn israel: we intend to reward it. those who want peace in the middle east, those who want to see justice for both sides, must recognise that it is time to think again.
mr president, the horrific events in gaza during the past two weeks have brought international condemnation against israel. we have witnessed colleagues during this debate today lining up to see who could express the strongest outrage against the jewish state. however, for one country in the middle east, this was exactly the outcome it had sought: iran has supplied missiles, munitions and other sophisticated weaponry to hamas for years. it has provided money and training for hamas fighters. its objective was to provoke israel into a ground war and the bloody result, with gruesome photos of dead children on tv screens and in newspapers around the world, is the best possible recruiting sergeant for fundamentalist islam and the iranian mullahs’ vision of a global islamist movement united against the west. the fascist regime in tehran is the main sponsor of war and terror in the middle east, and the tragic outcome is exactly what tehran wanted. it distracts domestic attention in iran from the economic crisis caused by the collapse in the price of oil, and it distracts international attention from the mullahs’ rush to produce a nuclear weapon. iran’s foreign policy objective is to become the dominant regional power in the middle east. it wants to unite the islamic world in submission to its own austere and disturbing vision of a totalitarian islamic brotherhood, where human rights, women’s rights and freedom of speech are ground into the dust, and, shamefully, the west has done nothing to confront or expose iranian aggression. faced with mounting evidence of the mullahs’ sponsorship of terror, the west has gone out of its way to appease tehran, even agreeing to its primary demand of disabling the main iranian opposition movement, the people’s mujahedin of iran, by placing it on the eu terror list. this must stop.
mr president, firstly, let us be clear that this parliament will today support the un security council resolution 1860. it should be implemented without delay. as one of the meps here who has been in gaza through the blockade, a ceasefire and a withdrawal are not enough. of course we want the rockets to stop and the terrorists to stop their movements, but we must see a ceasefire and an end to the blockade so that the people of gaza can begin to live their lives. this is an issue of respect for international humanitarian law. human rights watch and islamic relief have told me that the three-hour daily pause is simply woefully inadequate to get in and to distribute aid. it is an issue of proportionality. save the children say that the killing of 139 children since the conflict began, with 1 271 injured, cannot be justified as self-defence. i welcome the statement today by the eu envoy in israel, ramiro cibrian-uzal, who said that the eu and israel have put negotiations on the upgrading of relations ‘on hold’ at this time for these reasons. so they should.
mr president, i wish to begin by expressing my deepest sympathy for all the innocent people, both in israel and in gaza, who have suffered in recent weeks and months as conflict rages. but we need to take care that our natural humanity, our very justified concerns, do not distort our view of the true nature of the situation that we are dealing with. in gaza, hamas has created a terrorist fiefdom: it tolerates no opposition to its views, it has murdered those palestinians who opposed it, it has split the palestine authority, it refused to stop terror attacks on israeli civilians, it refused to recognise the right of israel to exist, it refused to acknowledge the peace agreements previously negotiated. i recall the words of hanan ashrawi three years ago, when i was monitoring the palestinian elections. she foresaw the imposition of rule by the forces of darkness – how right she was! we should not be surprised that a hamas mp should take pride in stating that death was an ‘industry’ for the palestinian people. he was referring to the use of suicide bombers and the deliberate use of civilian human shields to protect potential military targets. it is, of course, a direct contravention of international humanitarian law to use civilians in this way. faced with such an intractable, callous and hateful enemy, what do we expect israel to do while its citizens are constantly subjected to terror attacks? the international community took little notice. when israel took non-violent action, such as imposing blockades or cutting electricity, it was castigated. now that it has taken military action in reaction to hamas provocation, it feels the weight of international disapproval. the sad reality is that the palestinian people have been atrociously served over many years by those who have control over palestine authority areas, by the international community, which has tolerated extremism and corruption, and by the arab world, which has done nothing practical over many decades to improve their lives or prospects. we need a marshall plan for the middle east. it is not just peacekeepers that the palestinians need but a decent civil administration, free from corruption. the civil administration needs to be put under international control but first of all the terrorist lifeline – weapons, monies and political indulgence – must be cut.
mr president, israel states it is exercising its right to self-defence. in that case, the rudiments of the just war principles, including proportionality, must be adhered to. the fact that israel is ignoring this is patently clear, and for us to ignore this fact is patently wrong. the use of phosphorus on civilians with the claim of civilisation is not compatible. clearly, the eu alone cannot resolve this. but there is a white elephant in the room. we need the resolve of the usa. their disappointing response has been imbalanced and unjust. the timing of these actions by israel has been strategically calculated, but, mr obama, 20 january is fast approaching. the world is waiting and the eu is a willing partner! will you restore those values we share with you or will you allow such injustice to prevail – yet again? will you work with us to provide protection for all concerned? the palestinians ask you – how can it be right that your country asks for humanitarian aid on the ground, but remains silent when there are only bombs from the skies? colleagues wanting to break hamas with military means alone: go and see gaza and the west bank. reawaken your basic humanity and you will see why hamas gains strength. this is not the way to help israel or palestinians. an immediate ceasefire is only a necessary start.
mr president, it is not just the members of this house who have been outraged by developments in gaza. the european public have also been outraged by the suffering of the people in gaza and the israeli blockade for far too long. added to this are the constant attacks and the terrifying israeli military assaults on innocent civilians, especially women and children. the calls by the world community for an immediate ceasefire are falling on deaf ears. palestinians need urgent access to food, medical aid and security. israel must, at the very least, respect the principles of international law. unless it does so, israel should lose any remaining support it has from the international community. it is unfortunate that the un’s resolution has been sidelined. it is also regrettable that the eu still needs to find a role. perhaps it can do so if it takes stronger measures than it has done so far. it is not enough just to put the upgrading of the relationship on ice. we have leverage. we are a major trading partner. we are a major funder in that region. so we are able to exercise that role.
mr president, i was elected to this house 25 years ago. this is probably the most important debate in which i have taken part. madam commissioner, i hope you listened very carefully to the foreign affairs committee last night and to this parliament today. i hope you may reply in your debate to say, unlike president-in-office schwarzenberg, that there is moral power that the european union may exert on the aggressor on this particular occasion. the israeli people are a just and honourable people who have suffered miserably throughout the centuries in this continent. they will understand your recommendation to the council of ministers now that the eu should withdraw any contact with the israeli authorities until they stop the bombing.
a uachtaráin, is mian liom tacú leo siúd atá ag cáineadh na n-ionsaithe agus mo dhlúthpháirtíocht a léiriú le muintir gaza. deir an taire schwarzenburg nach féidir leis an aontas eorpach mórán a dhéanamh. ba chóir don aontas eorpach uasghrádú caidrimh le hiosrael a thréigean agus ba chóir na comhaontuithe atá i bhfeidhm faoi láthair a chur ar ceal go dtí go gcomhlíonann iosrael a dhualgais faoi dhlí idirnáisiúnta. fiú roimh na hionsaithe mímhorálta ar na mallaibh chonaiceamar blianta de phionós comhchoiteann ar mhuintir na palaistíne. is ábhar uafáis ar fad é scála agus cineál na n-ionsaithe ar gaza déanta ag arm nua-aimseartha in éadan daoine faoi léigear atá lag cheana féin mar gheall ar leithlis agus imshuí. tá an locht a cuireadh ar na daoine céanna úd contráilte – is gá dúinn bheith soiléir agus sinn á rá gurb iad na híospartaigh is mó ansin ná daoine, muintir neamhchiontacha gaza.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i quote from a speech made on this subject by my colleague, godfrey bloom, on 25 october 2006: ‘the thought, the idea or the concept that the united kingdom’s energy supplies could possibly be controlled by some sort of arrangement with a gangster like putin is absolutely ludicrous. it is absolute madness to expect anything from a piece of paper signed by putin. the man is a gangster’. mr putin is now doing what any competent gangster would do – withdraw supply and force the price up. europe will face two options: be prepared to pay much, much more for a precarious gas supply from russia, or find alternative suppliers, if that is possible. the uk must ensure its dwindling gas supplies are kept as a national resource and not allow them to become an eu common resource. we must also embark on a programme of building new nuclear power stations.
mr president, it is almost uncanny how history has repeated itself over the interruption of gas supplies through ukraine at this time of year. yet we should not be surprised, for when better to catch people’s attention, especially during a cold spell? it is not difficult to figure out the russia agenda in all this, but i was particularly struck by the idea floated in the press that gazprom urgently needs to make a deal based on higher gas prices, linked to last year’s oil price high, before those gas prices come down following the oil price fall. be that as it may, the implications remain the same as three years ago. eu member states are at risk of over-dependence on gas imports from one dominant supplier. it is no longer good enough to say that we need russian gas and they need our hard currency, so the trade is safe. we need to take action to safeguard security of supply. member states must bite the bullet and be prepared to pay for adequate gas storage facilities and stocks. agreeing a level of how many days’ supply constitutes a reasonable reserve would be a good start. diversifying supplies is another obvious step to take and the construction of lng terminals around europe is a good example. looking at the nord stream and nabucco pipeline projects in a more favourable light seems logical. we need to redouble efforts to improve efficiency and increase conservation of energy in electricity consumption – both in industrial use and domestic consumption. there are huge savings to be achieved. above all, we need to rebalance our energy mix and to do so with the twin objectives of security of supply and climate change policy. by increasing the share of electricity from renewables, nuclear energy and clean coal technology, we can do both, but each of these options takes time to deliver and, in the mean time, we must tackle improving energy efficiency with urgency and imagination.
mr president, russia’s use of interrupting gas flow as a diplomatic weapon has once again proved why we need a common eu external energy security policy by intergovernmental cooperation. such a policy has the obvious benefit of minimising our exposure to russian strong-arm tactics by encouraging alternative sources such as lng, and new gas pipelines such as nabucco and the trans-saharan route, and building an integrated eu electricity grid. however, it will also provide an impetus to the green agenda by encouraging renewable energy and energy efficiency and a renaissance of nuclear energy. i support slovakia’s emergency demand to the commission to reopen their closed bohunice reactor, which will also help to address climate change. there is no doubt in my mind that russia is bullying ukraine and trying to destabilise the government by even implicating the united states now in this whole debacle, ahead of the presidential election in ukraine next year, and also jeopardising ukraine’s euro-atlantic aspirations. however, the eu has been dragged into this row as a collateral victim of the kremlin’s gas diplomacy. i cannot help feeling that russia’s action was timed to coincide with the start of the czech presidency, although prime minister and council president-in-office topolánek has shown great skill in handling this emergency. ukraine is possibly guilty as charged of siphoning off some russian gas, but it is perhaps understandable in the context of the bilateral arrangements still unresolved between these two countries. ukraine is currently obliged to pay an intermediary company an extra usd 500 million a year. given that ukraine’s gas debt to russia is usd 2.4 billion, the debt could have been wiped off in about five years by scrapping this payment, which, allegedly, according to the deputy prime minister of ukraine, ends up in the pockets of corrupt politicians. we need to resist any attempt to drive a wedge between ukraine and its future with the west, and in particular its future as a full member of the european union. the best way to ensure that russia can no longer bully or put pressure on ukraine, or even provoke the eu into bullying ukraine to settle, is to champion a common eu external energy security policy which will show solidarity between the member states at times of crisis and energy shortage.
mr president, i draw three fairly obvious conclusions from the impasse with russia and ukraine. firstly we must reduce dependency on gas, more and more of which will have to be imported. this means increasing our commitment to indigenous energy, including especially renewables and nuclear power. secondly, we must improve eu solidarity with mutual support between the member states for electricity, gas and oil supplies. this implies much improved and extended grids and pipelines. why should bulgaria have no gas, while romania on the other bank of the danube has gas? why does slovakia have no gas while neighbours, austria, poland and the czech republic do? these gaps in the gas grid must be closed, urgently. what is the timing for this, commissioner piebalgs? thirdly, we must diversify our sources of supply and our storage facilities for gas and oil. why are we not making fuller use of the depleted southern north sea gas fields for storage? we must greatly expand our liquefied gas infrastructure and develop pipeline systems from alternative sources and through alternative routings. we need better and more connections with norway, with north africa and west africa, with the caspian and caucasus, with the levant and gulf states in the middle east. in conclusion, i therefore ask the commission and council if they are promoting renewables and nuclear urgently enough, investing sufficiently in the construction of pipelines and lng terminals and in developing the political relationships which will ensure continuity and diversity of supply. we clearly cannot depend on russia or the ukraine to anything like the present extent. we must put our own european interests first and without delay.
madam president, this crisis highlights the importance of making the eu more energy-independent, but, while we are discussing energy supply, we must not forget the fundamental importance of also controlling energy demand. we have a 20%-by-2020 eu energy efficiency improvement target and a number of pieces of legislation focussed on energy saving. these energy efficiency actions will not only help to tackle climate change and fuel poverty: they will also very significantly improve europe’s energy security. there is of course a good reason why the commission’s action plan on energy efficiency has an international element to it and recognises the importance of encouraging energy efficiency improvements in countries outside europe, not least countries supplying and transiting energy to europe. the fact is, if they use less, we are likely to get more. that is important above and beyond the immediate political side to this crisis.
madam president, i am glad to see mr vondra back. i thank him for explaining the gravity of the situation, but when is the council going to learn that until the eu speaks with one voice on energy issues, in particular in relation to russia and the ukraine, we are going to be in a weak position? i am going to give you an example where the council does not do that. we shall shortly be starting negotiations on the second reading of the energy liberalisation package. the commission came up with a very carefully crafted position on third countries investing in the eu, suggesting that the commission speak on behalf of the eu on these issues. what have you in the council done? you have retreated to national positions and said, no – we member states we want the final say, not the commission. it is this divide-and-rule, the oldest trick in the book, which you and your fellow colleagues have fallen for. until you understand that pooling your powers to gain more leverage internationally is the way to go, we will always be in a position where we are vulnerable. you must answer the european citizens as to why they are now sitting in the cold. you have to change your position on this line. will you do so?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday 15 january 2009). written statements (rule 142)
the next item is question time (b6-0001/2009). the following questions are addressed to the council.
question no 1 by milan horáček (h-0968/08) subject: justice in russia how does the council presidency view the justice system in russia, in particular the imprisonment of opposition politicians – for example platon lebedev and mikhail khodorkovsky, whose trials and conditions of detention constitute a violation even of russian law? how much importance will be attached to these abuses when the partnership and association agreement is being negotiated with russia? question no 2 by bernd posselt (h-0999/08) subject: justice system in russia one of the main obstacles to unconstrained political and economic relations with russia and to a new partnership agreement is the presence of the major shortcomings in the russian justice system. what steps is the council taking to urge the review of political judgments – such as those in the yukos case resulting in the imprisonment of khodorkovsky, lebedev and bakhmina – and the equally illegal enforcement of those judgments, and to support the creation of a justice system independent of authoritarian political structures? question no 3 by tunne kelam (h-1008/08) subject: the rule of law and the judicial system in russia as a value-based community, the eu should make the rule of law and respect for human rights the cornerstone of its relations with third countries. the judicial system in russia is being politicised and is openly being used as a tool in the hands of kremlin rulers. lawlessness and corruption should therefore be on the list of priority for the eu when it seeks to pursue future relations. in view of the latest spectacular cases concerning khodorkovsky, lebedev and bachmina, my question to the council is: how does the council respond to russia in cases of such unlawful and corrupt court decisions? how will the council handle this issue in the eu-russia relationship and what measures will the council take to ensure that russia makes changes to its judiciary system?
i should like to welcome the minister to the chamber and welcome the czech republic to the presidency. i wish that every member of this chamber could say the same thing. i have to say i was shocked by the tenor of some of the questions directed at the czech prime minister today. one of our colleagues, mr de rossa from the irish republic, invited him to withdraw his remark that the lisbon treaty might not be as wonderful as mr de rossa thought, which apart from anything else was rather insulting to that majority of mr de rossa’s own constituency… (the president cut off the speaker.)
question no 4 by marian harkin (h-0969/08) subject: world trade liberalisation as part of the priorities of the czech presidency, the czech republic has outlined on the presidency website its ambitions in relation to world trade liberalisation. can the presidency elaborate on its ambitions in this regard and in particular on the steps it proposes to take in relation to food security in the eu?
first of all, like my colleague before me, mr hannan, i would like to welcome the czech presidency – it will be an interesting contrast with the last presidency of the eu – and once again apologise for the disgraceful behaviour shown by some of my colleagues in this chamber. it is all very well saying that we want to kick-start the wto talks, but we have had indian elections, we have had us elections and we have got european elections. with all these elections going on and changes of administration, how can we really kick-start the wto talks?
question no 5 by seán ó neachtain (h-0971/08) subject: future of the common agricultural policy 2013-2020 one of the priorities of the czech presidency is the common agricultural policy. what measures will be taken by the czech presidency to negotiate the future of the common agricultural policy?
and mrs ţicău's question? i am sorry, minister, i was not sure if you had addressed both questions.
that concludes question time.
mr president, the horn of africa is pretty much an unmitigated disaster. the region has been devastated by decades of war, famine, environmental degradation, corruption, mismanagement and political repression. human rights are abused as a matter of course. civil society is weak. alarmingly, the situation could easily deteriorate further. tensions between ethiopia and eritrea over disputed territory are still likely to flare up at any moment. the failed state of somalia remains infected by clan violence and islamist extremism, which will worsen as ethiopia now withdraws its troops and with the resignation of the recent president. we have also debated the epidemic of piracy off the somali coast. there is, of course, always a temptation by the eu to suggest military action as a panacea to the chaos in the horn of africa. past experience suggests this would be a terrible mistake. president bill clinton sent us troops to tame somalia, but that was a disaster too. the one oasis of optimism, in my view, is in the region of somaliland, which was formerly a british protectorate. it was absorbed into the somali republic in 1960 after foolishly voluntarily relinquishing its brief period of independence, but split away again in the chaos following the death of siad barre in 1991. ever since then, somaliland has been the only cohesive and functional polity in somalia. the people of somaliland benefit from a relatively benign government and progressive institutions. they also possess symbols of statehood such as a separate currency and a flag. speaking personally, and not for my party or my political group, perhaps it is time for the international community, led by the african union, to begin considering more seriously somaliland’s quest for independence. an independent somaliland, supported by the west, could be a force for stability and progress in an otherwise hopeless and chaotic region. certainly, the people of somaliland would be justified in asking why we here in the eu were so reluctant to recognise their de facto country, but were so quick to recognise the independence of kosovo.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, each year in the united kingdom when it comes to the commemoration of the wars of the 20th century, we use the words ‘at the going down of the sun and in the morning, we will remember them’. these are very moving words for me and my generation, my parents who both served in the second world war. and even for those generations that follow us, this commemoration is not simply a fitting tribute for all those who served. it is a reminder of the evils and of the human cost of war, a warning to those generations and a safeguard for peace and against conflict for future years. that is the importance of commemoration and, as the commissioner has said this evening, recognition is absolutely crucial for reconciliation for today’s generations. we are all aware of the carnage that occurred in srebrenica in 1995. eight thousand muslim men and boys were killed while seeking refuge in a safe area declared by the united nations security council in srebrenica. although it happened almost 14 years ago, it is only right and correct that we should commemorate the victims and be reminded of the events and the racial hatred which led to this terrible event. just last month, a group boasting over a thousand members was created on the networking site facebook which openly glorified the genocide in srebrenica. the group which had a name which translates as ‘knife, wire, srebrenica’ promoted the killing of the men and boys of srebrenica purely on the basis that they were bosnian muslims. it also spoke about their respect for the acts of ratko mladić, yet another bit of proof if it was needed that the ongoing freedom of mladić proves only to fuel hatred and give ammunition to those who seek to foster the tensions of the past. thanks to a public outcry, the facebook site was quickly taken down but not before over a thousand members in a single month between december 2008 and january 2009 had signed up. commemorating the victims of srebrenica sends a clear message to those individuals who glorify the acts of ratko mladić and radovan karadžić that we will not allow this to happen again, and that they are alone and isolated in their views. a bosnian court heard last month from psychologists about how survivors of the srebrenica massacre are intensely traumatised. the court heard that the problems for many survivors is that they can never have a chance to say goodbye to their relatives. whilst we cannot turn the clock back to allow these relatives a second chance, we can make sure that this genocide is not forgotten and that those responsible are brought to justice.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her comments tonight in support of this initiative. last july, i had the privilege, the obligation and the humbling experience to attend, on behalf of the president of our parliament, the memorial ceremony at srebrenica. it has marked me. it is something i will never, ever forget. thousands of people gathered in the hot july sunshine: dignified, sad, a ceremony of memorial, of remembrance and, of course, of grief. but we must remember because we, all of us as europeans, have a sense of déjà vu about potočari, a sense of complicity. we all saw on our tv screens the scenes before the massacre, before the flight to tulsa. we have that helplessness and hopelessness that we perhaps shared. we can never say ‘never again’, but we can say that we will remember, we will learn and we will help people to move forward. that is what this european day of memorial should be about. i will never forget what i experienced. i will never forget the mothers, the daughters, the families that i met over that period. i hope that we can deliver something lasting and positive to them for the future.
i have received six motions for resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 103(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote on the resolution will take place tomorrow (thursday 15 january 2009).
author. − mr president, i rise here today to ask this oral question on behalf not only of the committee on agriculture and rural development but also of the animal welfare intergroup, because i believe that we have a very strong agriculture in the european union. however, in order to have a strong agriculture, we must also have a strong welfare policy, because i believe the future of european agriculture is very much of a high-quality product and one that has very good welfare standards. we can use this to promote our products in a positive way, and this is why transport of animals is not only a motive but it is essential to have the right legislation in place. in many ways i want to concentrate this morning on the fact that we have legislation in place. we can argue whether this is sufficient or not, but the main thing at the moment is to check this legislation and be absolutely sure that member states are complying with it, because we know, for instance, that there are problems in some member states between national governments putting the legislation in place and the regional governments having to implement it. then there are problems. at the end of the day, it is the animals that suffer. i could highlight many things, but one particular thing we have problems with in europe is horse transport. a lot of horses at the end of their careers land up in salami in italy and they do not travel under the best conditions in any respect. we have had many of these vehicles followed through our own member states of the european union where the rules have not been complied with, the lorries have not stopped at the right times, the vehicles have not been of the right type and they have not had proper air conditioning or proper water, and these things cannot be allowed to go on. i often stand up and tell the commission not to add costs, but in many ways, when animals are going to slaughter, if the cost of transport is greater because they have to do a good job, they have to have the right vehicles and they must not overcrowd those vehicles, then i say, well, so be it! because many times, instead of the animals for slaughter travelling long distances, they should be killed in the member state and travel as chilled meat. therefore, we have much to do on this. i also would say to you that mr kyprianou, the previous commissioner for dg sanco, also gave us the reassurance when he was commissioner that not only would he implement the present legislation properly but also he would revisit the situation at the end of the term. we are moving very fast now towards the end of this parliamentary session and the end of this present commission and i would call on ms vassiliou, who has been a very good replacement for mr kyprianou, to honour that commitment, because animal transport is one of those things that we have to take incredibly seriously. we have made these points many times before, but we are a civilised society and in many ways a civilised society is judged very much in the way it treats not only its people but also its animals. therefore, i cannot, as i have said, emphasise this enough. my final points are on the oral question itself and that the animal transport regulation has been in force since 2007. the commission should, therefore, have received the first annual reports from the member states on the enforcement of the regulation. can the commission give an account of which member states have forwarded their reports? has the commission already carried out a preliminary analysis of the reports which would allow some statements to be made on the shortcomings and difficulties, but also on the major achievements, in the enforcement of legislation? will the commission consequently prepare a report on enforcement processes of the regulation in the member states? such an analysis would be essential in the context of planning a revision of the animal transport regulation. therefore, commissioner, i would like answers to these questions.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, let us first of all look at the background to this. the eight-hour mandatory time limit for animals in transport was agreed in december 2004 and entered into force in january 2007 across all 27 member states, with special derogations applying to longer journeys where it could be demonstrated that vehicle standards had been upgraded, providing animals with access to water, temperature control, adequate ventilation, and where frequent rest periods were incorporated into the journey time. special derogations were also permitted for remote rural areas and islands, like orkney and shetland in my own constituency, for instance, where longer journey times are unavoidable. but in these cases special bedded units with access to water have been designed so that the animals can be transported in relative comfort. in addition, a complete transport ban was introduced on certain animals such as calves under 10 days old and lambs less than one week old. i report with some satisfaction that these transport rules have been strictly observed, particularly in countries like scotland, where we continue to maintain some of the highest levels of best practice in the whole of the eu. but i am concerned at reports that, as neil parish has told us, these rules are not being similarly observed in other parts of the eu, particularly in some of the southern mediterranean member states and in some of the new east european accession states and particularly, again as neil parish stressed, where the transport of horses for slaughter is concerned. animal welfare ngos are still producing evidence of horrific abuse, with horses and sometimes other livestock being transported over vast distances in searing heat, with no access to water or proper ventilation, with no rest periods, packed into overcrowded trucks; as their journeys progress these animals become increasingly exhausted and dehydrated, some succumb to heat stress and can be seen desperately panting and gasping for air and, in the worst cases, many die. this practice has to be stopped and strict adherence to the regulation must be observed in all member states. i support the terms of neil parish’s oral question today, which seeks to check on the level of compliance with these measures. i hope that the commission can now provide us with this information and reassure us that steps are being taken to ensure the rigorous implementation of the eight-hour transportation limit for animals, with the appropriate derogations that i mentioned, and to stop the cruel breach of the existing eu regulations that still goes on.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, it is fascinating as always. no sense of irony again in this chamber. one of the biggest problems that we have, particularly in the united kingdom, is the monstrously stupid avalanche of rules and regulations that came to slaughterhouses 10 years ago which managed to close over 1 000 abattoirs in the united kingdom and gave rise to much longer journey times for animals. my brother-in-law is a butcher. he owns an abattoir in yorkshire and at one stage – and this got into the private eye magazine – there was a visiting vet supervising a vet supervising a meat inspector supervising two slaughtermen! that is the sort of nonsense that you get when you are dealing with this organisation’s rules and regulations. the problem is journey times. now from bridlington in my constituency, pigs, sheep and cattle are being transported right the way across england to manchester because of all these closures of slaughterhouses. that is what we need to address. i am also talking about the transportation of horses. my colleague, nigel farage, tells me that there are countries in the european union which actually regard horses as food! as an englishman, i find it absolutely incredible that people would eat their horses. an englishman would no more eat his horse than he would his dog or his children, but then i suppose that just shows the enormous cultural divide that there is between us and the other countries of this union. (laughter)
mr president, following that may not be easy! let me say that i have no difficulty whatsoever with efficient and proper rules governing animal welfare, but i am becoming concerned that we are getting ourselves onto a treadmill, where we are going to so tighten the noose around our agricultural industry that its practical functioning will be rendered impossible. i do see signs of such a development emerging from the commission consultation on reviewing the maximum travelling times and stock densities in transporting animals. the commission, let us recall, failed to get its way in the 2005 regulation. however, less than two years after it came into effect, it is trying again with an attempt to remove the repeatability of the eight-hour limit. i must say that, for my constituency of northern ireland, it would be ruinous, because to export animals – which we do – we are required to undertake a sea journey and if only one period of eight hours is allowed that would be utterly inadequate and utterly unacceptable. i would remind the house that such onerous conditions would not compare at all with the huge distances that animals are transported in south america, from whence we happily import! so, yet again, we would be in the business of punishing our own farmers, while caring nothing about what affects the imports we receive. i have to say that we have to get to a point of getting rid of this obsession of cutting off our nose to spite our face.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr parish on bringing this forward. despite our political differences, and notwithstanding his very obvious deficiencies as a human being, i think he is actually very sound on this and i support him. we need this regulation to be a success and we need it to be universally in force, but i have a number of reservations and i disagree with some colleagues who spoke this morning. mr stevenson said that longer journeys were unavoidable – i say: not so. mrs jensen spoke of 24-hours transport – not necessarily. mr allister, the agricultural industry has to ask questions itself. as a civilised society we need to look at the whole question, the whole purpose, the whole idea of transporting animals long distances and then killing them. if i were a meat eater i would be asking how can the suffering en route which we know about, the dehydration, the stress and – to our irish colleagues north and south – the sea journeys possibly improve the quality of the product at the end? to my mind it makes no economic sense; it does not make humanitarian sense. this is why i favour a complete ban on the transport of animals, which, i believe, would support rural economies. it would encourage local producers, yes, small and medium enterprises as someone spoke of, and it would enable consumption of food as near the point of production as possible. in the absence of that, and i know it is not going to happen in the near future, i think we need proper realistic enforcement of what we have at the moment, the regulation, and i urge the commission to use all the agencies across europe – police forces on motorways if necessary – to stop and check lorries to see whether they are carrying out the full requirements of this legislation.
mr president, has the commission considered the human health implications of poor implementation of animal welfare regulations? transport, especially transport over long distances with a lack of space, produces stress, and stress means more susceptibility to disease. this is particularly true for horses, where scientific studies show that transport makes horses become shedders. that means they excrete a lot more than they would normally, which greatly increases the likelihood of the spread of disease. many transported animals are going to slaughter – 320 million of them in the eu each year – so that means there is a greatly increased risk of diseases like salmonella entering the food chain. given the very poor level of implementation of current rules and the stress involved in long journeys, even with proper rest stops, especially for horses, does the commission plan to come forward, where necessary and on the basis of scientific evidence, with a finite absolute journey time limit? that would be in the interests of animal welfare and of human health.
mr president, like some other colleagues, i am going to concentrate on the transport of horses. there is now overwhelming evidence showing that eu rules meant to protect the welfare of horses during long-distance transport are being flouted, resulting in inhumane conditions and needless suffering. in some cases, horses are packed like sardines into steel lorries, where temperatures can be over 40°c. in some cases, those horses are transported for thousands of miles without food or water, causing injury or even death. does the commission have any information as to how many transgressions of regulation (ec) no 1/2005 have been taken to court by member states since it came into effect on 5 january 2007 and whether the eu regulations on harmonised gps monitoring of vehicles will be enforced? is there any way individuals can get access to data extracted from traces on movement of animals within member states? i know the commission can access that, but individuals cannot. i would like answers to those three specific questions please.
mr president, it gives me pleasure to speak on this most important debate this morning and i would emphasise how very important to the north west of england the transportation of live animals is. as the chair of the committee on agriculture said, we would much rather have these animals slaughtered and then transported after they have died for processing away from the base if the movement of the meat is needed; but in the north west we have a lot of horses, a lot of sheep and a lot of cattle – lots of movements of animals. i was a national member of parliament for 18 years. this was a continuous problem, raised time and again with me by my constituents. i submit that things have not really improved over the last 10 or 20 years. i am delighted that this question has been tabled. the first year was 2007 and reports had to be in by june 2008, but i submit that we are behind programme. i have listened to what the commissioner has said – that he will have a look at the advantage of satellite monitoring. that is a good idea. but i put to the commissioner that there are many detailed checks engrained in the regulation, quite rightly – things like the fitness for transport of the animals, transport practices, means of transport, sea containers, integral journey times, resting periods, space allowances – which are all matters that cannot be viewed by satellite. they need detailed inspections, and lessons need to be learned. i would have hoped that in his final remarks there would be a date by which he hopes to wind up and submit his proposals and conclusions at this early time in the implementation of the regulation, because, the sooner something is done to improve the situation, the better. it is appalling that these long journey times have to be faced by animals in their last few days of life. consumers want to see, as they want to with free-range hens and eggs, that we are being humane in our treatment, and they will pay an added price for the meat because they want to see us caring for these animals that are so precious and necessary for our food needs.
mr president, this debate has shown that there are, at the very least, huge doubts as to whether the current legislation is working, whether it is properly enforced across all member states, and even whether it can be properly enforced. is it possible to enforce this legislation when there is international transport of animals? we will have to examine whether we have to go back to the idea of a strict eight-hour limit with no derogations and without exceptions – except perhaps for sea transport from islands but, otherwise, no derogations at all. colleagues may be interested to know that there is a new website campaigning precisely for this, with a petition being gathered. it is: www.8hours.eu. many members and others listening to this debate may be interested in visiting this website.
mr president, i shall be very brief because i am the author of this question. could i just say to the commissioner before he sums up, that of the three questions here, he has answered the first one inasmuch as he mentioned the member states that have not yet produced a report. what i really want to know is: has the commission already carried out a preliminary analysis of the reports and what is happening? also, is the commission going to bring forward a report on the regulation in the future? that is what we need urgently. we also need to have best practice because slovenia, for instance, follows the vehicles through their country. many countries are doing good work and others are doing bad work, to put it bluntly. is the commission going to do a proper analysis of all this, and when is it going to come forward with it?
in writing. – president, once again it seems the laws we pass here are not being implemented across all member states. the animal transport regulation has been in force for 2 years now, yet there are still massive breaches of animal rights, particularly in the transportation and slaughter of horses. i would ask the commission what they are doing to ensure that horses are slaughtered in their countries of origin, without having to undergo long and distressing journeys to consuming countries. a major concern for me and the people i represent is that these animals travel in inhumane, crowded, filthy conditions, with limited food and water. this is unnecessary. while we cannot stop the meat being consumed, if animals are to be slaughtered they must be slaughtered in their countries of origin and transported to other countries as carcasses. furthermore, consumers must be told if the meat they are eating is not local but comes from hundreds of miles away. president, for the welfare of these horses, all the efforts we have made here in this parliament for the rights of transported animals must not continue to be ignored.
author. − mr president, i am delighted that you follow the mediterranean diet and see it is very successful for you! what this morning has shown me here, as the chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development, is that we have a very varied range of subjects to talk about. one minute we are talking about animal transport – a very important subject – and now we are talking about another very important subject: the mediterranean diet. one of the jobs that has come to me, as chair of the committee on agriculture, and that we are particularly trying to get to grips with is that, on the occasion of the council of ministers held in brussels on 16 july 2007, the commission reiterated its full support for the nomination of the mediterranean diet as an intangible cultural heritage of humanity by unesco. this nomination will be examined in 2009 – in fact, it now has been – by the responsible unesco committee. is the commission planning to set up a specific and coordinated strategy to support this nomination, because we are moving on very fast now? i represent, as i said, the committee on agriculture here, but i probably represent all members when we talk about diet, because one of the great things about europe is its diversity and culture and part of that diversity and culture is, of course, our food. the mediterranean diet is a very good one. what is the mediterranean diet? i am sure we could talk a great deal about that this morning, but it is generally a diet rich in oily fish, olive oils, fruit and vegetables. it is without doubt a very tasty diet, and you can see by the size of me that i am a very big fan of it. it is also a healthy diet: it is a rich source of essential fatty acids and antioxidants, a combination that can help improve cholesterol levels and protect heart health. recent medical research has also suggested it may help cut the risk of conditions such as dementia. when you go to mediterranean countries you can see that people enjoy it, and not only those who live there but also many of us who travel to mediterranean countries, especially when we want some sunshine and also some very good food. it is something that we need to take seriously in a world where everything seems to be uniform. we see the new generations being bombarded by the fast-food chains – i will not name them all here today – which are spreading throughout the european union. we should remember that, yes, there is a role for a fast-food chain, but it would be a terrible thing if, in years to come, all we found when we travelled through europe was fast food. travelling through parts of america – especially on the west coast – there seems to be nothing but fast-food chains, and that is the last thing we want here in the european union. as i said, we need to support mediterranean food, and it is a very good idea for culture and diversity. i think that in the future we will have to look at other forms of diet across the european union, because what i want to say to you quite clearly this morning is that while i am a great supporter of the mediterranean diet, i do not come here as the chair of the committee on agriculture just to support the mediterranean diet, because there are other diets across europe that are equally as good but have different qualities and different food. so this is the start of many things to come and, as i said, i really want to know from the commission how it intends to actively support this bid throughout this year, because we are looking forward to an award for the mediterranean diet and we are also looking forward to having some very good mediterranean food in the future.
mr president, the field of equal pay and gender equality has been perhaps the supreme example in the european union of judicial activism, of the treaty saying one thing and then the european court interpreting that in an expansive and creative way. the treaty of rome has one sentence on the subject which you would have thought is very easily understood: ‘men and women shall be given equal pay for equal work’. but in a series of contentious judgments – defrenne v. sabena, barber v. guardian royal exchange, and others – the definition has been progressively widened, first so as to include holiday entitlements and pensions and so on, and then so as to include work of equivalent value. it is not at all clear how an employer is supposed to assess work of equivalent value, whether he is required, for example, to factor in the availability of suitably qualified applicants. my point is not really to do with gender equality, it is to do with the fairness of member states thinking that they have signed one treaty, and then finding that it is interpreted in the courts by judges who give it a meaning that it could not possibly have been intended to have. before we open the door to massive new extensions through the treaty of lisbon, we should put it to a referendum. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, firstly i was delighted to see that no action was taken against members who decided to demonstrate during this vote with their ‘stop the war’ placards and their palestinian flags. i hope we have now set the precedent that, unlike those who demonstrated for a referendum, we accept the right to make a peaceful point in a suitable manner as part of the democratic process. like everybody else in this chamber, i am of course horrified by what has been happening in the middle east. the losers are not one side or the other but people of good will throughout the region. there are gazan families peaceably trying to bring up their children, who are horrified at the hell unleashed on them by the rocket launches. there are israelis who understand that one day an independent palestine will be their neighbour and that actions of this kind are unlikely to make it a benign neighbour. but, in the current circumstances, nobody wants to listen to such voices. i would just say that i am puzzled by the resolution’s insistence on proportionality. i am not sure what proportionality means. would critics of the israeli government be happier if it had rained an equivalent number of rockets randomly on gazan villages? i see your gavel raised so i will simply say that i hope that the ceasefire is quickly negotiated and that we can get back to talking and to finding a peaceful resolution.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues are fully supportive of eu and international efforts to promote peace, democracy and prosperity for the people of afghanistan. the future stability of afghanistan is of crucial concern to the security of eu member states and wider afield. we support funding for development and the promotion of good governance in afghanistan, but equally believe this funding must be effectively monitored. transparency in the use of taxpayers' money is of great concern and any evidence of misappropriation or misuse must be dealt with properly. we wish to make clear that our support for this report in no way implies recognition of the treaty of lisbon, which is mentioned in recital 11 of the report. we oppose the treaty of lisbon in principle.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues are fully supportive of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in all aspects of life, including access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions. however, we believe these matters are primarily ones for member states to pursue and not for the european union. we have therefore decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. − ukip fully supports equality for men and women. however, the uk already has equality legislation and can change and improve it as and when required to by our parliament and people. further legislation and bureaucracy imposed by the eu is therefore unnecessary. furthermore, the eu is undemocratic and not a safe guardian of anyone's rights, including those of women.
in writing. − equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of the european union. there is still much to be done to achieve this principle and i hope that we will make this a political priority in all areas of our work in the european parliament. it should not be just the committee on women’s rights which raises these issues.
in writing. − i voted for the joint resolution even although it was less rigorous in its condemnation of israel’s action in gaza than i would have liked. hamas random rocket attacks cannot be supported, yet it was not entirely the responsibility of hamas that the ceasefire ended. the israeli action is entirely disproportionate and its targeting of innocent civilians – men, women and children – is a form of collective punishment that is in contravention of international humanitarian law. the attacks on un offices and its aid provision seem deliberately aimed at cutting off aid to the needy and removing independent observers of israel’s barbaric actions.
in writing. − the situation in the gaza strip is deplorable. hundreds of innocent civilians have been killed and thousands presently face death on a daily basis. yes, i accept israel should be allowed to live in peace. yes, rocket attacks across the border are unacceptable and should stop. but the response by israel is totally disproportionate and cannot be supported. the israelis have failed to respect the international community. they have shelled the un compound, they have attacked schools and children. this is totally unacceptable and must stop. we must have a ceasefire immediately. i will in vote in favour of this resolution because the european parliament needs to have its voice heard so that innocent palestinians trapped in gaza will not be forgotten. israel: you have the right to live in peace. you do not have the right to practise wanton destruction and to be the delivery body of death and destruction on innocent civilians. your actions mean that you have become the aggressor, not the victim.
in writing. − i support the resolution on gaza and support calls for an immediate ceasefire.
in writing. − belarus remains largely ostracised by the european union due to president lukashenko’s authoritarian rule. in the past five years the european parliament has twice awarded the sakharov prize to belarusian dissidents, and others have been shortlisted. this represents an explicit recognition that human rights and political freedoms are suppressed in belarus. nevertheless, there are signs that mr lukashenko is slowly warming to the west. naturally the situation in belarus still remains serious. but we need to recognize that one way of coaxing belarus towards the european union is to recognize and respond to mr lukashenko’s overtures. in short, it is a carrot-and-stick situation. as someone with a deep interest in the former soviet republics in central asia, i see parallels between that region and belarus. this resolution does not hold back on criticism of mr lukashenko, but it sets out a kind of road map for him to normalise relations with the eu. we should not be under any illusions about belarus and we should not hesitate to break off dialogue if the situation deteriorates. but this resolution offers some hope that relations can improve over time, and for that reason i voted to support it.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues fully support the need for the democratic opposition in belarus to be involved in the process of gradual re-engagement between the eu and belarus. currently president lukashenko, who is the local strongman running an authoritarian regime, is making overtures to the eu and distancing himself from moscow, a process which we should encourage by improving our political relations with minsk. we also support the calls for the government of belarus to uphold and respect human rights, which is an important part of the process of improving relations between the eu and belarus. for these reasons and to stress the importance we place on a democratic future for belarus, we have decided to support this joint resolution. we also wish to make clear that, with regard to paragraph 16 of this joint resolution, the death penalty issue is a matter of conscience for british conservative meps.
in writing. − this resolution tragically reminds us that ‘man’s inhumanity to man’ is not something that ended after the holocaust of world war ii. it continued in europe with srebrenica and it continues today in gaza!
author. − mr president, the story of shirin ebadi, nobel peace prize-winning lawyer, the first muslim woman and first iranian to receive the prize, may be well known to most of us here today. she was the first female judge in her country but was forced to resign due to the iranian revolution. she defended the rights of iranian women and children, fighting to change divorce and inheritance laws in iran. she stood up to defend religious minorities and their rights, and most recently she has defended seven members of the bahá’í faith who have been collectively arrested and who face persecution like many others of faith in iran. but it is her work on human rights and her courage and determination which has gained her the respect of all of us in the chamber. she, along with other human rights activists, bravely founded the centre for the defence of human rights in tehran. its purpose was to report human rights violations in iran, to provide representation of political prisoners and to help their families. however, right from the start the authorities have tried to close the office down. those who work there have been threatened, imprisoned and intimidated. shirin ebadi has personally faced numerous death threats, and the international community has for some time expressed its concern for her safety. then, just before christmas, as those at the centre were about to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, iranian security officials closed the centre down. the centre must be reopened immediately. we must put pressure on the commission, the high representative, the czech presidency and our own member states to take this case up and see the centre reopened. it is hard for us sitting here in this chamber to truly comprehend the bravery, the courage and strength required by human rights activists like shirin ebadi to function in iran and stand up to the dictatorship. however, the work of human rights lawyers and activists is needed to shine a light on what is happening in iran, to give hope to those like the alaei brothers. arash and kamiar alaei are both doctors helping those with hiv and aids who have been charged with cooperating with an enemy, when all they have been doing is trying to help the sick. i hope that we will see the re-opening of the human rights centre and that this parliament will do all it can to help shirin ebadi. after all, as fellow human beings, her struggle is also our struggle.
author. − mr president, i think it is important for us to support human rights defenders, whether we think that governments are going to be listening to us or not. people have often told us they take great courage from external voices recognising the threat that they are under. as has been said, this is a serious case, because an attack on such an internationally renowned defender of human rights signals that people questioning the state or exercising their fundamental rights, such as those to the freedom of belief, will not be safe, so they have to conform to the state or face the consequences. shirin ebadi herself has faced death threats on many occasions, not least because she has defended the seven-member leadership of the bahá’í faith in iran, who themselves face significant persecution. we have seen further arrests in the last 24 hours of people who have worked with her and indeed other members of the bahá’í faith. when we look at what we do here, we also need to realise that we are actually seeing a shift in the recognition of human rights by certain governments throughout the world, and that this has an impact on countries with which the european union has dealings. they now feel that they do not have to pay so much attention to human rights because they can trade and work with countries that really do not care. i think, therefore, that makes it even more important for us to make sure that we try to uphold those standards and that, as has been said, we do not look to increase trade with countries whose human rights records are abysmal, but make every effort to support those working for human rights and those democrats opposing the undemocratic forces.
mr president, president lansana conté was the archetypal african strong man, a corrupt dictator who ruled the people of guinea with an iron fist. in fact, guinea has never enjoyed true democracy in its half-century of independence. the death of mr conté offered an opportunity for guinea to turn the page. but any hopes of transition to genuine democracy were extinguished by the military coup. predictably, the african union’s response to the coup has been lamentably lacklustre. the au cannot expect to be taken seriously internationally while it continues to prevaricate and procrastinate. why should we in the west go to such lengths to address this issue when african governments appear so indifferent? the eu should consider invoking the provisions of the cotonou agreement relating to sanctions. captain camara and the coup leaders need to understand that the eu expects certain basic standards of governance in return for a trade-and-aid relationship. guinea’s only path to prosperity is through democratic, civilian government.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, until last year’s violence, kenya had a reputation as one of africa’s politically more stable countries and had a tradition of a relatively free and robust press. president kibaki needs to realise that political stability and a free press are mutually reinforcing. this restriction of freedom of speech, as proposed, is unbecoming for a country led by a man who came to power promising a new era of openness and transparency. unfortunately, it seems that many senior politicians in kenya have still not developed a sufficiently thick skin to handle the inevitable barbs of a free press and a democracy. i hope that president kibaki will take our advice and change his mind. that would reassure us of kenya’s purported commitment to a free society under a power-sharing coalition government. it would also strengthen kenya’s case for moral authority and leadership in an unstable region. i welcome the president’s pledge now to consider amendments to this bill and to consult more widely with the media. given that prime minister raila odinga and the odm, his party, are vigorously opposed to this legislation, it is also vital for the stability of the government that it does not become even more of an inflammatory and divisive political issue.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i am glad to have the opportunity to speak on this joint motion for a resolution on press freedom in kenya. a year ago, like many others, i was dismayed and disappointed that, after flawed presidential elections in kenya, street demonstrations led to riots and ethnic clashes that spread across the country, killing more than a thousand people and leaving another 350 000 people homeless. those responsible for the post-election violence a year ago must be brought to justice and a period of reconciliation and tolerance is now essential for kenya. in this context, it is very bad news that, on friday 2 january 2009, president kibaki signed the kenya communications (amendment) bill 2008, which amends the kenya communications act of 1998. this bill flies in the face of press freedom and disregards international conventions signed up to by the kenyan government. two sections effectively introduce direct media censorship by the government. section 88 gives the information minister considerable powers to raid and dismantle broadcasting equipment from a media house that is deemed to be a threat to national security. section 46 gives the state the power to regulate contents to be aired and published by both electronic and print media. within kenya, the bill has been opposed by journalists, by prime minister odinga and by the odm, and its passing highlights a serious lack of consultation within the current grand coalition. i regret the passing of this bill and urge that any revision of the media law takes account of the many, many reservations expressed.
mr president, last monday the british government announced feasibility studies into five tidal-power schemes in the severn estuary: three would be barrages and two would be lagoons. the eu has rightly set ambitious targets for renewable energy, but the idea that achieving these targets will be pain-free is a delusion. the severn barrage could supply up to 5% of the uk’s energy needs, yet this would challenge interpretations of the habitats directive. the result of legal arguments – or public opinion – blocking the scheme would be to prove the truth of nietzsche’s dictum that madness is rare in individuals, but common in parties, groups and organisations. the eu and the british government should ponder jeremy bentham’s philosophy that we should look for the greatest good for the greatest number.
madam president, as the economic crisis deepens, major issues leading to industrial action are emerging in the united kingdom, flowing from the compulsion for unrestricted free movement of labour within the eu and the procurement requirements in regard to major public contracts, whereby contracts won by foreign companies are resulting in a significant influx of foreign workers, putting local workers and local unemployed at a disadvantage and depriving them of opportunities. in this, i believe, many will come to see the price being paid by the united kingdom for eu membership. we are being compelled to subject ourselves to labour market laws and to the supremacy of eu law and the rulings of the european court of justice. procurement policy, which prohibits preferment for local contractors and workers, is stoking up more and more resentment of the eu and its inflexible regime.
madam president, as you know, there have been widespread protests in my country about an italian company which has won a contract in an oil refinery in my constituency, and has only used italian labour for the contract. the outcry is understandable if indeed the company in question has reserved the right to its own nationals and not allowed british nationals to work. that would be a violation of european union law (discrimination on grounds of nationality), as it would be if the company were undermining british legal requirements, which it must observe under the posted workers directive. if, however, the protesters are saying that only british companies should have had the right to tender for that work and only employ british labour, then, of course, the protesters would be making an argument that would not be correct. they should bear in mind that there are over two million british citizens who work in other eu countries, and only a million non-british eu citizens who work in britain. the slogan ‘british workers for british jobs’ must mean enabling british workers to compete in a well-trained way and without suffering discrimination. it cannot mean reserving things solely to the nationality of the country concerned, either in britain or in any other member state of the european union.
madam president, many will be aware of the recent dioxin scare in the republic of ireland. beef farmers in northern ireland were also caught up in this problem because they imported the compound feed which caused the problem in their animals. the northern ireland executive has now offered the farmers 25% compensation, which will mean ruin for them. the executive is having problems finding the matching funds, and will not be able to draw the 37.5% that is available from the european union. i understand that the government of the republic of ireland has made it clear that it will not be accepting any responsibility, even though the feed mill was licensed by it and under its control. there is also a substantial amount of infected pigmeat at one plant. this is a very serious and dangerous problem and must be resolved as soon as possible.
that concludes the item.
the next item is the commission statement on the impact assessment of the compromises reached in the doha negotiations on nama and services at the end of july 2008.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, we in the party of european socialists are committed to a successful outcome of the doha development round, yet the ticking of the political clock has created a situation where, if you like, progress is on hold. commissioner ashton made the point that in the united states we have a new, and from my point of view, very welcome, administration in that of president obama, but we are waiting for a review of trade policy, which may take some time. in april or may there will be elections in india. the one place commissioner ashton did not mention was the european union itself, where we have our own european parliament elections in june, and following that a new incoming commission, in which i hope commissioner ashton will continue to serve as trade commissioner. yet that does not mean that there is nothing to do in the interim. europe must continue to emphasise its commitment to development and free trade within the context of ensuring an end to exploitation and meeting the need for sustainable development. i agree with mr papastamkos: free trade on this basis can be a win-win situation for all participants. the current financial and economic crisis is a reason to move forward and not to retreat. commissioner ashton and the commission can try to prepare the ground for a compromise between the united states and india. it was obstinacy on both sides, in my view, that acted to scupper a successful conclusion at the last time of asking. matters may be 80% agreed, but we need the other 20%. we have one new administration in the united states. the outcome of the indian election may give us another. in the mean time, we have no choice but to continue to pursue bilateral agreements. i welcome the progress made in last week’s negotiations on the free trade agreement with the republic of korea, where i understand we are close to reaching an agreement which, again, will benefit both sides. i am the rapporteur on the free trade agreement with asean, and have to say that the negotiating basis is creating an institutional road block. we need to consider the possibility of looking at a coalition of the willing and able among asean who can, if you like, sign off on an agreement. as with india, there is in my view currently no governmental will to achieve an outcome. after the election, delhi’s incoming administration, whether new or old, must put up, or we the eu must move on to those who want not just to talk, but to arrive at a conclusion. finally, i welcome mr pannella, the next speaker, who is the new alde spokesman on trade. maybe a visit to the committee on international trade would prove appropriate. we would welcome him.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on production and employment in the textile and clothing sector in various eu member states.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, last year’s energy review was a timely update, and i congratulate anne laperrouze for her rigorous report on it. the issues raised are highly complex, but we can boil them down to this: europe needs an energy policy that gives us sustainable, affordable and secure resources of energy. sustainable by breaking our umbilical dependence on the fossil fuels that are choking our planet; affordable by guaranteeing a stable and realistic cost to consumers; and secure by freeing european citizens from dependence on unreliable or monopolistic suppliers. this friday, a group of commissioners will meet prime minister putin and his team of ministers. energy is on the agenda, and our side should make clear that we cannot tolerate a dispute between russia and georgia evolving into a european gas crisis in the depths of winter. assurances should be sought, but notice should also be served. this has happened before, and it must not happen again. the time has come fundamentally to reassess europe’s energy supplies. this view is shared by members of all groups in this house, who should unite in leading the charge to make it happen. that is why this week a small group of us, including mr hammerstein, who will speak later, will launch a cross-party pamphlet, making the green energy switch at a time of crisis. i am grateful to all members who contributed their ideas, and i am startled by the degree of consensus that exists. there is an appetite in this chamber to work fast, to work together, in search of a lasting solution to europe’s energy crisis, and we must harness that. of all the potential plans to open up a new energy era, one stands out: it is called the supergrid, or desertec. the french presidency cited it as a possible operation project for our new european union for the mediterranean. a number of members, including ms harms, recently visited southern spain to see the technology in action: solar thermal power from north africa and sun-rich land in southern europe harvesting energy from the sun, generating the equivalent of one and a half million barrels of oil per square kilometre per year. transported through energy-efficient, high-voltage direct current cables, that power could be fed into a european supergrid, taking renewable energy from across the eu – tidal power from coastal regions, wind and wave power from windswept north-western europe, and biomass and geothermal power from wherever they flourish. upfront, there are costs. the german aerospace centre estimates it would cost eur 45 billion to build, but it also says that it would save consumers many times that amount in reduced energy bills over the next 35 years, and the investment would create thousands of jobs. this is a bold project for an energy future that is sustainable, affordable and secure. that is the energy future that europe must champion.
madam president, in all the discussions on the energy crisis, there is one aspect which my colleague, anne laperrouze, does mention, but which generally receives insufficient attention. we talk about energy efficiency in the context of climate change and of fuel poverty, but energy efficiency is also of huge strategic importance. controlling demand takes pressure off the supply side and is crucial to reaching energy independence in europe. i want to make two specific points in the context of the oral question on the use of information and communication technologies. first, i am concerned that the roll-out of smart meters is not going ahead with the degree of commitment required by the energy end-use efficiency and energy services directive and called for in the morgan report. in some countries, digital displays are available to show consumers how much energy they are using – which is helpful – but a proper smart meter does much more than that. it allows two-way communication, detailed analysis of consumer demand and proper measurement and payment of electricity supplied by micro-renewables. we need smart meters now. they are crucial to the task of transforming buildings from being energy consumers into being net energy producers. secondly, with regard to lighting, i trust we are about to go ahead with taking the most inefficient domestic lighting off the market, and the same needs to happen for office and street lighting. we should, however, already be looking forward to the next technological steps, such as wider use of smart lighting systems using sensors, which measure movement and the degree of natural light so that lighting can be reduced – or indeed switched off when necessary. there is a lot more to energy-efficient lighting than compact fluorescents, and it is time for the public sector – and that includes the european institutions – to take the lead on using ict for energy efficiency.
rapporteur. − mr president, it is particularly appropriate that mrs reding is responding for the commission tonight because my report is focused on a proposal that has been developed over a number of years with her services. it is an extremely important proposal, which has wide-ranging possibilities for the whole of the european economy. my first message to the commissioner tonight is to thank her services for their leadership on this, but to say that i think this initiative needs to be much better known. it needs to spread out widely from dg information society – as i think it is now starting to do – because it is of such importance, particularly in the economic times we are in at the moment. so, what am i talking about? well, the core of the issue is that public authorities in the european union spend huge amounts of public money on buying products and services. it is estimated that eur 1 800 billion is spent on public procurement every year. how much of that procurement is actually spent on investigating, researching and encouraging the development of new solutions to the big challenges that public authorities and indeed society face every day: a better health service, a better transport solution, dealing with climate change, more energy efficient buildings? eu procurement spending linked to research and development is less than 1% of that total procurement budget. bearing in mind that we have an explicit objective in the lisbon strategy to move our r&d spending up towards the 3% target, there is huge potential here. that is where the whole mission of pre-commercial procurement comes in. essentially, what we are looking for are intelligent, research-focused public authorities to generate a demand for innovative solutions and then work with innovative companies large and small – but particularly small enterprises who really can benefit from this – to fulfil those requirements. we want those intelligent customers to really think ahead, to be demanding, to think about the solutions for which no commercial solution yet exists, but where there are basically a range of solutions which can then be developed with the financial contribution from the public authority to do just that – to fund research and development, perhaps through a first competing stage of ideas, and then take those development solutions to a next stage towards the viability of a product or service that can then be launched. the benefits of having that backing, for a small enterprise in particular, and giving that commercial support will be really important to that business. indeed, where this has been already rolled out, we see the experience where businesses, even if they do not produce the winning solution, have had an element of their research and development funded that they can then go on and use to develop other revenue-generating products. this also ties in with the second initiative from the commission covered in my report, the ‘lead market initiative’, where we are looking for public authorities to lead in a number of key technology areas around health and climate change in transport. there are signs of an integrated policy emerging, but my report says that we need more training, we need more best practice, and we need more dispersion and dissemination of this proposal. i hope that the commissioner, and indeed the college, will pick up on this and that this parliament will show it is right behind this solution. in conclusion – and if you will allow me a short amount of extra time because this is, in a sense a point of order – i want to point out first of all to this empty house that i had two opinions for my report from mr sakalas from the committee on legal affairs and mrs podimata from the committee on industry. they are of course not allowed to present those opinions here, which seems rather a shame since they made valuable contributions which i have added to my amendments. i also want to thank my shadow, mr hasse ferreira, for working with me, and he has also contributed extensively. just to wind up, this is a solution where everyone will be winners: society, citizens, public authorities, business, innovators and the european economy. that is why it is so important and why, when we are looking to public authorities to continue investment in this time of economic crisis, this proposal is even more important than it was when i started this report a few month ago.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i should like to thank ms angelilli for this report. i would echo what has been said by our colleague, ms bauer, in terms of our own member states taking action to sign and ratify some of the conventions and protocols which are missing at the moment. if we are looking for a common framework and a common approach, these are very key reference points which also help to send a signal from member states that they, too, are concerned about these issues. i think this is one of the key things they should be doing, and it would be interesting to know why certain member states have not yet actually signed up to the relevant conventions and protocols. we welcome much of the report in terms of the rights-based approach, which i would like to see leading on and away from the view that it is only about criminal justice. this is actually about the rights and the protection of children and young people. we need those clear measures to support children who have been victims – whether through court proceedings, where obviously the key issue is to find the truth but not in a way that leaves children more traumatised than they were at the beginning of the process, or through the collective work on identifying children. however, the protection also has to involve the children themselves. we should encourage internet literacy among children as well their own understanding of what the dangers are and what they should be looking for so that they, too, can play an active part in helping to combat these crimes. we intend to support certain of the amendments this morning, particularly where we think there are certain principles which we tamper with at our peril – such as on double criminality and confidentiality in certain professions – and one or two others where we think the concept perhaps needs further definition. we are, however, generally very much in favour of this report and look forward to its further progress.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we very much appreciate the work of both mr fava in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and ms bauer in the committee on employment and social affairs. i think we in this house will have to get used to the enhanced cooperation procedure on measures which actually link employment and migration. as has already been said, this is supposed to be part of the common immigration policy of the european union, dealing with the pull factor of possible work, often within the informal economy and amongst vulnerable and non-organised workers. however, it can also apply where there are genuine vacancies, which cannot be filled from the national labour pool, and where member states are not issuing sufficient work permits, or where there is a creaking bureaucracy that cannot respond quickly enough to applications with a labour-market purpose. there is also a gap that we have yet to fill for people for whom no return to their country of origin is possible – for example to zimbabwe – and who are often left legally destitute, as it were, and, therefore, need to find a way to keep themselves alive. the majority of member states already have, in theory, measures in place to deal with the situation of irregular migration, and you would think that would signal an apparent commitment to action. yet the commission proposals on inspection in its original document have been really watered down, and parliament has had to fight to get even what we have currently in article 15. it is to be hoped that those inspections will not just pick off small businesses but will actually look at some of the larger enterprises that rely very heavily, at the bottom end, on vulnerable workers. that is why the issue of subcontractor liability was extremely important to many of us in this house. some of us consider that what we are left with is, again, a watered-down version of the commission’s original proposal. people have mentioned the issue of the residence permit, where member states may choose to make this available for particularly severe cases where complaints have been brought. that, i suppose, is a step forward – at least from where some member states were. one of the issues that has concerned many of us is remuneration – when you cannot determine what the length of an employment contract was – and issues regarding payment of national insurance and tax, which we know for many vulnerable workers are often taken out of their pay packets but not necessarily handed on to the authorities. for many of us, this issue about payment for work done is a question of principle; it is also that companies and economies have benefited and that this is not supposed to be a legislative measure to punish the irregular migrant. it is also – if you are looking at this as part of an overall policy – part of a sustainable return that people will actually go back with what they have earned. we have no guarantee that member states will ensure that people are paid. we have an assurance that mechanisms will be in place so that claims can be made but not that money will be paid over. there is thus no guarantee that payment will be made. some may take the view that individuals take a chance and there is a risk, but if we are looking at questions of human dignity, and where this fits in the overall goals of a common immigration policy, this is a serious issue. so, for my political group, the balance of this proposal is no longer clear either on inspections or remuneration, and other areas have been watered down. we do not feel that member states are showing much commitment and, therefore, we will not be supporting this proposal.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, illegal immigration is a problem, which is made worse by the free movement of peoples. however, the current wave of unrest that is spreading rapidly through britain is of course being caused by legal migration and by the european union’s own rules. for 20 years, british trade unions, having being seduced by jacques delors, thought the european union was in their interests. well, now the penny has dropped and they have realised that a british government is unable to put british interests first. i am afraid it will get quite a lot worse. as we embark upon a round of massive public spending projects, such as the olympics and council house building, thousands of european workers are set to benefit. british jobs for british workers cannot be guaranteed all the while we are inside the eu. the prospect of british taxpayers funding foreign workers is, frankly, unacceptable. but the government is holding firm, saying that the european union is a wonderful thing. well, it is not surprising is it? lord mandelson is still getting gbp 78 000 a year from the european commission and, of course, gets a dependent pension on this in just a few years’ time – a conflict of interest if ever i saw one. the big concern now is whether the xenophobic far right will benefit. we do not want that either. we in ukip will put a non-racist agenda to the british people at the european elections, saying that it is time to put british interests first. we are not protectionists, but we want good common sense. we want to control our own borders and decide who lives, works and settles in our country.
mr president, once more we have preened ourselves in this parliament on our green credentials, and speakers have competed to push higher and higher the unrealistic targets for energy from only renewable sources and the targets for reductions of co2 emissions – all in the belief that by our puny but costly efforts we will save the planet. yes, we should use and promote sustainable energy sources, but pursuit of what for most has become a dogma with no regard to cost or viability needs to be tempered by reality, including the reality that climate change is not new, but cyclical. and the reality that while we inflict these targets on ourselves, manufacturing increasingly switches to where no such restraints inhibit them. one day, we will have to account for the own goals in which the eu excels.
mr president, i was delighted to be able to support mr luís queiró’s report on proportionality and subsidiarity of small airports. we have always tried to have one-size-fits-all policies in the eu, but the eu must recognise that each member state and all local circumstances require different solutions. mr queiró’s report has addressed that in its fullest. there are small airports, there are medium-sized airports and there are large international hubs. we do not want the european union to be a massive airport structure. we have got the right balance in this report, and that is the way we should be looking at our infrastructure in the future. this is one of the reasons why in my own constituency of the south-east of england i am very reluctant indeed to support a third runway at heathrow when we could have a better structure for kent in a new airport on the thames estuary.
mr president, i am very grateful to anna záborská for producing this report. even though my group had some issues with it, i feel that she has touched upon something which is fundamentally important for the eu. the eu’s population is dropping sharply. the role of women in raising families is not recognised in many of the member states as a contribution to their national gdp. women and mothers are an integral part of working life in our society, and there are many millions of mothers looking after their children in my constituency in the south-east of england. their contribution to the british gdp and to my own region’s wealth is of fundamental importance for our country. this report, for the first time in the european union i believe, recognises that contribution. we need to encourage our parliament to look at these issues in technical detail in the future so that we have equality and solidarity between the sexes.
mr president, today we debate and deplore the evil of the sexual exploitation of children. virtually every speaker in the debate rightly condemned paedophile activities and pornographic abuse of children. likewise the misuse of the internet drew the wrath of many. but it is disappointing that, despite such unanimity, several member states have not attained the same level of criminalisation of this abuse of children. grooming, sexual abuse and child pornography should have no place anywhere in the eu, nor should we tolerate any of it. silence is the best friend of paedophilia. we have seen it in churches, families and communities, where a blind eye has been turned, leading to some of the scandals of which we are aware in our various member states.
in writing. − there are several reasons why this agreement strengthens the eu internal market and cooperation in standards as well as maintaining consumer protection. first among them is that science is a global discipline and advances we can share go towards increasing the sum total of human endeavour. benefits which we can work towards are specifically and generally a positive. whether it is the car industry working to reduce emissions, or universities creating strategic links, the success of promoting this agreement is measurable. consumers too are beneficiaries indirectly, as the best minds can be brought to bear to create greater trust in the answers to our joint concerns.
in writing. − this report indicates that not even the farthest reaches of europe are beyond the eu’s grasp. the whole point of wilderness is that it is supposed to be untouched by mankind – including the eu. however, given the various pressures on the environment, the commission has proposed action to protect and nurture europe’s most remote and isolated regions. i am therefore generally supportive of this report, provided that member states retain a prominent role in the management, designation and protection of wilderness. i am somewhat sceptical about the merits of an eu strategy on wilderness, given that the eu’s management of agriculture and fisheries has proved to be so disastrous. it is vital that the eu acts as a facilitator and repository of best practice in this process; otherwise the whole point of the measures proposed would be undermined. notwithstanding those caveats, my region of north-east england is blessed with isolated areas of outstanding natural beauty largely untouched by humans. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. − i support this report which highlights the need to protect the 46% of the world's land which is wilderness and has not been significantly modified by human activity.
in writing. − in recent years general and business aviation has been the fastest growing branch of the aviation sector. airports in my constituency of north-east england, such as newcastle and durham tees valley are popular with amateur pilots and, increasingly, business people. it is therefore a sub-sector that needs support and sensible regulation. i am impressed with the commission’s commitment to proportionality in the regulation of general and business aviation. this approach marks a significant departure from many previous transport-related proposals and is to be welcomed, although we must remain vigilant to ensure that the sector can continue to grow in a sustainable way without the kind of onerous red tape that, far too often, has characterized the commission’s proposals. inevitably this sector will decline somewhat in the short term as the economic crisis continues to set in. however, general and business aviation contributes significantly to economic growth, especially at a regional level as we in north-east england can attest. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report makes sobering reading: for all the talk about the lisbon agenda, and making europe the world’s most competitive economy by next year, i was shocked to read that the us public sector is spending usd 50 billion per year on research and development procurement. this amount is twenty times higher than in europe and an amount that represents approximately half of the overall research and development investment gap between the us and europe. i welcome this report by my colleague malcolm harbour, who has set out ways in which europe can begin to close that productivity gap. the key to this process is in the title: driving innovation. in my view the best way for the aspirations of this report to become reality is to ensure that the eu encourages innovation and technological development rather than throwing regulatory obstacles in the way. given the important role of public procurement in promoting and supporting new technologies, i supported this report. i hope its principles will be of use to local authorities in my region of north-east england.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues welcome the strategic approach on the supply of energy as contained in the laperrouze report on the second strategic energy review. we voted against the references to the lisbon treaty in line with our long-standing policy of opposing it. however, because there are references to the lisbon treaty which we could not specifically vote against, we have decided to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the laperrouze report on the second strategic energy review despite (for me) its over-enthusiasm for nuclear energy. i am not in favour of early closure of safe nuclear plants, but my enthusiasm for new plants is extremely limited. in my own region, the south-west of england, we have the possibility of constructing a tidal barrage across the severn that would, with far less potential damage to the environment, have an output of two nuclear power stations and provide in a ‘green’ way 5% of britain’s energy needs. i also voted in favour of the green amendment 22 pointing out the delay and escalating costs of the fusion power iter project. i was not in favour of basing this joint project in europe as the host pays a disproportionate part of the total budget. i was therefore in favour of japan, which wanted it, hosting this white elephant. far earlier than anticipated, i am being proved right.
in writing. − the eu has ambitious plans, matched against a risk that resources will be increasingly constrained as populations around the globe demand more energy. the answers, in maintaining current security of supply and developing efficient non-carbon based energy, are not mutually exclusive. safety of our environment and avoidance of energy poverty among those people, particularly in the south-east of england, who live on fixed incomes are equally important objectives. that is why i support a mixture of technological solutions to energy supply in the eu. whilst i respect the necessity for caution in the nuclear industry as regards safety, i believe it offers a degree of certainty: if we were deprived of this process now, it would be accordingly disastrous for many of my constituents on fixed incomes.
in writing. − energy independence in europe requires to be higher on the political agenda. the need for clear definitions across the european union on energy poverty is also important. there also requires to be more joined-up thinking in terms of how we can harness the green economy to help us through the current financial crisis by creating jobs, but also to give the eu energy the independence which we need. an investment in the eu grid has to be addressed.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues are supportive of a number of the general principles outlined in this report, including support for carers, work-life balance, and parental leave. however, due to certain references in this report, particularly with regard to the working time directive, we have chosen to abstain.
in writing. − i support this report which is in favour of the rights of workers regarding parental and carers' leave, providing a call for non-discrimination against carers, and more recognition for the work they do.
in writing. − often the eu seeks to take common action where things are better left to member states. in this case, however, i believe we can make a difference acting together. the scourge of child pornography and child sex abuse is a serious blight on our society, wrecking the lives of those most vulnerable and worthy of protection. given the nature of the eu and the free movement of people, it is vital that we use the various means at our disposal to combat these sickening crimes wherever they occur. in particular, it is important that information about offenders is coordinated and updated regularly. we must also improve cooperation with third countries so that eu citizens travelling outside the eu to commit sex crimes against children can be identified, stopped, prosecuted and extradited as required. the eu’s global role offers an important opportunity to promote our values in countries and regions where children’s rights are less well protected. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i support this report which calls on the remaining three countries which have not yet done so to implement the council framework decision on combating sexual exploitation of children. i support the increase of the level of protection for children, in particular on the internet and also on other developing new technologies.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, when senator obama became president obama, we all heaved a sigh of relief. the axis of evil, regime change, the war on terror: european citizens yearn to see those euphemisms consigned to history, along with the people who invented them. but breaking with the past and reverting to the rule of law take guts and grit, so i congratulate the new president. he was right to condemn waterboarding as torture, right to call a halt to the flawed military trials at guantánamo bay, and right to signal his determination to close the camp completely within a year. i welcome the assurance of the council presidency today that the us has now disowned all the squalid practices that have tarnished its government over recent years, including torture in third countries and extraordinary rendition, in order to put an end to the axis of illegality. but europe cannot stand back, shrug its shoulders and say that these things are for america alone to sort out. we lack the open debate and the collective change of will which american democracy allows. yet, too often, member states from our union were complicit in what the bush administration did. if the 43rd president taught us anything, it is this: that in the administration of international justice, the ‘go it alone’ mentality ends in a cul-de-sac of failure. so the challenge of guantánamo, the problem posed by 245 suspects floating outwith the justice system, is not an issue for america alone. it is a conundrum we must solve together. the united states must prosecute suspects, where sound evidence exists and in accordance with the rule of law. america must free those suspects against whom there is insufficient evidence and defend them if they are likely to face torture at home. but what about those who are released, who pose no threat, but who have no wish to remain in a country that wrongly imprisoned them? if asked, should not europe offer those few citizens the rights and freedoms that no other country will? we cannot forever balance the council’s assertion that it is for individual member states to decide with the council’s stated desire for a coordinated european position. europe has to speak with one voice and play its part in ending this affront to justice. many of us have criticised america in the past for its failure to work with others. we were right to do so, but our help may now be sought and we would be wrong to say ‘no’.
mr president, the main responsibility for closure of guantánamo bay and the resettlement of detainees undoubtedly lies with the us government. however, europe needs to recognise the political reality that the us cannot manage this alone. we have expressed a lot of goodwill towards president obama and commitment to transatlantic relations. that must imply an offer of practical assistance. there are also other reasons for eu member states to cooperate in closing the prison. first of all, the humanitarian argument, which i hardly need to labour, to rescue these men from the hellhole in which some of them have suffered for seven years. secondly, europe’s credibility: we have called on the us to close guantánamo, now we have to help to make that true. thirdly, our own self-interest in ending a potent symbol that acts as a pretext for terrorist recruitment and radicalisation and, lastly, the moral responsibility that claudio fava was talking about. however, i think we will deal with rendition and the collusion by european governments in a second motion for a resolution in two weeks’ time. so, i strongly welcome the joint resolution that we have agreed between the groups and across the political spectrum, and i really hope we will have a strong vote tomorrow. assuming the alde group accepts my advice, we will neither table nor support any amendments to this resolution. i just want to deal with a couple of things. firstly, the allegations about 61 released detainees having become involved in terrorism: we have heard from lawyers who know about these things that this is largely baseless. we know of two who have become involved in terrorism. others include those, like the eight people in albania, who gave interviews to the media; the so-called ‘tipton three’, british citizens who made a film criticising guantánamo. that is not ‘returning to terrorism’. lastly, concerning the security issues: we need to discuss those, but credible solutions are being put forward, and we can involve the lawyers in that.
mr president, the prison at guantánamo bay was a necessary creation of the united states at the time. its closure is now a matter for the united states. i oppose eu member states entangling themselves in the inevitable legal complications and the burden imposed on our security services of taking non-eu national prisoners previously designated as enemy combatants. i do not regret the detention of the most dangerous terrorists intent on destroying our way of life when they were proven to be so. however, one of guantánamo’s major drawbacks was that it forestalled any regular criminal proceedings against those held there. ultimately, regular criminal trials are the only way to resolve the status of guantánamo prisoners who are non-eu nationals. since the inmates of guantánamo were captured by the united states, it is america’s responsibility to prosecute them in its own courts, or return them to their countries of origin if innocent. if president obama is serious about closing guantánamo, which i welcome, and about protecting america and its allies, this should be his policy.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i should like to thank you for a very constructive and helpful debate. there are things the council can do; there are other things which the council is not obliged to do or which do not fall within its remit. let me start with the negatives – the limitations. as has already been stated, it does not fall within the council’s remit to monitor the implementation of community law by the member states; that falls to the commission, and my colleague commissioner barrot talked about that, and we are certainly working closely with the commission on many issues. it also does not fall within the council’s remit to implement national provisions of the member states. a lot has been said during this particular debate about the countries most involved: italy and france. on the other hand, we certainly have the will and the instruments to act, and the council is willing to act in the future. i think we all agree – i was listening to you carefully, because you were talking about the further need to improve eu action in the area of migration and asylum policy – that a lot was done last year and i think we are all grateful to the french presidency for taking the initiative in promoting the european pact on immigration and asylum, which specifically mentions some instruments of solidarity. now is the time to gradually implement that step by step. certainly parliament, together with the council and the commission, will have the possibility to work together on that. i can just promise you that our presidency, as well as the upcoming presidency – because this issue will not be resolved within the next few weeks – will be working hard on that. there are strategic issues; there are also issues that required more immediate reactions, such as reducing the risk of humanitarian crisis and the negative impact. i come from the czech republic, which is not under the media spotlight, but we have had our own experiences too: after the division of czechoslovakia in 1992, there was a huge inflow – hundreds of thousands – of the roma peoples from slovakia into czech territory. perhaps it was not like the situation in malta, where i understand the situation is particularly difficult, but i think everybody in the eu has some experience of that and without a doubt there is a need for us to work together.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, as the deputy prime minister, mr vondra, has said, the commission must ensure that the rules are applied, but, mr deputy prime minister, the member states must also cooperate, and i believe that with the pact on immigration and asylum, and thanks to the dynamism of your presidency, we will be able to do a good job together. i have noted in this debate the impatience of members, but it must be said that we are at the beginning of the implementation of the pact and that, as i said earlier, the legal framework is beginning to take shape and can serve as a point of support. now, of course, we must take advantage of this to achieve a community asylum policy and a community immigration policy. we need a more united europe. i have just listened to mr busuttil, and it is true that, in view of the influx of immigrants and also of asylum seekers, member states like malta find themselves in extremely difficult situations. europe must take the necessary measures to ensure this solidarity. this is absolutely essential. i would also like to say that we are trying to help as much as we can with the european refugee fund. but i say to monica frassoni that there is probably a mistake, because the european return fund cannot be used, under any circumstances, for the registration of roma. it's not possible. that's not the purpose of this fund. in any case, when i go to lampedusa, as i did to malta, i shall see how the financial aid we put at the disposal of the member states is being used. so i would like to say that we are going to be very careful now. finally, we have a strong legal framework which will enable us to do much more than before on reception conditions. i also hope that a more united europe will improve the situation of these immigrants and especially of those asylum seekers who deserve our full attention. i would like to reply to margie sudre, because she has explained very well the extremely worrying situation in mayotte. what she said was correct: the french authorities have informed us that a new centre with 140 places will be opened in 2010. the comoros has also been a member of the european union since the beginning of the year, and has been a member of the european union since the beginning of the year. in general, i must say that we need this policy of partnership with the countries of origin. this is the condition, mr vice-premier, for us to be able to relieve some member states of this very strong migratory pressure, which is indeed causing problems for a number of them. but i think that by being very united, the european union can respond to this demand for a more concerted management of migration flows, to the benefit, of course, of the women and men whom we must never forget and who are in very painful situations.
the next item is question time (b6-0006/09). the following questions are addressed to the commission.
member of the commission. − one month ago, parliament adopted a resolution on the proposal for a directive on the procurement of defence and security equipment. this means that the proposal has successfully completed first reading and will shortly be adopted by the council. the new directive is a major step forward towards the establishment of a common european defence market. it will introduce fair and transparent procurement rules applicable throughout the union. this will enhance the openness of defence markets between member states to the benefit of all. european industries will get a much larger home market and become more competitive; our armed forces will get better value for money, which will help to improve europe’s defence capabilities; and last but not least, taxpayers will benefit from more efficiency in public spending. one of the controversial issues during the debate on the directive were ‘offsets’ – that is, economic compensations for defence purchases from foreign suppliers. some member states proposed to include in the directive a compensation system which will allow them to secure such industrial returns on defence investments. offsets aim at fostering the industry of the member state which purchases defence equipment abroad. as such they can lead to distortion of the internal market and implying discrimination against companies from other member states on the basis of the nationality of the supplier. the ec treaty prohibits discrimination on the grounds of nationality, and a directive, as secondary law, has to abide by the treaty. the legal service of the council confirmed in its opinion of 28 october 2008 that, and i quote, ‘restrictive procurement measures designed to promote domestic industry do not comply with the general principles of the ec treaty’. consequently, offsets on defence procurement can only be permitted if they are necessary for the protection of essential security interests or justified on the basis of an overriding requirement of general interest. economic interests, by contrast, are not sufficient. the vast majority of member states and parliament agreed with this assessment. so there was not only a legal obligation, but also a political consensus not to accept in the directive compensations directed at fostering national industries. accordingly, neither the commission in its proposal, nor the colegislators, namely the council and the european parliament, included specific rules on offsets in the text of the defence directive. the defence directive does, however, offer alternatives to offsets. member states which are principally purchasers of defence equipment usually seek to justify their wish to have offsets either with security of supply needs or with the necessity to open up defence markets for their smes. the defence procurement directive will satisfy these concerns. on the one hand, it allows the contracting authorities to ask tenderers for specific commitments to satisfy their security of supply requirements. on the other hand, it contains provisions on subcontracting which make it possible to require tenderers to open up their supply chains to eu-wide competition and facilitate access for smes, as this will contribute to reconciling the legitimate security and economic interests of member states that are purchasers and avoid the need to have recourse to compensations or offsets.
member of the commission. − i certainly can recognise political consequences, and i recognised the phrase that we are in an election year. however, as the honourable member will know, in this particular directive, which has gone through the system, these matters were considered and the consensus was for member states and the european parliament not to go down that particular route. it was heavily debated in the various working groups, but the consensus, for the reasons i have outlined in my formal reply, was not to go down the route that the honourable member suggested. for the reasons i outlined earlier, i would be very positive about what we have achieved in these compromises, and they are in the best interests of all the economies in europe.
member of the commission. − as mrs mcguinness would be aware, at the european council meeting in december last, the european heads of state agreed that a shorter period could be applied for getting tenders in 2009 and 2010. this is actually in conformity with the flexibility offered in the existing directives, because, in the difficult economic circumstances in which all the economies of europe find themselves, the heads of state thought this was a proper way to go, and it is permissible under the existing directives. i am aware of the issues that the member raised regarding restricted tenders, but we review our public procurement directives periodically and i will make sure that mrs mcguinness’s comments are fed into the system.
question no 34 by david martin (h-0013/09) subject: eu-israel trade relations in light of the ongoing military action in gaza, the excessive and disproportionate use of force by israel and in light of the thousands of civilian casualties and the killing of innocent palestinian citizens, in what way does the commission plan to reconsider its trading relations with israel?
vice-president of the commission. − the commission has strongly condemned the violence in gaza. this crisis proves once more that the israeli-palestinian conflict does not have a military solution. only negotiations with the full commitment of the parties can bring about a lasting solution. the commission welcomes the recent cessation of hostilities in gaza. it is vital that all parties make the current ceasefire permanent through the full implementation of un security council resolution 1860. a number of issues need to be addressed without delay, in particular the reopening of all crossings into and out of gaza, a sustained halt to rocket attacks against israel and an effective means to prevent arms-smuggling to gaza. now that the hostilities appear to have stopped, it will be important to resume talks aimed at comprehensive peace as soon as possible. the eu has called on its partners for help in driving the peace process forward. the immediate priority for the commission is to alleviate the humanitarian suffering of the population in gaza. trading relations between the eu and israel will continue. isolation, sanctions or any other forms of boycott would be harmful to talks and negotiations aimed at achieving a sustainable solution to the conflict. furthermore, while targeting israeli interests, they would also prove to be detrimental to the occupied palestinian territory, which is economically dependent on israel as a main destination for its exports and employment of its labour force.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his response and to welcome the fact that he repeated the commission’s condemnation of israel’s action. but, commissioner, all our trade agreements have a human rights clause in them. i, like many of my voters, fail to understand how, when a country admits it is using disproportionate military action against a civilian population – it deliberately targets schools, it deliberately targets the buildings of peaceful and neutral international organisations – we still do not believe it has breached its human rights clauses. when will a breach of human rights occur if not in these circumstances?
vice-president of the commission. − i must say that our whole policy towards this particular period of conflict in israel/palestine is that the commission is now focusing on humanitarian relief and helping the people in gaza, and all other questions will be considered later. there will be no change in our trade policy, and further developments depend on the circumstances. i know of course you can be provided with detailed information about the investigations which have been launched about the possible violation of human rights and crimes committed during this conflict. the commission is closely following these investigations and will, after these investigations are finished, make its mind up and will follow up on the developments and take the next decisions.
a lot of people have asked for further supplementary questions on this question. i can take only two within our rules and i am, therefore, bearing in mind who asked when, and political balance. i will, therefore, take supplementary questions from mr allister and mr rack.
commissioner, could i welcome the assurance that trade relations will continue, and could i encourage you not to be intimidated by the deluge of anti-israel propaganda and ask the commission to remember that, with israel being one of very few democracies in that region, it is important not to ostracise it or alienate it, which would not promote peace at all. nor would such action sit comfortably with the tolerance that the eu has shown to many very despotic regimes right across the world.
question no 35 by boguslaw sonik (h-0029/09) subject: internet safety programme decision no 1351/2008/ec oj l 348, 24.12.2008, p. 118. of the european parliament and of the council of 16 december 2008 established a multiannual community programme on protecting children using the internet and other communications technologies. in accordance with this decision, the commission is required to draw up annual work programmes as part of the ‘safer internet’ programme, which is designed to promote safer use of the internet and new communications technologies. given the threats posed by unlimited access to all these technologies and data, special attention needs to be paid to children and young people. the programme, which is to run from 1 january 2009 until 31 december 2013, has a budget of 55 million euros. will the commission give precise details of the plan of action and the costs of implementing the ‘safer internet’ programme in the coming years? who is eligible to apply to take part in the programme? how and on what activities will funds from the ‘safer internet’ programme be spent?
question no 36 by ingeborg gräßle (h-1043/08) subject: special adviser richard boomer and the heysel site since 1 april 2006 the belgian real estate entrepreneur, richard boomer, has been working as a special adviser to commissioner kallas on issues relating to buildings. his contract has now been extended. what led the commissioner to extend this contract? which decisions by the commissioner has mr boomer influenced? which internal meetings in the commission has mr boomer attended since the extension? it now seems that another belgian real estate promoter is seeking to bring pressure to bear to have some commission offices located on the heysel site in brussels. will the commission give its opinion on this site? what is the timetable for decision-making? when will the results of the architects' competition for the rue de la loi be announced?
question no 37 by liam aylward (h-1052/08) subject: euro note and coin counterfeiting could the commission provide information on the current situation with regard to the counterfeiting of euro bank notes and coins as well as an analysis of what the eu is doing to combat counterfeit fraud?
question no 38 by gay mitchell (h-1071/08) subject: efficient spending of the eu budget with the coming into force of the eu budget for 2009, how is the commission continuing to ensure that the money of the eu taxpayer is used to its maximum efficiency and waste kept to an absolute minimum?
question no 39 by manuel medina ortega (h-1036/08) subject: agreements with andean community countries in view of the institutional problems the andean community is currently facing, does the commission believe that a joint agreement with the andean community is still possible, or does it think that individual agreements with one or more can members would be more feasible?
question no 40 by avril doyle (h-1045/08) subject: the removal of the pmoi from the eu's terrorist list on 4 december 2008, the court of first instance (cfi) annulled the council's 15 july 2008 decision to maintain the people’s mojahedin (pmoi) on the eu terrorist list. the verdict emphasised that the pmoi's right of defence and effective judicial protection had been violated by the council which had also failed to prove that the pmoi was engaged in terrorism. the verdict added that the file submitted by the french government was not based on ‘serious and credible evidence’ and that it was in respect of individuals suspected of being members of the pmoi and not the pmoi itself. this verdict is the last of six rulings by the high court and the court of appeal in britain, as well as the cfi, in favour of the pmoi, all of which emphasise that the pmoi is not involved in terrorism and does not plan to engage in terrorism. what is the position of the commission which should safeguard the rule of law in this respect? what role has the commission in ensuring due process and natural justice for any organisation which finds itself in this position?
question no 41 by seán ó neachtain (h-1049/08) subject: future eu-iceland relations iceland is a member of efta, most of eu-iceland economic relations fall under the eea, iceland is an associate member of the schengen agreement and has many other trade, economic and social ties to the eu. the impacts of the financial crisis triggered some talk of iceland, while remaining outside the eu, joining the eurozone. what impact would such a move have on eu-iceland relations - notably in the fields of environmental and maritime/fisheries cooperation - and does the european commission have in place provisions to deal with such a development? is it possible that such a move - if it occurs - could be followed by similar agreements with other non-eu states?
thank you, commissioner, and thank you for helping us this evening with so many questions.
as the author is not present, question 51 lapses. we move to the next question, which was put by mr crowley, but mr ryan is going to substitute for him.
that concludes question time.
mr president, i have two questions for the commissioner. during this debate, many members and colleagues spoke of double standards, unequal obligations between the old and the new member states. what action are you taking against the old ones, that is to say the 15 member states which do not respect the copenhagen agreement? secondly, on the religious minorities, jews and muslims, on our continent, in our union: what measures is the commission taking to protect their faith, their law, their way of life?
mr president, on a point of order, members of this house will have different points of view about the question being debated, but you, as our president, have the right, and indeed the duty, to advise colleagues as to how they may express those views which they have the right to express. i believe that last statement contained elements which were very close to being defamatory of a government of the european union. i take exception to that. i think, if we look at our rules of procedure, the proper conduct of debates in this house does not permit members to use the sort of language to which we have just been subjected.
mr president, we have heard in this debate how latvia’s democracy, independence and all the decent norms of society were crushed by the two criminal dictators of the last century. latvia was invaded by stalin, then by hitler, and then by stalin again. the latvian population was then subjected to imprisonment, deportations and executions. stalin then imported not only russian speakers, but ukrainian speakers and belarusian speakers. all of us, including mrs ždanoka, would condemn stalin and his works today, but what do we do about it, commissioner? would you now publicly affirm, not only that you have no juridical right to make an intervention, but that all member states of the union should respect their full legal requirements as far as electoral law is concerned? i think that is important, not just for latvia, but for all our countries. surely the answer is that if you feel strongly about this, like those many russian-speaking latvians who have taken citizenship, you should take the citizenship of the country of which you are proud, where you were born and where you live. do not reject it. do not ask for privileges if you do not want to play your part. you can take citizenship. there was a palestinian exile who took latvian citizenship. if he could learn the language, i am sure that those russian-speaking latvians can do the same. of course we are reminded that the great majority have taken citizenship. if you are part of a country, i think you have rights and duties.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, an elephant lurks in the wings of this debate that we seem reluctant to identify. there is virtually no reference to it in this report and only a passing mention in the commission’s comprehensive strategy for achieving a climate change agreement in copenhagen. it is the fact that human population is growing at unprecedented and unsustainable levels. in the lifetimes of many of us here, population on this planet will have trebled. it continues to grow at the rate of 200 000 every day: 80 million a year. why does china need a new coal-fired power station every week? because its population has more than doubled in 50 years, it is continuing to grow fast, demand for energy grows with it, and chinese people want what we have in the west, and they have every right to that. the minister is flying to india today. population growth is even faster there and again they are turning to coal for energy. but this planet has finite resources. we need to slow and reverse our population growth. we must do so entirely through non-coercive means, and we must never arrogantly forget that those of us in the developed countries contribute vastly more to climate change than those in developing countries. the un population fund says that 380 women in the world become pregnant every minute of the day, and half of that number do not plan to do so. contraception must be available for all. women must have control over their reproductive lives: it is so preferable to the alternative of unsafe abortion. medical resources need improvements so that women can safely delay giving birth until a later age, but above all the issue must be on the political agenda. our refusal to place it there is the greatest folly. families everywhere should be talking about this. governments should be setting targets for population stability or reduction. admitting the central importance of population growth is key to addressing it, and we will not succeed in tackling climate change or achieving sustainable development if we fail to do so.
mr president, 500 years ago there was a consensus amongst learned men that the world was flat. they were wrong. in the 1970s, after three decades of global cooling, there was a consensus amongst scientists that we were facing a new ice age. they were wrong. in 1999 everybody believed that the millennium bug would create a global disaster by closing down computer systems across the world. weapon systems would fail, commerce would stop, aircraft would fall out of the sky. they were wrong. nothing at all happened. today we are told there is a consensus around catastrophic man-made global warming. it, too, is wrong. nor is it a consensus. the myth of consensus is a propaganda triumph for the alarmists, but repeated surveys both of the scientific literature and of working climate scientists show a wide range of views on both sides of the debate, with many believing that the jury is still out. it is true that the world has warmed slightly, although slowly and intermittently, over the last 150 years, but this is entirely consistent with well-established long-term natural climate cycles that gave us the roman optimum, the medieval warm period and the little ice age. there is clear evidence that, while the world has warmed slightly, other bodies in the solar system have also warmed. ice caps have shrunk on mars, yet nobody imagines that industrial emissions or 4x4s are to blame. we are now planning to spend unimaginable sums of money on mitigation measures which simply will not work and which, by damaging our economies, will deny us the funds we need to address real environmental problems. as a british journalist, christopher booker, has remarked, global warming alarmism is the greatest collective flight from reality in human history.
mr president, i add my thanks to mr florenz for his report but i think, amidst all the congratulations to the rapporteur and to the committee for its work, we need to face some cold facts: the eu is still doing too little, too late. i do not expect to be popular for saying so, but we need to be measuring the eu’s progress not against what other countries are doing, but against what needs to be done. against that measure we are still failing. we are failing in not bringing sufficient ambition to this debate. the latest science tells us we need to be reducing emissions by around 9% year on year. the targets set out in this report and in the eu’s climate package are simply not ambitious enough. we are failing in not bringing enough urgency to this debate. if we are not well on the way to a zero-carbon economy in the next eight to ten years we will have lost the opportunity to have halted the worst of climate change. we are failing in not being consistent. today we speak of renewables and energy efficiency. yesterday a majority in this house adopted the laperrouze report which proudly upheld the role of coal in europe. we are failing in giving the impression that the climate change debate is all about giving things up, about doing without things. we need to get much better at showing real political leadership and demonstrating that action on climate change will bring us a better quality of life. it is not about shivering around a candle in a cave: it is about a future that can be more positive and attractive than today’s. so i commend to you the idea of adopting a green new deal for europe, a way of addressing both the economic crisis and the climate crisis, with a major investment in energy efficiency and renewables, to create millions of new green jobs in europe. but that is not about kick-starting economic growth in a ‘business as usual’ direction. it is about an urgently-needed transition not to a europe based on the ever-increasing consumption of natural resources, but to a steady-state economy for europe; not more aggregate quantitative growth, but real qualitative development. that debate urgently needs to be begun, and the eu is very well placed to start it.
mr president, i want to raise a voice of concern and caution in this frenzied debate about climate change, particularly as it could affect food production. we are told that the world population will spiral to nine billion by 2050, thus food production must correspondingly increase. yet within this proposed climate change package we have emission-reduction demands which, if met, would reduce food production when we need it most. i refer in particular to the targets on methane and nitrous oxide, and the assault on meat and dairy consumption. these reduction targets cannot be met without serious diminution in food production. faced with the choice of feeding the world or ticking climate change correction boxes, i am afraid i am on the side of common sense and necessity.
mr president, we head now to copenhagen, and my honourable friend’s excellent report is a good – if i dare say it – road map, or rail map, on how we should get there. twenty per cent by 2020 was a start – but only a start. the package of climate measures that we have taken perhaps could have been better, but they were a start – they were a step forward. now, with the changes in administration in the united states, we can no longer hide behind the united states’ refusal to cooperate. with the obama presidency, we have the opportunity to stop exchanging words and start exchanging ideas. we hear that a meeting will take place on 6 march 2008. the following week we are back here and i hope we will have a statement from the council on the result of its meetings in washington. with the united states, we can now move to that 30% target and beyond. we are moving on now to ecodesign, realising here, as elsewhere, that it means tremendous new opportunities in innovation and jobs. we need to move on to shipping and to agricultural emissions. the commissioner has referred to the urgent need to talk to the low-income countries in the developing world. they will be devastated, but they did not cause this problem. islands will sink beneath the waves; malaria, respiratory disease, skin cancer and eyesight problems are already happening. devastation will come to agriculture. they must take action, but they need our help. scientists, of course, can be wrong and so can politicians, as we saw with mbeki and aids. i may be wrong about the possible flu pandemic. i may be wrong about the probable impact of global warming. however, the majority of scientists may be right; the majority of politicians may be right. i and we will be culpable on both issues if i and we fail to take action to ensure that neither happens.
madam president, as this is the end of the work by the temporary committee on climate change, i want to thank, firstly, karl-heinz florenz for his work, but also – from my own group, the socialist group – riitta myller, dorette corbey and our chair, guido sacconi. they have all done an excellent job and provided a good basis for the work in the future parliament. the report before us is long; it makes many points. i would just like to highlight one point, which some people have already touched upon, and that is the important link that we need to make between jobs and tackling climate change, and between getting out of the economic crisis and tackling climate change. because, if we do not make that link and we do not get the economic recovery programmes right, people will start to say – and they are already saying it – that this climate change stuff was all very well when there was economic growth but we cannot afford to make all these investments now. we have to argue very strongly, as people have here, that we cannot afford not to make those investments. i think those who talked about bankrupting their countries by doing this are very wrong. their countries will become bankrupt unless we invest in renewable energies and unless we reduce our energy dependency on insecure sources of fossil fuels. so we have to get this package of measures right. president obama has already made this link in his talk about the economic recovery programme for the united states, and we need to do it here. dorette corbey talked about what can be done in the way of energy efficiency measures. if i look around my own constituency, yorkshire, i can already see considerable investments in renewable technologies, in energy-efficiency measures in different companies. now we have plans to develop carbon capture and storage in many of our power plants and major industries. this will create jobs and it will also help us cut our emissions, which of course is the object of all the work we have been doing.
a uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte roimh an tuarascáil chinntitheach chríochnúil ón uasal florenz agus ón choiste um athrú aeráide. tá an t-athrú aeráide ag tabhairt dúshláin dár ndearcadh maidir le hiompar, le húsáid talún, le bainistíocht dramhaíola, le hobair tógála agus le húsáid fuinnimh. níor chruthaigh an domhan i mbéal forbartha na coinníollacha atá ár dtarraingt i dtreo damáiste dho-iompaithe, ach is iad féin is mó atá ag fulaingt. caithfidh an eoraip a bheith ina ceannródaí agus dul i gceannas ar na beartuithe réadúla, riachtanacha ar bhonn idirnáisiúnta. rinne fórsaí nach bhfuil comh forásach sin iarracht an laghdú eacnamaíoch a úsáid mar leithscéal ar mhaithe le gan na gealltanais aeráide riachtanacha a chomhlíonadh. tá sé seo gearr-radharcach ar fad. ar an drochuair, i mo dháilcheantar féin, tá an taire comhshaoil, sammy wilson, ar dhuine de na polaiteoirí gearr-radharcacha seo atá gan tuiscint ar na réaltachtaí eolaíocha agus praiticiúla a théann le hathrú aeráide. tá súil agam go dtiocfaidh an taire ar a chiall agus go dtabharfaidh sé faoin cheist, rud atá an chuid eile don eoraip ag brú chun tosaigh cheana féin.
madam president, a mystique bordering on a religious creed has grown up around this alleged global warming. the environmental scientist has had a field day, but the natural world obeys the laws of physics and chemistry, subjects which i taught for 39 years. the global warming theory has cast co2, a natural constituent of the atmosphere, as a demon gas. it does have the effect – slightly – of trapping heat around the world, but how? you need to draw a graph showing how co2 perhaps causes warming. is it an arithmetic graph – i must become technical – where equal rises in co2 cause equal rises in warming? is it an exponential graph – a runaway – where co2 in extra amounts causes an ever-increasing rise in global warming? or is it a logarithmic graph, where extra amounts of co2 cause less and less extra warming, eventually becoming a flat line? i suspected it to be the last, and the hadley centre, the uk’s leading authority on this subject, confirmed that it is the last graph. we are nearly on the flat line, if not already there. extra co2 will have no more effect. there is no problem.
in writing. – i welcome the florenz report on climate change which aims to formulate policies for keeping global warming below 2° compared to pre-industrial times. i particularly welcome the call for a 20% improvement in energy efficiency, the call for binding targets for agriculture and the demand for the creation of a european climate fund. these proposals plus the measures already adopted by the eu put us in a strong position to argue for global action on climate change at the copenhagen summit.
mrs svensson, i can confirm that the president will write accordingly.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
thank you mr. rack, we will remind the services.
madam president, i did, in the end, vote for this report because, as a whole, we are all in favour of preserving our environment. that is a noble tradition of my party – the conservative party in britain – but i think i have to put two riders to it. the first rider is that we can only have a proper policy on climate change if everybody joins in. it is simply a waste of time for the european union, or an individual country, to have a policy. so we have to involve the countries of asia. the second rider is that, in the uncertain times in which we live, a policy of climate change has to be tempered with the need for energy security. we face a situation in the world today where all of our countries need a ready supply of energy. that must be predominant because, without it, the economies and the welfare and the well-being of our people will not be sustained.
madam president, i voted for this report because i feel, for the first time, that the european union is in synchronisation with the united states. president obama has been elected to office saying that he is going to put the environment first in his programmes. but i do not know whether my constituents will accept that we are actually going to make any difference. even if the united states and the european union act in concert to limit the emission of carbon, we must consider what will happen if we do not do enough to encourage the emerging india and china to do the same – by transfer of technology and by helping the chinese and the indians to find the most modern low-carbon technology that we can export and help them to partner. the fact is that, as we speak, china is making the production of carbon-intensive coal-fired power stations come on stream every two weeks. so how are we helping ourselves limit this thing without helping the transfer of technology?
madam president, once again we see the european union inhabiting a virtual world – a world that exists only in parliament resolutions, in commission communiqués and in council press releases. we condemn global warming, yet our monthly peregrination between brussels and strasbourg generates hundreds of thousands of tons of greenhouse gases. we cant about sustainable land use, yet the common agricultural policy encourages the felling of hedgerows, the use of chemical-based fertilisers and the dumping of surpluses on vulnerable third world markets. we preach conservation, yet the common fisheries policy has created an ecological calamity, wiping out what ought to have been a great, renewable resource. colleagues, do you not think our voters have noticed? do you imagine that, like descartes’s malicious demon, you can manipulate their reality by controlling their perception? the fact is that our voters saw through us long ago, which is why, at every opportunity, they vote ‘no’. if you think i am wrong, prove me wrong. put the lisbon treaty to a referendum: pactio olisipiensis censenda est.
madam president, i abstained on this important vote in this parliament. i am, of course, not in favour of illegal immigrants coming into our countries and taking the jobs of those who have paid their taxes and paid their way over time, but i think the responsibility here should rest not principally with employers but with the national governments of the individual countries. it gives me the chance, by that abstention, to put on record my view that our present british government has failed lamentably to have a proper immigration policy in our country – an immigration policy that tracks those coming in as well as those going out, that ensures there is fairness between those who are entitled to come in and those who are not, and, above all, a policy which will maintain good race and community relations, based on the fact that the people of britain feel there is a right and proper balance between those who come in, those who are here and those who go out.
we voted on the report, we did not take the final vote, so people may well wish to express themselves on the earlier votes.
madam president, the right to determine who may cross your borders and settle on your territory is a defining attribute of statehood. for years this parliament has been seeking to bestow that attribute of statehood on the european union, doing so without the consent of the voters and, in so far as one can judge from the results of the french, dutch and irish referendums, in the face of active opposition from the voters. the question of illicit migration ought to be a national prerogative and the question of sanctions against employers of illicit entrants ought certainly to be reserved to the member states. if the european union wants to extend its jurisdiction into this field it ought first to secure the wholehearted consent of the people for the legal basis on which it intends to do so. that means putting the lisbon treaty to a referendum. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
madam president, this is a dreadful piece of legislation. it is dreadful, because it criminalises the employer and does not criminalise the illicit immigrant. it is nonsense. this will create a sense of foreboding among all employers whenever they have to employ somebody. can you imagine what will happen when a potential employer looks at a potential employee and starts asking questions which are of a very intrusive nature? in addition, this has nothing at all to do with the european union. this ought to be a matter for national legislation and national governments – for the national parliaments of individual member states to decide whom they want and do not want in their countries. to criminalise national employers at a time of deepening recession is absurd. this piece of legislation should never see the light of day.
madam president, i remember a lecturer once saying to me, when i was a young master’s student, that technology offers many solutions, but, if you want to achieve things, you often need political and managerial will to achieve your goals. here it is once again in the european parliament. we talk about climate change. we talk about energy efficiency. yet, let us remember that 12 times a year we move this house from brussels to strasbourg, not to mention the extra buildings that we have in luxembourg. not only does that cost the taxpayers of europe an extra eur 200 million a year, but it emits 192 000 tonnes of co2 – equivalent to 49 000 hot air balloons. so it is time for politicians in this chamber to stop emitting their own hot air over energy efficiency and climate change, cut out the hypocrisy and close down the strasbourg parliament.
madam president, i reluctantly supported this, though i would have preferred not to have voted for it. the reason is that we cannot create efficiency without competition. competition is the prime driver of efficiency in any market – energy or whatever – and here we are using a tool – technology – across the european union to drive an energy efficiency market. surely we should drive energy efficiency through competition in the european union. had we done so and had we looked at how we can compete with each other to increase our energy efficiency, we would have the best efficient energy market in the world. that is why i said i voted for this reluctantly.
madam president, before we bid goodbye to guantánamo by a combination of a resolution of this parliament and the executive decision of the president of the united states – a wicked combination of naked power – let me just put on record two facts. first of all, guantánamo was set up in order to protect all of our citizens. as far as the united states was concerned, it worked. since 9/11 there has not been one single act of terrorism on the united states mainland. as he goes into retirement, let us salute the record of president george w. bush as far as that is concerned. i realise i have spoken the ultimate heresy in this house by saying it, but it is true. secondly, let us remember too that, although we have been pretty free with our advice to the americans, let us see what europe does now to take the burden-sharing of some of these prisoners and protecting our people from future terrorist attack. i will not be holding my breath.
madam president, ever eager to jump on any passing bandwagon, today the european parliament demanded that member states throw open their doors to guantánamo detainees, on the very day when security services reveal that mullah sakir, who was released last year, is now in the high command of al-qa’ida and directing attacks on british and nato troops in afghanistan. on that very day, we declare the eu is an open house for such terrorist activists. are we mad? remember, once admitted and regularised as citizens, such people can move freely through every member state in the eu. i trust those who voted for this madness will stand over it when it all goes wrong.
madam president, for years this house has criticised the united states over the suspension of civic freedoms inherent in the maintenance of the secure facility at guantánamo. mine was among the voices raised in concern. i accepted – unlike some in this chamber – that these were difficult and sensitive issues. a number of detainees were released only to be recaptured on the battlefields of afghanistan. one blew himself up in a market in iraq, killing dozens of people. nonetheless, some principles are absolute and ought not to be sacrificed to expediency. one such is the principle that no one should be detained without being accused of an offence. colleagues, we prefaced each of our resolutions on guantánamo with protestations of goodwill. we spoke, we insisted, as friends of the united states. well, here is our chance to vindicate that boast. the us administration, in doing what we have long urged, asks our assistance. not to tender it would be mean, inconsistent, hypocritical and self-defeating.
madam president, those of us who believe in freedom, individual liberty and the rule of law have for years sought to persuade our american friends to close guantánamo bay, or the detention there. so the country that calls itself the leader of the free world cannot put aside those values for its convenience, albeit understandable security concerns. now that president obama has announced the closure of guantánamo bay, we should be helpful in any way we can. however, it is not for the european union to determine who enters the european union countries. it should be for member states, and let us call upon the member states of the european union to do their bit to help our american friends at this time. they have shown the will. they have listened to us. it is about time we listened to them, just as the european political élite should listen to the voters when, in referendum after referendum, they have rejected the lisbon treaty. it is time for us to listen to the voices that count.
madam president, magna carta and habeas corpus are the bedrocks upon which the american constitution was written. they are also the bedrock upon which the laws of my country have been written. you cannot charge someone and lock him up without accusing him and having a trial. however, year after year in this parliament, we condemned president bush for what he did with guantánamo bay. now we have a situation where president obama has, quite correctly, decided to do away with it. when the american executive president has listened to what we have had to say, surely it is up to us to encourage member states to take on the burden of our american allies. however, that is not a matter that this parliament can dictate to other parliaments. it is for the national parliaments to decide that it is in their interests to help the americans in their time of need.
in writing. − british conservatives welcome the broad thrust of the report of the temporary committee on climate change. we believe that the report offers a significant contribution to the debate, which will lead to an effective international agreement on climate change in copenhagen in 2009. we support in particular the aim of ambitious medium and long-term emission reduction targets, the promotion of renewable energy and increased energy efficiency, and the call for a sustainable approach to forestry, rainforests and deforestation. we also believe that a low-carbon economy will trigger greater innovation, which will create new and competitive businesses and new jobs in the fields of clean technology, renewable energies and green enterprises. however, we cannot support the concept that the european security strategy and the european security and defence policy have a role to play in tackling the effects of climate change. we also strongly oppose references to the lisbon treaty, in particular those which suggest that the competences of the european union in the field of climate change are not already sufficient. we believe that the eu has all the powers that it needs to help the peoples of europe work together to succeed and lead by example on climate change.
in writing. − climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing the world today. i am in favour of energy-efficient light bulbs, but frankly it is not enough! we will all have to make and put up with changes to our lifestyle and lives that are far more drastic and dramatic. i was recently asked at a public meeting in cheltenham in my constituency what i thought was the most important thing that could be done to combat global warming and climate change. my response was clear: ratify the lisbon treaty. without a strong powerful eu with competence in common foreign and security policy i do not believe we will get the us and japan, china and india, to take the necessary measures. the backing and encouragement of a powerful eu speaking with a single voice will do more to combat climate change than millions of energy-efficient lightbulbs.
in writing. − i support this report which reinstates the eu's short-term commitment of reducing emissions by 30% by 2020 if there is an international agreement. it also reinstates the target included in the bali roadmap, that industrialised countries should reduce emissions by 80% by 2050. i welcome this report which urges the commission and council to adopt a leadership role in the upcoming post-kyoto talks in copenhagen and calls for minimum eu energy-efficiency standards for new and refurbished buildings. the report calls on econfin to introduce reduced vat rates for renewable energy and energy-saving products. i support the call for economic incentives such as a carbon trading system for countries to protect their tropic rainforests, and a call for energy efficiency measures to be adopted at local and regional level to combat energy poverty.
in writing. − this report tackles key issues relating to climate change, such as a call to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, promote renewable energy sources and improve energy efficiency. we are currently facing a situation where the effects of climate change and global warming are creeping up on us faster than we had previously imagined. for this reason, it is imperative that environmental policy remains a top priority for the eu and individual member states. along with the climate and energy package adopted in december, the eu clearly now leads the way in terms of environmental legislation and is in a position to encourage countries outside of europe to follow suit and promote policies which seek to tackle climate change. we simply cannot afford to ignore this issue and wait fifty years to see what the consequences may be.
in writing. − the targets set by the eu to reach a coordinated reduction are vital if there is to be corresponding change for the better in our environment. i voted to improve the structure of this coordination by use of a variety of sources – including the beneficial effects of safe nuclear energy production – all of which needs to be reviewed in the light of advice from national inspectorates and changes in technology. given that funding is necessary i voted too in favour of ets auctioning revenue to be used to meet the costs of any changes needed. this includes investment in new technology. an emissions trading scheme for aviation, whilst it may have only a marginal effect, is still an appropriate way ahead.
in writing. − the debate on an integrated policy on climate change is vital if we want a 50% cut in carbon emissions by 2050.
in writing. − i support the introduction and enforcement of sanctions against employers of illegally resident immigrants. this report includes minimum rules for criminal sanctions against employers, and inspections are to be made in the sectors of activity most open to abuse, though in scotland we are already protected by the immigration, asylum and nationality act 2006.
in writing. − the importance of energy efficiency and its contribution to meeting our climate change targets cannot be underestimated. energy efficiency programmes have the potential to create jobs.
in writing. − for many meps the existence of the guantanamo bay prison became a stick with which to beat america. personally, i am grateful that the united states yet again took on a disproportionate responsibility for protecting europe from terrorism. nevertheless, i accept that guantanamo bay prison should close. that’s not because i think that violent terrorists don’t need to be locked up; quite the opposite, in fact. but clearly the legal issues surrounding the detention of enemy combatants need to be resolved, and the best way of doing so is by closing camp x-ray. much as i admire and support america, it must be said that the inmates of guantanamo are essentially america’s responsibility, not ours. they were captured or arrested under american command and should therefore be prosecuted for and detained for alleged offences against america, under american law and on american territory. i don’t support the idea of eu member states taking responsibility for these extremely dangerous terrorists. however, nor do i think the eu should tell member states what to do in this regard. i therefore voted to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. − while welcoming the decision to close guantanamo, i am concerned by the willingness of european countries to admit former detainees who may maintain terrorist links. given the policy of free movement of people within the eu, the actions of one european country may have repercussions for others at a time when we already face complex terrorist problems. furthermore, our ability to deport a terrorist suspect is constrained by international conventions (such as echr) whose revision is overdue.
in writing. − all eu member states must play their part in making possible the closure of the guantánamo bay prison. it is no good calling on the americans to close the place, which the new president is doing, if we cannot shoulder some responsibility.
madam president, i should like to thank mr lagendijk, whose great political skills have produced a wonderful resolution for us to work from. i thank him particularly for accepting paragraph 26, to which i wish to draw the minister’s and the commission’s attention. here we note the exceptional ill-health of 1 500 roma people, who are sitting on the edge of a lead mine and have been there through un misjudgement for nine years. i fully accept that, as minister vondra has said, this is perhaps not quite the mission of the european union. nonetheless, i thank the commission team for picking up this topic immediately i raised it and for visiting and for seeing the damage that the lead levels have caused. these people have monstrous lead levels in their blood, irreversible damage, and need immediate and urgent relocation and medical treatment. minister vondra, you promised that you would keep this parliament fully briefed. may i ask you, as president-in-office, to give this matter your profoundest attention and to tell me what you do.
madam president, i welcome today’s debate and resolution as the next step in the normalisation of relations between the european union and kosovo one year after independence. it is important to stress that those, like mr van orden and mr tannock of the british conservatives, who oppose the move, have been proved wrong, with now 54 countries – including 22 of our own european member states – offering legal recognition, and our own eu rule of law mission has been deployed with the assent of serbia. indeed, all along we have argued that a resolved kosovo helps serbia’s eu aspirations, and today we repeat that we want them to succeed. yesterday, the eu justice mission opened its first war crimes trial in kosovo. today, her royal highness princess anne of britain is visiting a school for disabled children in gjilan, kosovo. surely, both together demonstrate europe’s commitment never to forget past injustices but to work today towards a better future for all.
mr president, the international rush to recognise kosovo was, in my view, hard to understand. there were plenty of older disputes to resolve that were worthier of the eu’s efforts: kashmir, for example, or taiwan, or even somaliland in the horn of africa. kosovo’s declaration of independence has also exposed a schism amongst member states. there is no way kosovo can be part of the european union or the united nations while some member states do not recognise its sovereignty. the precedent of kosovo also provoked russia’s indignation and recognition of the georgian regions of abkhazia and south ossetia as states last summer. the people of the various parts of former yugoslavia clearly have a right to live in peace and prosperity. we in the european union have a moral duty to help, but this assistance should never be open-ended. we need to see real reform in kosovo, genuine efforts to combat organised crime and people-trafficking, and proper protection and equality for minorities, such as the serbs. the commission and the council must remain vigilant and insistent on tangible progress.
mr president, nissan has announced the loss of 1 200 jobs at its sunderland plant in my north-east england constituency. that is about a quarter of its workforce, and to that will be added an as yet unknown number of jobs in its supply chain. nissan’s sunderland plant is widely acknowledged as the most productive in europe. if the plant with the highest productivity in europe needs to lay off a quarter of its workforce, then heaven help us when this crunch fully hits the less productive. a recovery task force has been set up in my area involving all major regional actors. the measures they are planning – assisting job search, training and retraining, starting small companies, assisting self-employment – are all ideally suited for support from the european globalisation adjustment fund. i welcome the commission proposals to simplify that fund. it needs to be urgently simplified and mobilised on a massive scale as part of a coordinated european response to the crisis in the car industry. only a tiny fraction of that fund was used last year. let us not hoard it. let us put it to work to put our people to work.
mr president, you could have guessed what these reports would say. we have got a problem and the european union has got to give its opinion. it has got to give the impression that it is in the driving seat to solve the problem. so we have a european economic recovery plan of which the car industry is a part. but in reality each manufacturer is going to look after itself as best it can, and each country will look after its manufacturers as best it can. there is of course a possible case for some support, some financial support to the car industry and other sectors to keep capital intact and to keep skills intact. but this can only be decided at the national level because the support – apart from the european investment bank mentioned by mr verheugen – can only be provided by national taxpayers. but there is one thing that the european union could constructively do here, at least until the recession is over, and that is to give car manufacturers a break from environmental restrictions. the industry is already in serious trouble. these environmental and other standard restrictions make cars more expensive. you are helping to kill off an industry which is already in serious bother.
mr president, yesterday in my home city of birmingham we held a car crisis summit. i was sorry i was unable to be there because i started work in the automotive industry 40 years ago. i have been through many crises, but nothing like this. there has never been a situation where sales have collapsed so quickly. i want to say to my green colleagues that if they go and look at the unsold cars they will find that the smaller, lighter, greener models are of a higher proportion sitting out there. this is not a failure of business models: it is a failure of the whole economic system. one of the statistics from our summit – from professor david bailey in our birmingham business school – estimates that 300 000 consumers in the united kingdom were refused a car credit application over the last six months. now some of them would probably have been refused any way, but that is the nature of what we are facing. as regards some of the things we have talked about – and i agree entirely with what stephen hughes said about nissan, and he knows them very well – we can do things at a national and a european level to help the industry through this restructuring. it is much better to help the industry keep those core people on the payroll and retrain them than to let them go and then to hire them back again later. we have the incentives to invest in those new cars that ms harms and others want. the fact that the greens are talking about electric cars as being a solution shows simply how out of touch they are with the real world – those are 10 or more years away, and we all know that. the problem is actually getting buyers and demand back into the economy. we need to tackle credit; we need to help public buyers back into the market to buy the green buses, the green trucks, the green cars – after all, there will be things following through there. we do not want a competitive race between businesses. mr vondra was absolutely clear that this is a single market, and we do not want competitive activities there. but, above all, we need to face up to the fact that the car dealers have to be out there selling and looking after cars. my final point is to you, commissioner, and you talked about ms kroes working on this earlier: please tell ms kroes to take off the table this entirely unwanted and destabilising proposal to change the whole structure of dealer contracts. nobody has asked for it, and we do not want it.
mr president, it has been stated already that citizens of the union travel widely. well, there are approximately 180 million trips made outside of the european union every year, and – in theory – they are protected under article 20, as the commissioner and indeed the council presidency have already provided for in this debate. under article 20 there is a requirement for member states only to provide consular assistance to unrepresented eu nationals on the same terms as their nationals. this difference in approach between member states is recognised within the action plan of 2007 and 2009. of course, there needs to be a criterion as to when and how other consular services should become involved, and these break down basically into three. i am not going to go through them, but the first two are perfectly sensible. the third puts forward a requirement for that citizen to provide proof of his or her nationality, either by means of passport, identity card or other document, for the diplomatic or consular representation to be provided. there is a real problem here, because for any european citizen who is fleeing a situation, it is perfectly feasible that they may not actually be in possession of such documentation. assistance is provided in the event of death, serious accident, serious injury, arrest, detention, assistance to be provided to victims of violent crime, and relief and repatriation of distressed citizens of the union. it is extensive but not exhaustive. more work needs to be done there. to make all this happen, we have heard about the concept of a lead state, which will endeavour to ensure that all eu citizens are assisted and that it will coordinate between member states. that is all very good in theory, but in practice i certainly did not see this happen in mumbai. there was no real sharing of information and intelligence, not the sort of cooperation i expected to see. instead i saw only competition between member states, and further centralisation or consolidation of consular services will risk taking away the flexibility missions require on the ground in rapidly changing circumstances.
mr president, mr guardans cambó and others such as mr karim and mrs mann have illustrated the gap between rhetoric and reality. we cannot even actually agree on what article 20 means. the minister, speaking in english, said that it was only an ‘entitlement’ and not a right, whereas mrs roure cited the french, which says ‘un droit’. but it is certainly in the charter of fundamental rights, where it is enshrined as a right. we will surely not make progress, unless it is legally confirmed that it is a right with binding eu decisions and common standards and the right to challenge a refusal of protection in the courts. the minister talked about co-location being under consideration of consular officials. my experience in the field of visa policy is that it is like pushing a boulder uphill trying to get member states to co-locate. commissioner verheugen referred to practical measures as being in development. but these were promised in the action plan in 2007: a reference in passports, posters, a website in development. where are these? i searched consular protection on the europa website and found nothing. on the council travel website it says ‘under construction’, which i think is a metaphor for the fact that we are failing our citizens in failing to put flesh on the bones of the promise of european citizenship.
you mentioned the review of the late payments directive, which i think is extremely important. i was concerned, though, that the consultation period for that finished at the end of august, just before the real financial crisis hit. had the consultation period been extended i think we might have got much more robust answers as a basis for a better review of the directive. is it worth considering whether we should open a further short period of consultation, so that we get the most up-to-date information possible, on which a review could then be based?
i just wondered, as a supplementary to this question, if, looking at the european union’s new proposals, or if the european union were to come forward with new proposals, he agrees that any such proposals should include moves to remove the inequities of the common agricultural policy so we can unlock the negotiations in nama and then unlock the negotiations on services, which account for about 70% of the eu’s gdp. would he also agree that it is time for the eu to show a true commitment to free trade?
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – cruthaíonn teagmhas na leibhéal ard déocsaineach i monaracha in éirinn deacrachtaí móra eacnamaíocha d'fheirmeoirí sa tuaisceart agus sa deisceart. is drochscéal é seo sa tréimhse dheacair eacnamaíoch atá ann faoi láthair. toisc gníomhú chomh gasta sin a bheith déanta is féidir leis an mhargadh a bheith ar a suaimhneas go bhfuil muiceoil na héireann slán. bíodh sin mar atá, níor chóir go mbeifí ag dúil leis go mbeadh orthu siúd a imríodh tionchar orthu déileáil leis na hiarmhairtí seo leo féin. tá a fhios agam go mbaineann cuid de na ceisteanna eacnamaíocha seo le coimisinéirí eile ach tá sé tábhachtach go n-ardófaí na pointí seo a leanas. ba í aidhm na scéime athghairme muiceola (sam) a d'fhógair rialtas na héireann i mí nollag 2008 ná muiceoil thruaillithe na héireann a bhaint ón margadh. bíodh sin mar atá, ach níl an chuma ar an scéal go bhfuil an scéim seo ag freastal ar na 4 000 muc thruaillithe a cuireadh chuig monarcha phróiseála muc vion, ar an chorr chríochach, contae thír eoghain, i mo dháilcheantar, idir an 1 méan fómhair agus an 6 nollaig 2008. ar an dea-uair, is féidir linn a rá gan chuntar go bhfuil muiceoil na héireann go hiomlán slán. mura bhfuil an mhonarcha seo i dteideal cúitimh faoi scéim tacaíochta an ae, mar sin de, tá fíorbhaol ann nach mbeidh sí in ann leanúint ar aghaidh. caithfidh an ae a chinntiú nach bhfágfar an mhonarcha phróiseála seo chun déileáil leis na hiarmhairtí mar gheall ar 4 000 muc thruaillithe a glacadh. mura mbeidh siad i dteideal cúitimh faoin scéim athghairme muiceola a aontaíodh idir an coimisiún agus rialtas na héireann, is gá scéim den chineál céanna a aontú idir an coimisiún agus an roinn talmhaíochta agus forbartha tuaithe sa tionól i mbéal feirste. i spiorad na dlúthpháirtíochta, ba chóir don choimisiún eorpach cómhaoiniú den chúiteamh riachtanach a cheadú dóibh siúd a ndeachaigh sé i bhfeidhm orthu. beidh 2009 ina bhliain dheacair do chách – ná déanaimis dearmad ar na fíorchúinsí speisialta a d'fhág cuid mhór san earnáil bia i gcruachás nár chruthaigh siad féin. soláthróidh airí sa tionól i mbéal feirste agus i rialtas na héireann straitéis shláinte ainmhithe uile-oileáin gan mhoill. tá gá le cur chuige uile-éireannach a bheith againn a théann níos faide ná sláinte ainmhí agus a chuireann san áireamh cur chuige rialúcháin aonair don oileán. is é sin le rá gur chóir go mbeadh rialacháin an ae á mbainistiú agus á gcur i bhfeidhm ar bhonn uile-oileáin. ghnóthódh gach feirmeoir éireannach i gcás mar seo agus mhéadódh easpa dúblála an éifeachtacht lena ndéanfaí monatóireacht ar rialacháin ae.
madam president, several farmers and a processing business in my constituency face millions of pounds of loss through no fault of their own because contaminated feed bought in good faith was supplied from a food mill where wanton disregard – never mind good practice – was shown. it is no surprise that there is considerable anger amongst those affected constituents. i have a series of questions for the commissioner. if they are not answered tonight, i would like them to be answered in writing if that is possible. firstly, what is the history of the culpable recycling feed mill in terms of compliance with eu regulations? is it a law unto itself as has been suggested? secondly, did millstream have a licence to use the oil in question? if not, was it not the responsibility of the member state to ensure that such defiance of basic regulatory requirements was discovered and dealt with? thirdly, was millstream implementing an haccp-based risk analysis and an auto-control plan as required by the food hygiene regulation? fourthly, is the commission satisfied with the level and frequency of inspections and supervision imposed by the member state on this plant and its produce, given the member state’s obligation to have a risk-based official control plan? was there negligence on the part of the irish authorities in enforcing with rigour the feed law and food safety requirements? fifthly, in my constituency legitimate food mills have to comply with rigorous controls and standards under quality assurance schemes. why was there no equivalent scrutiny of the millstream recycling? sixthly, was there any reliance upon self-certifying of safety of feed mills and, if so, why – since that should only be permissible on small-scale operators – was it allowed to apply here? finally, if i might, what is the precise legal basis upon which the commission agreed a large payout to the irish state, as initially the commission spokesman said that no such basis existed? will there be a follow-up in terms of infringement if that member state is found to be in breach of its requirements?
madam president, first of all can i say i welcome the opportunity for this debate. it has been brought home to farmers how vulnerable they are to what others do. this is something that occurred in the republic of ireland, but the ironic thing is that the waste oil which was the supposed cause of the problem originally came from northern ireland. but it manifested itself in the compound feed from the republic of ireland. the problem that has arisen as far as i am concerned is that the farmers in the republic of ireland, be they of pig or beef, have been compensated, aided and assisted by europe. farmers in northern ireland at this time stand high and dry with no help and no support. northern ireland farmers have been destroyed and many of them stand to lose their farms and be put out of business through no fault of their own. they have done nothing wrong, committed no offence, and i have to state straightforwardly to this house tonight, and to the commissioner, as far as i am concerned the farmers in northern ireland have been seriously let down, not only by our own department of agriculture, the dard as it is known in northern ireland, and most especially by the minister, who seems incapable, weak and unable to solve the problem. the minister of agriculture in the republic of ireland has shown clearly that he takes care of his own first. that i understand. can i ask this question to the commissioner: are you going to receive any information from an inquiry that is supposed to be carried out by the police both sides of the border? will you be prepared to act on the information that you receive, and will you be prepared to ensure that northern ireland producers have the same support as farmers in the republic of ireland and that they are not disenfranchised in any way financially? and, above all, and this is my last point, will you ensure that such a problem can never again occur? all this achieves is a loss of confidence for the consumer and above all else the destruction of the producer.
madam president, there is no dispute about the fact that the oil apparently came from northern ireland. that is not the issue. the pertinent point is that millstream chose to buy in that oil, knowing it was looking for oil to use in dryers – to deal with feedstuff, to dry the breadcrumbs – so why was it buying oil of that sort, no matter where it came from? why was it not checked by state inspectors and by the company itself? the use of oil in that circumstance is, as i understand it, illegal, a breach of the food and hygiene regulations. so where it came from is not the issue – it is why it came there and why it was used for the purpose for which it was used.
madam president, everybody agrees – no one denies – that, yes, the oil came from northern ireland. we cannot deny that. but, while we argue, there are eight farmers in northern ireland going out of business, and in the republic as well. they have suffered as well, i accept that. this is not political. this is ordinary people suffering, and it is our farmers who are suffering financially. the truth is – and we have to face up to this, and you, commissioner, have to face up to this – there were tonnes of pigmeat that were untraceable. nobody knew where it had come from, what pigs it came from or where it came from. commissioner, it is time, long past time, that you brought in straight, clear labelling of origin of where this comes from. at least if that had been the case, we would have known where we stood and where it is. i do not want to make this political because for me this is not political. i talk to my farmers every day, and some of these people are most probably going to lose their farms. so this is serious stuff. if we have to follow the legal investigation to its ultimate conclusion, i want to see that happen – but i want to see my farmers protected, and i do not want to see them sold down the river. i want to see them properly protected by you so that they get the same position and protection as farmers in the republic of ireland.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i will be no exception in offering my congratulations to my group colleague, friedrich-wilhelm graefe zu baringdorf, who has worked very hard on what must be one of the more technical dossiers we have dealt with. he has also displayed the wisdom of solomon in striking a balance between the needs of the consumers and the very legitimate needs of manufacturers for the protection of their product and their intellectual property. this is what i would call back home one of the more classic european parliament dossiers. looking at our guests in the visitors’ gallery, it is pretty safe to say that animal feed labelling is probably not one of the most glamorous subjects they could have heard us talking about today, but it is crucially important and it is a real example of where this parliament adds value, and where we can ensure our consumers’, our citizens’ and our voters’ faith in the food chain of the food they eat. it is important to remember where this issue came from. the bse crisis proved that what we feed our animals needs to be regulated. this regulation needs to be transparent, and there needs to be a balance struck between consumers’ needs and the needs of the manufacturers, but it can go wrong. it has gone wrong and we must ensure it does not go wrong again. this report is crucial in taking that forward. i have had numerous meetings with the industry in scotland, and with consumer groups and the farmers themselves, and there has been pretty well universal support and approval for the way that the commission and parliament have taken this forward and particularly for our rapporteur. this dossier does add value. it is a good example of parliament working. we often say that there has been good cooperation between the commission and parliament. on this one there really has been, and the fact that there are so few amendments being tabled to this report demonstrates that it will go through with a big majority. the parliament has had a good day today.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the commissioner and mr graefe zu baringdorf on their excellent work and the good cooperation we have had. let me say to the last two speakers and to the guests we have in the gallery: please eat your food safely this afternoon when you have your lunch, because, if we are to believe the last two speakers, there is nothing safe to eat anywhere as far as i can see! the whole idea of this legislation is to bring safety to the food we eat, and, of course, what our animals eat is essential because we eat those animals. i know it is a very simplistic approach to take, but that is exactly why we are here. yes, we have made mistakes over the years, and i would be the first to admit that the feeding of meat and bone meal back to cattle caused the bse problem – which was not anybody’s finest hour – and that is why we are bringing this legislation forward. the whole argument now is not about whether we should have transparency and have the ingredients on the label, because that is precisely what will be there. the manufacturers’ argument was to ask whether they had to put the precise percentages, because somebody could then turn round and copy that feed and make exactly the same feed. that is where the compromise and the work that mr graefe zu baringdorf, the commission and council have done is so good, because we have reached a situation now where we can really trust our feed. if you have looked recently at the problems that we have had in europe – and we have had problems in various countries with animal feed – this is not because the labelling system and the processes have been wrong, but because companies have broken the law. therefore, we must ensure not only that we get this law right but also that the commission and member states monitor this law and inspect the feed companies to make sure that they are not breaking the rules, because, again, people and consumers must have confidence in our food. i would say to you that european food is as safe as we can get it, but we must never let up, to make sure that our consumers are absolutely satisfied that what they are eating is safe. i would say to our guests: please go and have a good lunch and be assured that it should be safe!
mr president, in the aftermath of the dioxin contamination in the republic of ireland which visited such losses on innocent producers and processors in northern ireland, we discussed new measures on the labelling of feedstuffs. the obvious question for me is: would any of these proposals have saved my producers from their present losses? sadly, the answer is ‘no’. they will of course impose greater transparency, which is of itself all to the good, but only in respect of eu feedstuffs fed to animals within the eu, not in respect of feed fed to animals whose meat we then import into the eu. providing maximum detail on the precise composition of feedstuffs is right and understandable, but we must not so undermine intellectual property rights as to make them meaningless. in that respect i have some residual fears on aspects of these proposals. compound mixes are trade secrets built up over years of research and trial. they must be adequately protected. i trust that the 15% margin in description precision will be enough. i, for one, do not want to see feed mills in my constituency, which have worked hard and invested heavily in producing premium product, being gazumped and their intellectual property rights raided by manufacturers operating in cheaper production areas, either within or outside the eu. i trust this regulation will not be either misused or abused in that regard. yes, farmers are entitled to maximum information on compound contents, but within the confines of preserving the viability and the future of the mills from which they buy.
mr president, firstly, i welcome this report and wish to congratulate the rapporteur, who is to be commended for his report and hard work. we do indeed need transparency, and have to know what is in compound feed – there is no doubt about that. i have no problem with a company keeping its intellectual property rights confidential. however, recent events in the republic of ireland, with the dioxin problem, bring home very clearly to all of us the need for control. farmers can have the highest possible standards of livestock husbandry and do everything right, but, as we have witnessed, all can be lost when events way beyond their control destroy all their good and hard work. this is a good day for parliament, and it shows what we can achieve through cooperation. maybe it also shows what we can actually achieve within agriculture for a better future for farmers throughout the european union. i am pleased that commissioner fischer boel is here with commissioner vassiliou this morning, because it is very important that we make the point of the serious danger of farmers in northern ireland – eight farmers at this moment in time – losing everything because the local assembly has not been prepared to support them.
mr president, i very strongly support promotion of our high-quality food. in today’s difficult market the quality product is the best refuge, but it does need fulsome promotion. sixty per cent cofinancing would be good if it can be obtained, and i regret that the commissioner was unable to be as forthcoming as we hoped she would be in that regard. in respect of my own region i would very emphatically call upon the regional government – not one blessed with much initiative or with funds given how much it wastes on its top-heavy administration and needless cross-border bodies – to exert itself to draw down this eu funding, and thereby give our excellent local produce the best chance in the marketplace. along with what i hope will be 70% support from europe to promote food and vegetables to our schools, i trust this opportunity will not be lost by a lackadaisical local department.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report. commissioner, i would like to endorse what you said. i believe the future of european agriculture policy is very much with the market. we have got to go out there and promote our high-quality products. you mentioned the wine reform – previously we were taking a lot of low-quality wine out of the market, buying it into intervention and then making it into biofuel, which was absolutely the wrong way to go. what we should be doing is promoting quality food. we have got a great diversity of wines, cheeses, meats, olive oil, fruits, vegetables – you name it. europe is rich in all these and we must go out and market them in the future. i think, as we move beyond the health check into the new agriculture policy in 2013 and beyond, we have got to make sure that we use more money to promote our products and to link into the marketplace, because that is where the future lies. as one last comment, can i say to the commissioner that perhaps he should go to america and convince president obama that roquefort cheese is extremely good and that perhaps he can reduce the tariff that president bush put on it before he left office.
mr president, in november 2007 i visited uganda to meet with local entrepreneurs and local ngos. as we were leaving kampala on a dusty road, the driver drew my attention to some booths selling pre-paid telephone cards. he turned to me and said: ‘those telephone companies, those private companies, have done more to take people out of poverty in this country than any of your white, western ngos’. i thought that was a little unfair at the time, but it highlights the feeling that so many entrepreneurs have towards european union development policies. in fact, entrepreneurs in many poor countries have told me that they believe our aid programmes and our ngos actually have an interest in keeping them poor. i still think that is a little unfair, but it highlights the fact that we need to show that we are supporting entrepreneurs in developing countries, and one of the best ways to do that is through encouraging open markets globally.
mr president, i am delighted to be able to rise in support of mr schröder’s excellent report on this issue. economic partnership agreements are very key as a development instrument. it is trade, not aid, which is going to uplift poor countries from poverty. we are now in a global economic condition with the global recession where there are the beginnings of the whiff of protectionism coming from the developed world, especially from the united states, and i hope not from the european union. if we create a protectionist climate, then the whole question of trade, not aid, to help alleviate poverty will be blown off course and thrown out of the window. we do not wish the developing countries which do want to trade with us to be stopped by our own selfish needs which are misguided to protect our own markets. in the long term that would be a disaster for our economies.
mr president, whence comes our obsession with preserving multi-ethnic states regardless of the wishes of their inhabitants? kosovo had an unquestioned right to self-determination: it was expressed in a referendum with a participation rate and a turnout of more than 90%. however, by an extension of that logic, so, surely, have those kosovans of serb extraction, who are clustered conveniently close to the border with serbia proper. why not allow them also to enjoy self-government? we do it de facto, so why do we not do it de jure? the answer is because we would rather keep kosovo as a european protectorate – as a satrapy, such as it was in ottoman times. we forced on them a version of our 12-star flag and a version of our national anthem. we have a kosovan parliament and institutions subject to the overriding decisions of an appointed european commissar. we should allow the people of kosovo to have referendums on partition – if that is what they want – and on ethnic self-determination, and we should allow that same right to the subject peoples of the european union. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to explain my vote on the eu-china report. overall it was a very balanced report and i am very pleased that the rapporteur, on the whole, was able to stick to the issue – which was trade – rather than focus on a number of other issues that i know a number of colleagues wanted her to focus on. however, i did have one major concern about this report, which was the reference to trade defence instruments. we have to recognise that consumers in my country – britain – and in many other countries across the european union have benefited from open trade with china. it helped us at the time to fight perils such as inflation. however, protecting uncompetitive eu producers, at the expense of other parties who benefit, is something that we should tackle with care. we should make sure that we get the right balance and do not ignore the benefits of trade with china for consumers, companies with globalised supply chains and the retail sector. on the whole, trade with china is to be welcomed. eventually that will lead to all the other issues being tackled, such as better human rights and labour issues.
mr president, china is one of our most important trading partners. it also contains one quarter of the world’s population. for many years we have treated china as though it were some sort of small child that needed to be chided and argued about, as though we were some superior institution. we must not forget that china’s history exceeds ours by thousands of years. china has maintained her cultural traditions and her values. we want to have china as a part of our international community, but china is very important for the eu as a trading partner and the way we should treat china is as an equal partner with respect. if we do that, then china will not only listen to us, but will trade more with us, we will be able to invest more in china and china invest more with us. at the moment china has an enormous amount of money which will have to be invested outside china. the european union should be the place where they invest it.
in writing. − i support this proposal which seeks to simplify and enhance information programmes on agricultural products. i support this proposal because it will provide funding to third country markets to provide and improve the information on the quality, nutritional value and safety of foodstuffs and the methods of production.
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party abstained on this report not because we are opposed to enhancing the role of european smes in international trade, but because mrs muscardini has produced a trojan horse that contains within it unacceptable positions on trade defence instruments. we are disappointed that the commission has shelved the review because of difficulties in securing a consensus on the way forward. our view remains that there is an urgent need to amend the community’s trade defence regime so that it takes better account of developments in the global economy. lack of reform means that our industry is badly placed to take advantage of the benefits of globalisation. while we welcome the czech presidency’s inclusion in the work programme of improving the transparency of trade defence instruments, this is not enough.
in writing. − while we all acknowledge and support the role that smes play in international trade, it is a real shame that a large part of this report was dedicated to defending so-called trade defence instruments. in reality, tdis are being used by inefficient producers as a form of naked protectionism to shelter them from competition, not only from non-eu competitors but also from more efficient competitors across the eu that have taken advantage of globalisation and established global supply chains. tdis punish retailers and consumers who are forced to pay higher prices for goods that they could obtain at better value elsewhere. they also punish the most efficient and innovative smes. we all know of many smes in our constituencies that are punished by the very same tdis that this report seeks to praise. it is for this reason that conservatives reluctantly voted against this report.
in writing. − i commend this report as a wide-ranging and well-balanced report that effectively deals with the influence that the internet has had on cross-border trading. the internet has allowed even the smallest companies access to a global market previously unthinkable only a few years ago, boosting trade and allowing the positive aspects of globalisation to come to light. it has opened up new markets and broken down barriers to trade. the report has rightly pointed out that, although there has been a rise in fraud and counterfeiting, this should not be attributed to the internet itself, but rather regarded as an issue that existed before and that needs tackling in new and innovative ways, as long as this does not impinge on our civil liberties. it also points out that it should be viewed as an opportunity for cultural diversity rather than a threat. finally, it recognises that liberalisation of services connected to the internet, such as telecoms, has led to a boom in infrastructure investment, so i believe we should be cautious about applying further regulation on such industries, as the commission seems intent on doing at the moment.
in writing. − i welcome this report which highlights the new opportunities and new markets created by the nature and the technological development of the internet. it acknowledges the role which the internet could play for bridging the trade gap between north and >south, open up new channels connecting developing countries with advanced commercial systems, and increase their trade flows. the report states that this should facilitate the harmonious incorporation of developing countries into the world trading system, which i support.
in writing. − the recognition of kosovo as a sovereign state by many countries has probably created more problems than it will solve. i am sceptical as to whether kosovo was ready for independence. the fact that some eu member states will not recognize kosovo’s independence for fear of setting precedents within their own borders has further complicated kosovo’s future. the eu has now taken on primary responsibility for assisting kosovo internally. this commitment should not be open-ended either in terms of time or financial resources. genuine concerns exist about kosovo’s political stability, the extent of corruption, the influence internally and externally of organized crime and the treatment of minorities including serbs. it is vital that the eu institutions remain vigilant and ready to intervene if kosovo fails to live up to the high standards that must inevitably accompany sovereign statehood. notwithstanding my concerns, i gave my support to this resolution.
in writing. − members of this house will be well aware of my views in the past with regard not only to kosovo, but to the whole balkan region. the issue of kosovo in my opinion can only be solved through a consensual approach involving not only serbia primarily, but also neighbouring countries. there is a lot in this report that i can ally myself with, but the insistence that every eu member state should recognise an independent kosovo is not an area that i can support. independence for kosovo is something that can only be achieved by consensus and agreement with serbia. failure to recognise this is merely, in my view, harbouring problems for the future and raising an anti-serbian attitude in this parliament. therefore the passing of amendment 3 renders this resolution partisan and seriously undermines the rest of the text. this means that sadly i cannot support it.
in writing. − this report reflects china’s growing power as a trading nation. it also draws attention to trade between china and taiwan, which looks set to grow following the signature of cross-straits commercial agreements. closer economic ties between china and taiwan have the potential to facilitate a more positive approach to the wider issue of cross-straits relations. however, this détente makes little sense unless it is accompanied by taiwan’s integration into international organizations, especially those related to trade like the world health assembly and the international maritime organization. the parliament should voice strong support for the council’s declared policy of supporting taiwan’s meaningful participation in international organizations. the parliament should also press china on its continued reluctance to permit taiwan a voice on the international stage. the prosperity and health of the 23 million citizens of taiwan should not be held hostage for political purposes. given my support for taiwan’s meaningful participation in international organizations i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i support the recommendations in this report on improving market access to china, lifting barriers to trade by increasing accessibility of foreign companies in china and focuses on creating a level economic playing field.
in writing. − this report mentions china’s growing trade with taiwan, which i welcome. under president ma, taiwan has made great strides towards normalizing its trade relations with china and trying to end the obstructionist attitude that beijing’s communist rulers have previously taken towards commercial relations with taiwan. however, if taiwan is ever to be fully integrated with the regional economies of south-east asia it needs to be accepted into international organizations, regardless of whether or not it is recognized as an independent sovereign state. given various health scares in east asia in recent years related to the movement of goods and people – such as sars, avian influenza and the melamine milk scandal – it is essential that taiwan is given the status of observer at the world health assembly. such a move would strengthen cross-straits trade, drive up quality standards in the region and elevate taiwan on the international stage. the way that china has used its disagreements with taiwan to play politics with matters of public health is to be deprecated. so too is the shameful silence that so many people in europe keep in the face of china’s pressure. i voted in favour of this report.
author. − madam president, sri lanka’s bloody civil war seems finally to be coming to a conclusion. the ltte, which has been blacklisted by the eu as a terrorist organisation, must now surely lay down its arms and surrender. the eu and other co-chairs have urged the ltte to do so. the ltte’s response will show us whether it really has the best interests of tamils at heart. the ltte is using its front organisations in europe to maximum propaganda effect and raising money by extortion internationally. some ltte militants may even try to seek asylum within the european union. throughout this ferocious 26-year civil war, the ltte has pioneered atrocious terrorist tactics, such as suicide bombings, that are now used in many other parts of the world – regrettably. the sri lankan army has had, therefore, to deploy all the means at its disposal to counteract this brutal insurgency. however, it is clear that the casualty figures claimed by the ltte have been exaggerated. some have now been withdrawn – for instance the agence presse story of 300 civilians killed, after the supposed author denied authorship. nevertheless, the death of civilians in a war zone is tragic whenever and wherever it occurs. clearly the sri lankan armed forces cannot claim an unblemished record either, but they have not sought to deliberately exploit civilians and put them in harm’s way, like the ltte has allegedly done. if the war really is soon to be over, it is essential that sri lanka turn its attention now to post-conflict disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration. the marginalisation of tamils, at the expense of the majority sinhalese, needs to be addressed in an urgent and permanent manner in order to ensure a stable and sustainable multiethnic society with regional devolution. the eu should also ensure resources are put at sri lanka’s disposal to support post-conflict development. although we should support the government’s offer of amnesty for the majority of the ltte, it is vital that no one responsible for the most serious war crimes is allowed to get away with impunity.
author. − madam president, the socialist group in this parliament is formally refusing to take part in this vote on sri lanka. last month, parliament held a full debate, with council and commission statements, on the situation in gaza. on this side of the house, we attach the same importance to sri lanka and believe it deserved equal and proper discussion, but i regret that not one other group supported us in this stand. a short debate this afternoon with a handful of people on a thursday is an insult to the thousands of people under attack and dying in the north of sri lanka. we wanted to call, as in the joint usa and uk declaration from washington earlier this week, for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire by both sides, but the ppe refused to include that in the text. we wanted to condemn, unreservedly, the bombing of hospitals and aid workers, but mr van orden, negotiating for the ppe, refused to condemn it. that is why it is not in the resolution before you. to him – and presumably to dr tannock as well – everything the government of sri lanka says is a fact and just about every aid organisation on the ground, from the red cross to the un, can be dismissed. amnesty international today suggests the sri lankan army could be guilty of war crimes for its use of cluster bombs on a hospital – a 16-hour bombardment, according to amnesty international. the pse also wanted to condemn the murders of journalists and other media workers by government agents. paragraph 4 of the resolution asks the government – the very same sri lankan government – to investigate their own serious human rights violations. colleagues, some of you may want to associate yourselves and your groups with those kinds of sentiments, but we do not. vote for this text and you are condoning attacks on hospitals and ignoring allegations of war crimes. i note that mr van orden has not even had the courage to stand here and defend his bloody handiwork, but i am hardly surprised. in our negotiations, he just dismissed and laughed off as propaganda allegations of rape by sri lankan soldiers, so what you can expect? in the middle east, millions of people – including many jews – were outraged at what israel did to gaza, but that did not make them supporters of hamas. sadly, anyone who does not support the sri lankan government is labelled an apologist for terrorism and a supporter of the ltte. but our motion was critical of the ltte and their tactics. we do condemn their attacks and we do want them, the tamil tigers, to sit round the negotiation table, but this war must be stopped immediately. the government must end its military campaign that has brought – as others have said – humanitarian disaster to hundreds of thousands of ordinary people in the north of the island. sadly, this resolution does not call for an immediate end to the fighting, so we will not endorse that approach by taking part in today’s vote. we dissociate ourselves, president and colleagues, from this motion and i urge anyone else with the same views to do likewise.
madam president, i just want to add my support to the approach that robert evans has taken. i think it was mr posselt who described the conflict as a civil war and, sadly, the people who tabled this joint motion for resolution refused, according to my colleague, to term it a civil war. i want to add support to what previous speakers have said about an immediate ceasefire. the recent upsurge in fighting between the ltte and the government of sri lanka forces has worsened the situation, and an estimated 230 000 internally displaced persons are trapped in the wanni region as we speak. atrocities, such as the shelling of a ptk hospital, make the situation on the ground much worse and more perilous. it is a very sad day, but we cannot support this, and i hope in the next part-session we will see a greater debate with more people participating on this very serious situation in sri lanka.
madam president, mr evans makes a speciality of getting his facts wrong and so it has impelled me to stand and correct him. no hospital has been bombed. the press agency that filed the report withdrew that story saying it was erroneous. there are not 230 000 civilians trapped: there are 113 000 who are being used as a human shield by the ltte. if they really cared about the tamil people they would not use tamil people as a human shield to protect themselves. what bravery is this? sri lanka has suffered 25 years of civil war. we need to help that country to remain what it has always been: one of the oldest democracies in the world. it has a longer history of democracy than 22 of the 27 member states of the eu. it has had 16 general elections, five presidential elections and has conducted itself as a member of the family of nations of democracy. it is a democracy that fought against a terrorist campaign. and it has won.
author. − madam president, this case highlights the plight of a minority in a country where minorities are at best marginalised and at worst brutalised. the rohingya people have suffered double discrimination for years. as muslims they are being denied the right to practise their faith freely, a right that we in the eu recognise as fundamental, and their mosques have been damaged and desecrated. as an ethnic minority, the rohingya people are systematically denied civil rights that most of the rest of the world take for granted: the right to marry, the right to move freely, the right to citizenship of the country they live in, and the right to a proper education. in praising our own progressive achievements in the field of human rights, we in the eu can tend to lose sight of the fact that many people in the world lack even these basic entitlements. we in this house are well aware of the plight of the people of burma generally, but since the riots by buddhist monks of 2007 that country has rather faded somewhat from the public consciousness. the appalling fate of the little-known-about rohingya people, especially those fleeing by boat as refugees that are the subject of this resolution, has renewed our attention on the despotic regime in burma, a country so rich in human potential otherwise. the brutality of the military junta stands in stark contrast to the action of thailand, which has only partially, in my view, discharged its responsibility for the rohingya refugees as it unfortunately alleges that most of them are purely economic refugees which i believe to be highly unlikely, and tried sending them back. thailand must take more seriously its growing role as a force for stability and humanity in the region. in contrast we can expect very little from the brutal burmese military leaders, impervious as they have been to our many pleas for years. i hope that the junta generals’ contempt for civilised opinion one day comes back to haunt them, possibly in an international criminal tribunal, when burma is finally freed of tyranny.
author. − madam president, the treatment and discrimination of the rohingya people appals us all. as a muslim minority in buddhist burma, they are not recognised as one of burma’s ethnic minorities. they have few legal rights and, as amendment 3 tabled by glenys kinnock highlights, they face deliberate impoverishment, denial of citizenship, denial of freedom of movement, arbitrary taxation, land confiscation and the denial of permission to marry. it is no wonder that many attempt to leave burma as they have no other option. the shocking reports that a thousand rohingya boat people over a 12-day period, who, instead of being brought to safety by the thai authorities who discovered them, were instead towed into international waters without navigational equipment, food and water and left to fend for themselves, sickens anyone with an iota of human decency. only yesterday, an article in the guardian highlighted other incidents. the latest case involved 220 men, who were discovered in an open craft by fishermen. these refugees claimed they were detained by thai authorities on a remote island for two months, and that they were beaten before being forced onto boats and left to their fate. the abuse and lack of international coordinated action to help the rohingya must be addressed. thailand must also take responsibility. the thai prime minister must act. the problems of abuse at the hands of thai officials must be seriously addressed. the thai government must sign the 1951 un convention relating to the status of refugees and the 1967 protocol. as joel chamy, vice-president of washington-based refugees international, said, the rohingya need protection and asylum. thailand has said it is unwilling to grant that, but that is a problem that will not go away. there are ongoing reports of the treatment of burmese refugees who enter malaysia. many of these people are sold as slaves, the women and children are forced into sexual slavery and the men are sold as forced labour onto fishing vessels. some of this fish may even enter the eu market. i hope that today we can highlight the plight of burmese refugees and particularly the plight of the rohingya.
author. − madam president, i am asking for a last-minute change to the wording of the oral amendment – if the house will allow – because we have now managed to establish what the confusion was in the joint resolution. the wording originally said ‘non-fire period’, and that did not make any sense to us, so we changed it to ‘ceasefire’. it now transpires that the official text from the declaration of the co-chairs, which includes the european union, uses the wording – which is strange, but nevertheless they use it in writing – ‘no-fire’ period. so, could we change the ‘non-fire’ to ‘no-fire’ rather than the word ‘ceasefire’, as this would reflect the official text of the co-chairs?
author. – madam president, including the word ‘humanitarian’ aid, which is just to make it clear what kind of aid we are talking about. but the important thing is to declare a ‘no-fire period’, which is the wording in the co-chairs’ declaration.
author. − madam president, i have just realised that, owing to the order in which the amendments have been printed on the voting list, i was actually reading out the oral amendment to recital k. i apologise for the confusion, but in fact we are now amending paragraph 2. that may explain why there was some confusion. could we switch the voting list around? i do apologise, but i have things down in the wrong order on my list. i was actually reading out the change i wanted to make to recital k, rather than to paragraph 2, so that is the one we will be voting on next. i do apologise for the confusion. the amendment to paragraph 2, which should have been the one we took last time, is: ‘believes that a military victory over the ltte, as envisaged by the government of sri lanka, will not obviate the need to find a political solution in order to ensure a lasting peace’. that is as it is on the voting list.
author. − madam president, i will now repeat it correctly for the sake of mr romeva i rueda. recital k, as amended orally, should read now: ‘whereas the tokyo co-chairs have called jointly on the government of sri lanka and the ltte to declare a no-fire period to allow for evacuation of the sick and wounded and provision of humanitarian aid to civilians,’.
author. − madam president, i notice once again that the officials have not actually written the oral amendments in the same order as they are actually voted on, so i will be very careful to pick the right order myself this time. for paragraph 2, we want to add the words at the end of the paragraph, ‘as well as deliberate impoverishment, arbitrary taxation and land confiscation’.
author. − madam president, amended orally as follows for paragraph 5: ‘welcomes the thai government’s cooperation with the united nations high commissioner for refugees and calls for immediate and full access to all the detained rohingya boat people in order to define their protection needs; calls at the same time on the government of thailand to sign the 1951 un convention relating to the status of refugees and the 1967 protocol thereto;’.
author. − madam president, i will read out the entire text for paragraph 6 as amended orally: ‘stresses that the boat people issue which affects thailand and other countries is essentially a regional one; views positively the efforts of the thai government to increase cooperation among regional neighbours to address the rohingya issue; welcomes in this respect the meeting held on 23 january by the permanent secretary of foreign affairs, kasit piromya, with the ambassadors of india, indonesia, bangladesh, malaysia and burma; and appeals to the members of asean, and in particular the thai chair and relevant international organisations, to work on a permanent solution to this long-standing problem;’.
author. − madam president, recital e should read as follows: ‘whereas the united nations refugee agency has voiced its concern about the reports of mistreatment of the burmese refugees and gained access to some of the 126 rohingya still kept in custody by the thai authorities’.
mr president, i rise as chair of parliament’s delegation for relations with australia and new zealand to strongly identify myself with the statement you have just made and to thank you for it. i look forward to delivering that message next week in australia.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is with heavy hearts that we debate once again what our union can do to ease the pain in the middle east. looking at the recent conflict in gaza, all the old familiar phrases apply: blame on both sides; provocation by hamas; disproportionate response by israel. but in the face of the recurring violence, we have recycled those tired phrases so often that they have lost whatever impact they once had. we cannot go on like this. of course, it is our moral duty to assist in the reconstruction of gaza. of course, it makes sense to seek safeguards from israel. it is bad enough to see the airport, schools and sewerage systems blown up; it is worse to rebuild them with european money knowing that they will likely be destroyed once again. is it possible, is it credible, to imagine that israel can assure us that this will not happen? in any event, reconstruction and humanitarian aid from the european union will not prevent future conflict. we need a new and positive approach, jointly with the united states, if possible, but without them if not. last month’s violence and the outcome of this month’s election have changed the terms of the debate. hamas is stronger politically, it is intact militarily, it is holding out against recognising israel, and the expected coalition in israel will be more hard-line than ever and broadly resistant to seeing a separate palestinian state. meanwhile, the gulf between the west bank and gaza grows ever wider, with the threat of a permanent division. the council and the commission have not really said what their response will be to this turn of events, and the czech presidency appears to want the matter off the agenda. but we can afford to wait no longer. with the situation in flux and neither hamas nor the israelis talking to one another, we must set achievable terms on which we can talk to both. isolation has led only to despair. the time has come for diplomacy, delicate but determined. in which forum? in the quartet, mr solana? well, perhaps, but let us first acknowledge that the policy failures, the dashed hopes and the creeping extremism of the past seven years have taken place under the quartet’s watch. its envoy tony blair has never even been to gaza. if he went there, he could visit the site of the industrial area, which is one of his pet projects, designed to generate jobs, but levelled last month. (applause) the quartet has to open its mind to a new approach and, if our partners within it cannot take that step, then we should explore ways in which it might. lastly, we can only prepare for the future if we acknowledge honestly what has happened in the past. there should be a free and fair international investigation into alleged war crimes in the gaza conflict. the unrwa and our own parliamentary committee have both reported alarming evidence of war crimes, and the allegations are serious indeed. if israel is wrongly accused, its name should be cleared, but if it has committed those crimes, it must face up to its responsibilities. our aim must be to forge an agreement for a peaceful and prosperous future on both sides of the divide, where enemies can once again become partners. but the failure of our approach to date is written in spilled blood on the ground. mr solana, we must pioneer a new path to peace, and the european union, if necessary, must take the lead. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i was a member of the european parliament delegation that travelled to gaza last week to see the devastation, and the focus of parliament’s resolution today is humanitarian action, which is desperately needed. this is a real humanitarian crisis, and how are we going to address that urgently? ninety per cent of people in gaza are dependent on un aid. this is not linked to any negotiations. we have to ensure that that aid gets through, and the key to that is the lifting of the siege and the opening of the crossing-points. how can a densely populated area of 1.5 million people that has been bombed for 22 days and in which over 1 000 people were killed even begin to recover when only 15 categories of humanitarian items are being allowed in: food, some medicines and mattresses? you cannot rebuild homes and offices without cement and glass, which are banned. you cannot teach children in schools that have no paper because it is banned. you cannot feed people when there is not enough food being allowed in. it is not that the aid is not there, but it is not being allowed through. we have to put pressure on the israeli government to end the blockade and open the crossings. any assessment of the damage caused in gaza must draw attention to the deliberate targeting to destroy the infrastructure and the economy. we saw schools, factories, homes and a hospital deliberately attacked. once again, we have witnessed the destruction by israel of projects funded by the european union and, rather than take action on this, we are talking about upgrading trade relations when conditions on human rights are currently being breached under the current agreements. mr solana talked about how pursuing the same policies can bring us back to the same place. well, i agree. in 2006, the european union refused to recognise the palestinian unity government, which included members of hamas, and yet we are ready to recognise a new israeli government, which may include members who reject a two-state solution, who do not support a palestinian state. what is crucial now is that the eu must be prepared to work with and recognise an interim palestinian national government of consensus that should emerge from the cairo talks in the next few weeks, and we must give out clear signals of our intentions to the international community. we have to support the reconciliation process in palestine as part of achieving a long-term solution, and that means ensuring that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past. (applause)
i scríbhinn. – tá an cás daonnúil i ngaza do-ghlactha. tá cabhair bia de dhíth ar ochtó a hocht faoin chéad den daonra, tá easpa soláthairtí éigeantacha míochaine sna hospidéil, agus ní féidir na mílte tonna de chabhair a thabhairt isteach i ngaza mar nach ligtear dóthain trucailí isteach ann. cuireadh uafás ar dhaoine ar fud an domhain faoina laghad de fhreagairt idirnáisiúnta a bhí ann nuair a maraíodh breis agus 1 000 palaistíneach ar na mallaibh le linn ionsaí iosrael i ngaza – breis agus 300 páiste san áireamh. caithfidh straitéis fhorghníomhach fhadtéarmach ón eoraip agus ó rialtas nua sam cearta na bpalaistíneach chun stáit inmharthana – bunaithe ar theorainneacha roimh 1967 – a chur san áireamh; stop a chur le gníomhaíocht lonnaíochta sna críocha faoi fhorghabháil; agus balla na cinedheighilte a scartáil. is gá slándáil d’iosrael agus stát saor don phalaistín a bhaint amach, ach ní mór deireadh a chur leis an chás go bhfuil iosrael ag úsáid na slándála mar leithscéal chun slad a dhéanamh ar phalaistínigh neamhurchóideacha. caithfear tús a chur le fíorphróiseas caibidlíochta. is gá don ae an comhaontú comhlachais idir an taontas eorpach agus iosrael a chur ar ceal fad agus nach gcomhlíonann iosrael an dlí idirnáisiúnta agus an dlí daonnúil.
mr president, several speakers are putting a brave face on things this afternoon. the fact is that not all of the esdp missions are proving to be a success: several failed to have clarity of purpose, several are poorly funded and it is possible that we could still fail in the afghan campaign. so it is a good thing that parliament is putting forward a strong contribution to defining common security, and we need now to establish far clearer criteria for the esdp missions. on the question of the integration of our forces, progress is feeble, and i cannot think that colliding french and british submarines is quite what we had expected!
mr president, you will not be surprised if i express concern about the thrust of the reports relating to esdp, in particular mr von wogau’s report, which is full of false assumptions concerning the nature of the european union and the ambition to create a european army under eu control. it sees, and i quote this expression, ‘synchronised armed forces europe’ as a step on the way to ‘an integrated european armed force’. surely, in other words, a european army. as we all know, esdp produces no military added value. it is a political tool in the advancement of an integrated europe. it should be seen for what it is. for a long time i have argued that the european union could play a useful role in providing civil instruments for crisis management and post-conflict reconstruction. this would actually be helpful. by the way, no military officers that i know imagine that conflicts such as afghanistan can be tackled by military means alone. there is nothing new in what is now fashionably called ‘the comprehensive approach’. we used to call it ‘hearts and minds’. so it is quite wrong – a deceit in fact – for the eu to try and justify its involvement in military matters by claiming the comprehensive approach somehow rather for itself – some sort of eu-unique selling point. for the eu, the honest and sensible approach would be to drop the defence ambition from esdp and to concentrate on its civil contribution. then, perhaps, europe and her allies would be able to focus on their military contributions to nato, revitalising the transatlantic alliance for the difficult years ahead, without being distracted by the eu’s duplicative agenda. the immediate problem is that the eu’s ambitions are now beginning to contaminate nato, and i am seriously concerned that this will affect the way the 60th anniversary goes. meanwhile, back in the uk, we have government ministers in a state of denial that any of this is happening.
madam president, those who pretend that an eu superstate is not being built before our eyes have a lot of explaining to do in terms of the contents of these empire-building reports. affirmations that a common defence policy – now taken as a given – and what is called the eu’s strategic autonomy require an integrated european armed force, and demands for an autonomous and permanent eu operational headquarters – along with demands for equivalence with nato – leave no room for doubt but that, under our common foreign and security policy, those pushing the european project demand not just political power but also military power, all of which must come from diminishing the powers, the rights and the independence of the member states. such super-statehood and a centralised army for europe i repudiate, as i do the lisbon treaty, which would make it all possible.
madam president, these are own-initiative reports and therefore they might be dismissed as so much hot air. but we know that such reports are sometimes used as a means of introducing the policy aspirations of the eu. mr von wogau was once the chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and was instrumental in bringing about the european single currency. he is now chair of the subcommittee on security and defence, and, when he writes a report saying that the european union needed its own armed forces, then we can be confident that that is precisely what the european union intends to bring about in due course. these reports call for the eu to develop its own armed forces by means of common weapons procurement, a common communication system and an autonomous common command and control structure. mr von wogau advocates an eu standing army of 60 000 soldiers permanently available for deployment. the eu wants its own soldiers, guns, tanks, aeroplanes and bombs in order to ‘fulfil its responsibilities in the world’. what are those responsibilities exactly? to find out, you will have to wait to see if the lisbon treaty is fully ratified and brings about ‘a common foreign and security policy, leading to a common defence’. no one can say that they were not warned of the eu’s military aspirations.
in writing. – i congratulate mr vatanen on his report which i endorse. in particular i support the idea of an eu operational military headquarters being established. of course nato should be and is our first port of call when security is threatened. yet during the bush-gore debates just over a decade ago, george bush said that had he been president he would not have intervened in kosovo. now despite my antipathy to the bush administration’s foreign policy it seems to me that it is a perfectly reasonable position for bush to take on the basis of us self-interest. yet it is not a position that europe could or should have followed. apart from the strong moral argument that we had a responsibility to protect those facing the genocide of the serbs, we also had the consequences of tens/hundreds of thousands of refugees. we, in our own and their interests, must have the capacity to engage without the americans. to do this, it is a small price we pay to have a permanent eu operational military hq ready for such a future eventuality.
mr president, would the commissioner, in her reply to parliament, explain exactly how the newly phrased ‘union for the mediterranean’ – as opposed to ‘mediterranean union’ – remains an eu policy? i think it is very important that she also considers two other eu seas: the black sea, and its synergy, and the baltic sea, and its strategy. my country has an interest in the mediterranean. i think we have observer status too. member states are commonwealth members, and – though i do not wish to irritate my spanish colleagues – gibraltar, as far as i know, still is technically part of her majesty’s dominions. it is very important that this is not just some sort of regional hive-off in which the rest of the eu is not fully involved – as i hope they will be fully involved in the baltic sea and the black sea.
just before i call the next speaker, let me announce with pleasure that dr ayman nour, the egyptian parliamentarian who was imprisoned some years ago for reasons which the eu council said were not serious, has been released today. he has been the subject of many resolutions in the european parliament, so i am very pleased to announce that he has now been released.
mr president, eu funds distributed by the lottery of ‘first come, first served’ is wrong. yet that is what we have seen in northern ireland this week. the minister who decided on cavalier distribution of eu rural development funds on this basis, leading to the demeaning and bizarre spectacle of farmers queuing for two days to get some of their own modulated money back, is a minister not fit to hold office. in that, at a stroke, she both humiliated hard-working farmers and displayed crass ignorance of basic requirements for the distribution of eu funds. the source of this embarrassment is the wanton refusal of the minister to allocate sufficient funds to rural development. the pitiful gbp 50 million she put into axis 1 – and only gbp 15 million of that into the modernisation fund – is what caused the spectacle of tuesday. let me say on another matter, in defence of mr wilson, the minister of the environment in northern ireland, that i am glad he does not fit the stereotype that unthinking climate-change hysterics expect in this house.
mr president, on 12 february 2009 the dutch mp, geert wilders, was refused entry to the united kingdom by order of the home secretary. never before has a democratically elected politician, representing a democratic party from a democratic european country, been denied entry. it seems odd that the british government can find the legal means to ban mr wilders, but is powerless to prevent the entry of assorted terrorists, political and religious extremists, gangsters, criminals, rapists and paedophiles from the european union and, indeed, the wider world. perhaps mr wilders’ banning had something to do with the alleged threat by a british peer, lord ahmed, that, were mr wilders to appear in the house of lords, 10 000 islamist demonstrators would appear outside. this was an act of appeasement to a dark age ideology and it seems that we do not quite have the free movement of ideas across european union borders.
mr president, i would like to draw to your attention the situation that occurred in my constituency yesterday morning when farmers were forced to queue outside government offices, in some cases for two nights, in order to apply for a european union farm modernisation grant scheme. our local agriculture minister decided to allocate these grants on a ‘first come, first served’ basis. this can only be described as an inadequate way to deal with the allocation of eu rural development money. i was glad to hear, therefore, that a commission official yesterday questioned the validity of this allocation procedure. we are aware that not every farmer can benefit from this particular funding package. however, i feel the situation clearly demonstrates the dire straits of the agriculture industry, certainly in my region, if farmers have to queue for days outside, during winter months, in an attempt to secure modest sums of eu funding.
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by konrad szymański, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the review of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (2008/2236(ini)) (a6-0037/2009).
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i welcome very warmly the statement made by commissioner ferrero-waldner just now, and i ask my political group to withdraw its amendment so that this report can go through. if not, i am in a rather difficult position, but i will have to support the socialist rapporteur on this issue. i have to say that i believe the development instrument is for development purposes. but if one looks at what the development instrument – particularly article 179 – gives, even with all the constraints the oda instrument allows the promotion of museums, libraries, the arts, music in schools, sports training facilities and venues – all these count as oda. but, of course, sponsoring concert tours or athletes’ travel costs does not. cultural programmes in developing countries, whose main purpose is to promote the cultural values of the donor, are not reportable as oda. it excludes military aid but it does not exclude peace-keeping. it covers a wide variety of activities – even civil police work to supply and increase the capacity of training of policemen, the demobilisation of soldiers, monitoring of elections, removal of mines and landmines – all this is oda. so here we are asking ourselves, in this parliament, how many angels are dancing on the head of a pin when in fact the main area of the work is covered by the oda instrument. so, i welcome commissioner ferrero-waldner’s statement that article 181a is there to make it possible to look for the funds to do what some of my colleagues are hoping to do.
rapporteur. − mr president, i have to say at the outset that i very much welcome the communication which has been prepared by the commission. i think it is both comprehensive and ambitious. in my report, commissioner, i recommend which practical actions, investments and processes are needed if we are to identify that very special place for children in external action. the commission and the council communication and conclusions on external action will build upon the external dimension of the eu strategy on the rights of the child. i believe that this is essential work for the european union. commissioner, i now look forward very much to seeing actions intended to match the ambition which i see. we need to see substance backing up the rhetoric. that means that resources must be available and, of course – as i am sure you will agree – there must be no backtracking by the european union member states on the commitments they have made to fund the millennium development goals (mdg). what we know is that, for most of the world’s two billion children, it is a daily struggle against poverty and vulnerability. as we know, 98% of the children in our world living in extreme poverty are living in developing countries. furthermore, it is now clear that the impact of the financial crisis will be severely felt by children and young people, for instance when the budgets are cut back on health and education. that is why i think it is right that we make a political commitment, at the highest level, on behalf of and with children. the eu must see in its partnership with the developing countries the opportunity to influence public policy to save children’s lives. priority actions for children must be promoted when the european commission negotiates the country strategy papers’ regional and thematic strategies, when they are drawn up and subsequently when they are reviewed. when there is budget support, including mdg budget contracts, specific objectives and indicators on children must and should be included. i welcome the commission’s intention to draw up partner national action plans for children. we need assurances that even the most marginalised children – including children with disabilities and orphans – have access to equitable health, welfare and judicial services. i believe there needs to be more and better training of commission staff –both in brussels and in delegations – particularly in how they manage the participation of children. we need to see a radical rethink in the european union about how we ensure that we listen to children and invite children to participate, because we understand that it is children themselves who give lives to the values that are enshrined in international law through the convention on the rights of the child agreed in 1989. it is my experience that the children themselves – the young people – have a wealth of understanding and experience – which we must tap into – on how to tackle poverty and environmental degradation. i welcome the fact that the commission recognises the importance of consultation during the preparation of the eu strategy on the rights of the child. i also understand that this has been planned for the first half of 2009. commissioner, would the commission be able to confirm when this process will begin? i trust there will not be any decision that the public consultation – including with children – will be put on hold until a new commission and parliament is in place. finally, to quote kofi annan, ‘there is no trust more sacred than the one the world holds with children. there is no duty more important than ensuring that their rights are respected, that their welfare is protected, that their lives are free from fear and want and that they grow up in peace.’ i think all of us would agree that those are fine objectives.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, it is hard to believe that we are sitting here today discussing minor changes to the rules on value added tax when eu countries are facing the worst financial and economic crisis since the great depression. we continue to pretend that eu economies are not as badly contaminated by bad debt and slump as elsewhere, yet even in germany output is falling at the staggering annualised rate of 8% and government finances everywhere are stretched to the limit as tax revenue falls and welfare spending rises, and as governments take over private debts and try vainly to stimulate growth. the worst case is probably greece with its downgraded government debt still 94% of gdp and with an interest risk margin that is today creeping back to 3%. greece is going to need bailing out – but by whom? not by the germans, they say. even ardent supporters of the great eu project are now having to accept that if greek debt is not underwritten, greece may be forced out of the euro zone. probably of even more serious concern is the huge exposure of several euro zone countries to defaulting debts of eastern europe. i almost feel sorry for the commission. for years it has been trying to do as it was told, upholding the rules on state aid, competition and procurement: rules which are essential components of the project but are now being ignored all round. the saddest spectacle is commissioner almunia’s statement this week that he intends to invoke an excessive deficit procedure against spain, france and ireland because they have broken the budget rules of the stability pact. mr almunia – please – the stability pact is broken. it never did have any teeth. never mind that prudent government finances are essential to the survival of the euro, there is nothing else that these countries can do about their budgets. no doubt the gestures towards european union will continue, but democratically-elected governments have a primary interest in looking after the populations that elected them. france and germany have made it clear that their fiscal stimuli are there to help their own industries and workers. obviously coordination is only for the good times. economies are in dire straits all over the world. some of them will pull through. if some european union economies return to prosperity, it will not be thanks to the european union or to its rules on vat.
madam president, i do not hold with the notion that our economic salvation lies in tiny value added tax cuts, which are something we have had in the united kingdom with, frankly, only a marginal positive impact. however, i do accept that reducing the taxation burden is an instrument of economic stimulation. thus, this proposal – very modest as it is – whereby cuts in vat would be possible in some sectors, is welcome so far as it goes. i would have much preferred it to have gone further, beyond the realms of tokenism. extending it to embrace house renovations and repairs would be its greatest asset, because stimulation of the hard-pressed construction sector is very much required, and, to achieve optimum effect, that concession should not be restricted to energy efficiency measures only. construction needs help right across the board, not just on a selective basis. making it possible for member states to act in making these marginal cuts in vat would only be half the battle because in many cases – my own country included – hard-pressed chancellors of the exchequer with diminishing revenue resources will perhaps be hesitant and will have to be persuaded to act. even i would have to concede, though, that on vat issues such as those covered by this report, they would at least not have the excuse of blaming brussels if they failed to follow through on what is permitted under these proposals.
madam president, i wish to join the chair of our committee in sympathising with commissioner kovács over the difficult situation he faces in trying to get tax issues through the machinery of the community. he has to use maximum political tact in order to achieve unanimity. while i wholly support the subsidiarity principle and the sovereign right of member states to set their own tax rates, i would suggest to member states which have not as yet taken advantage of the facility for lower tax rates on labour-intensive, localised industries, to seriously consider doing so. in the country i know best, where we have waltzed into a 2.5% reduction in vat across the board – with, as mr allister says, little or no obvious response or result economically – i would suggest that it would have been much more effective to have concentrated action in the particular areas of labour-intensive, localised industries and to have reduced the rate substantially from 17.5% down to the lower rate of 5%, or below. that would have been much more effective in getting people into work, and activity going again. areas such as house renovations and extensions, energy-saving improvements, and perhaps gardening and landscaping work and, as olle schmidt said, care for the elderly and care for children, are the ones which would get people into work and probably increase the tax-take, because those people would be paying tax on their incomes as well. it is a win-win situation to concentrate in those areas, and i urge all those member states which have not yet taken advantage of this, including and especially my own country, to do so.
madam president, i also welcome the commission’s proposal and believe it to be an intelligent response to the crisis that we are facing. like others who have spoken, and indeed the previous speaker, i strongly believe that this proposal must apply to energy conservation, and energy conservation measures must be a high priority of the member states. reduced costs for home installation would achieve three of our cherished objectives. it would reduce environmental damage by reducing co2 emissions, it would assist in job creation, because energy conservation measures are very labour-intensive, and thirdly, in the long run, it would of course lower energy bills for the elderly and other vulnerable people in society. i hope that the commission will press ahead with this proposal, that it will persuade the member states that so far remain unpersuaded and that it will emphasise that, as part of the proposal, you can interpret energy conservation measures as being included.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
colleagues, i am pleased to inform you that members of a delegation of mps and other visitors from the state great hural (parliament) of mongolia and the mission of mongolia to the european union have now taken their seats in the distinguished vistors’ gallery. it is a great pleasure to welcome them here today. (applause) the members of the delegation are in brussels with their counterparts in the european parliament on the occasion of the 7th european union–mongolia interparliamentary meeting. this meeting has strengthened the important and growing relationship between the european parliament and the mongolian parliament. the visitors have also had an opportunity to experience, at first hand, the workings of our parliament. i wish the delegation well for the remainder of their stay in the european union.
we now continue with the vote.
madam president, i rise to explain the fact that i was one of only five members of this house who voted against this resolution. i did so, not because i do not want economic help to go to those who have suffered tragically in this crisis and assistance to be given to them for that reason – that is absolutely right – but simply because this resolution, like most resolutions on the middle east, is defective. it is defective because it does not establish the rights and wrongs of the situation and, without that, the resolution cannot and should not be allowed to pass. the fact is that we are where we are in gaza because of the actions of the hamas group, who have rained bombs and rockets on a sovereign state, which has the right – as has every sovereign state – to react and defend its own people. until the responsibility for this crisis is made clear in resolutions of this parliament, then the resolutions themselves cannot be effective. the time has come for this parliament to say to hamas: ‘recognise the state of israel, negotiate with it, end the anti-semitic views of your charter and then we can start the peace process’.
madam president, it was the great philosopher, whitney houston, who once said: ‘i believe that children are our future. teach them well and let them lead the way. show them all the beauty they possess inside.’ what is interesting about this report is that for the first time we are, in many ways, looking at the key for future development. we are notably looking for child development and child education, and not only female child education – if you teach the woman, you teach the family – but also primary education. there is a simple flaw in our thinking on primary education: we always seem to think that the state has the solution. i urge all my colleagues in this house to look at the solutions that have been highlighted by the e. g. west centre at the university of newcastle, which looks at private education for the poor. where the state has failed to provide education for poor children, parents themselves have come together, finance non-state education and, therefore, are also able to subsidise the non-working poor. i would urge everyone to look beyond the state for solutions to help the very poorest in our society.
madam president, i think our constituents would be interested to see how far we have gone in these fields. in the run-up to the irish referendum, and then especially after it, we were told that the european union was not really progressing towards a common foreign policy and that it certainly was not meddling in the field of abortion law, and yet here we have those two issues tied together in one report. despite all the promises we made about listening to the people and tailoring our policy to suit their demands, we have carried on regardless. there was a very neat illustration of that earlier this morning when we listened to the president of the czech republic. he made a speech that was in some ways almost platitudinous. he made the very banal and unarguable point that governments are better when there is an opposition and that we should tolerate other points of view. what was the reaction of this chamber when he said that we should tolerate other points of view? people in the pse and the ppe-de groups turned their backs and walked out! not only will they not respond to alternative points of view, they cannot even bear to listen to them! what neater example could you have of this house’s attitude towards the electorates out there? if you think i am wrong, prove me wrong: hold the referendums you promised, put the treaty of lisbon to the people. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
madam president, in reading through this report, i came across the definition of a social economy and i was interested to see what the definition was. it pointed out two things that struck me: one was social objectives over capital, and the other was the principles of solidarity and responsibility. furthermore, it talked about democratic control by members. no mention was made of the willing and free exchange between buyer and seller in order to produce the profit which can then be reinvested to create jobs. what could be more social than making a profit to re-invest to create jobs for your population? when we start to focus on so-called social needs, rather than the need to create profit and the need to make sure that we can create jobs and spread wealth throughout an economy, we end up in the trap that hayek, the great austrian economist, – and also ayn rand – warned about at the beginning of the last century where we forget about profit and start on the slippery slope to serfdom. for that reason, i was against this report.
madam president, one in four people experience mental health problems at least once in their lives. eight of the ten leading causes of disability are mental health issues, and mental health problems have a huge effect on those not directly affected. therefore, we urgently need to update mental health legislation that can properly develop an awareness of the importance of good mental health. the message i have been trying to get across in my constituency in the west midlands is that the media, the internet, schools and workplaces all have a vital role to play in making the public aware. however, we also need more research into the field of mental health and the interaction between mental and physical health problems, and an explanation of how mental health initiatives might be funded under the european social fund and the european regional development fund. this needs to be undertaken urgently. employers also need to promote a healthy working climate, paying attention to work-related stress and the underlying causes of mental disorder at the workplace, and tackling those causes. i was therefore very pleased to support this report.
madam president, when we look at applied research, i wonder whether we should be looking into the defects of the common fisheries policy. let us not forget that for over 40 years we have had a common fisheries policy that was designed to run european commercial fishing on a sustainable basis, but has failed to deliver either environmental sustainability or development of the fishing industry. we should also contrast this with the property-rights-based approach of countries such as new zealand, where the government recognised that by giving people a vested interest in maintaining a resource they would fight to preserve it. we can also look at iceland, where we have a successful market-oriented approach with individual tradeable quotas. of course, we can apply new technology and new research with all the will in the world, but if we continue to have a system where, despite all the innovation, governments tell individual fishermen in detail how much they can fish, then all the applied research will be a complete waste of time. it is time to scrap the common fisheries policy.
madam president, in the current difficult economic climate, this report brings the kind of joined-up thinking that is desperately needed. vat reductions will help most the people who need it most – the people who earn less than others. i believe this report is also about job creation, and that is why i supported it. it is about making sure that jobs do not disappear into the black economy. i hope that it will be implemented quickly, especially in my region, in the west midlands. we also need to stress that we have to allow member states to reduce vat on certain items to battle against climate change. providing people with an incentive to ‘buy green’ is exactly the kind of market-based instrument that will reap the greatest benefits. vat reductions across the world are used to encourage people to buy energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly fridges, freezers and other goods that use up large amounts of energy, and cheaper prices for these products will help the less well-off. my government in the uk has taken the lead on this issue by reducing vat by 2.5% until 2010, and i hope other member states will also follow suit.
madam president, this is perhaps the most difficult issue for a free society. how does a free society combat those who wish to destroy it? that is the decision we have to make. it has to be a balance. of course, we must protect human rights and of course the legal process should prevail, but sometimes in the world in which we live it is necessary to take extraordinary measures. we cannot in europe, and in the countries of europe, rely solely on the united states to do it. we are presently witnessing in my country a trial of eight people who have been accused of trying to blow up eight airliners. they did not succeed. i do not know whether they are guilty, but that plot did not succeed. we have to ensure that a free society has the right tools and the right measures in order to fight and defeat those who would destroy it. if we fail to do that, we fail the people whom we are sent here to represent.
madam president, i welcome the opportunity to speak briefly on this, because of the absolutely brilliant address that we heard from the president of the czech republic. he reminded us of the history of his and many countries, particularly in eastern europe, which were occupied by the nazis and then, effectively, by the communists. that really demonstrates the vital importance of nato and its maintenance. the european union has a role in society, but the principal defence of the west is still nato, and it is so because it is our alliance with the united states of america. one of the disturbing features of this parliament, which i find on so many issues, is an undercurrent and sometimes overcurrent of anti-american feeling. it was the united states that ensured that we are speaking here as free peoples, and nato guarantees that vital alliance for the years to come.
madam president, for most of the last century – and most of this century so far – nato has helped to keep the peace. yet there are those in this house who seek to undermine the very institution that has allowed us to cooperate with our american and canadian colleagues and a number of eu countries. how are we seeking to undermine this? not only by attacking nato, but also by duplicating its structures. we are now seeing a situation where us and canadian personnel can sit with eu experts in one room, under the umbrella of nato, and then there will be exactly the same meeting, excluding our us and canadian colleagues, which is part of the eu structure on defence. what a needless waste of resources and time. we must remember the vital role that nato has played, but we must also not forget that part of nato is burden-sharing. if we move towards a purely eu defence mechanism, then it will be mostly britain and france who share that burden, while others hide behind it. let us not forget the vital role that nato has played – long may it continue!
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, it was with great pleasure that i voted for this report, and i wish mrs dahl well on her maternity leave. unfortunately, she could not be here today. it was a telling point that as a member of her ind/dem group she was willing to be rapporteur to play a constructive role in the work of our parliament, unlike her colleagues from the so-called uk independence party, who, i believe – if i am right – have never been rapporteurs for any report in this parliament in the four-and-a-half years since a motley crew of 12 of them were elected at the last european elections. all they do is snipe from the sidelines, usually on the basis of ignorance, because they are unwilling to get engaged in the real work that we are doing across the political spectrum in this house to ensure that the legislation and policies the union produces are properly scrutinised and are a fair balance of interests of our different member states and our different political viewpoints. all they want to do is be negative and oppose everything. what a contrast between them and their colleague!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the morillon report amending the north-east atlantic convention. nevertheless, i do not consider that the eu should be a contracting party to this convention; rather i believe that the individual fishing nations of the north-east atlantic should join russia, iceland and norway as independent contracting parties.
in writing. − conservatives are fully in support of the principles of consultation and the engagement of employees in the running of successful enterprises. however, we do not believe that this is an appropriate area for intervention at eu level. while we generally encourage the consistent and effective transposition of eu law, we nevertheless considered that it was appropriate to abstain on this vote.
in writing. − i support this report which calls for countries which have not done so to enforce a 2002 directive which seeks to strengthen the process of informing and consulting employees within the eu. this report urges the commission to take immediate measures to guarantee effective transposition of the directive and to initiate infringement proceedings against those member states which have failed to transpose the directive or which have not done so correctly. the report asks that workers representatives be allowed to scrutinise the information provided, that information be provided in good time before consultation, and that trade unions be involved in the process in order to consolidate social dialogue.
in writing. − my british conservative colleagues and i are very supportive of the contribution made to the european economy by those organisations and enterprises which operate in the 'not-for-profit' sector. conservatives have a strong belief, for example, in the benefits of communities working together, the work of charitable institutions and the voluntary sector in general, and have recently commissioned extensive research in this area. there are, however, a number of recommendations for new european measures in this report which we are unable to accept. we have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. − the tzampazi report deals with an important health issue. with one in four people experiencing a serious mental health problem at some point in their lives, virtually all of us will either experience a mental health problem or be close to someone who does. mental illness still unfortunately carries a stigma, and it is imperative that member states cooperate to eliminate that stigma and implement measures to ensure fair and equal treatment.
in writing. − i support this report which calls for member states to develop awareness raising campaigns, to combat stigma and social exclusion and to improve mental health legislation. one in four people experience mental health problems at least once in their lives, yet there is still stigma attached to mental illness. this report codifies the basic principles, values and objectives of mental health policy which is necessary across europe to promote better understanding.
in writing. − the european union wastes more than 20% of its energy due to inefficiency, representing about 400 mtoe (million tonnes of oil equivalent) less energy, and would also represent a huge cut in emissions. i support this report because it highlights the need to be more efficient with energy. the report gives us a target of saving a 9% loss of energy by 2016.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mrs miguélez' report on fisheries research. i am opposed to the common fisheries policy and believe that fisheries management should be a competence of europe's maritime nations working in cooperation with each other. that cooperation would require common actions in the field of science and research and this is an area within which the eu can give added value.
in writing. − "i voted in favour of the cederschiöld report because i believe that the ability for european citizens to work and live in another member state is an important right. i support the report's intention to facilitate the mobility of professionals and to guarantee the safety of consumers. however, there are aspects of the cederschiöld report that i do not fully support, such as the formulations regarding abolition of obstacles to the free movement of persons and services, which could be interpreted as a statement against collective agreements in the labour market. as regards the inclusion of health care professionals in the agreement, i see a risk of deregulation of the health care sector."
in writing. − i support the fava report on sanctions against employers of illegally staying third-country workers. some unscrupulous employers are prepared to exploit these illegal workers with wage rates below the legal minimum, appalling conditions and long working hours. where they do get caught they must face severe sanctions. yet the problem is that there is a vicious conspiracy to keep the exploitation hidden. the employers made the profits which they clearly do not wish to surrender while the workers, if they expose the exploitation, face deportation. if we are serious we must have a policy that gives amnesty to those who expose the exploiters. this would change the balance of power between employees and employers in a way that would virtually eliminate the problem.
in writing. − i support this report which will crackdown on employers of illegal immigrants within europe. one of the factors encouraging illegal immigrants to enter the eu is the prospect of finding work. i support this legislation because it will create a fairer system for legitimate european workers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which will allow britain to reduce vat rates for a new category of goods and services including restaurant services and other local services. i support the report because it gives smaller companies the opportunity to attract better custom. the report represents positive action in combating the recession by making smaller, local companies more attractive to customers.
in writing. − conservatives have always argued that taxation is a fundamental issue of sovereignty and therefore any move to transfer powers in this area from the european union to the member states is to be welcomed. this measure, which allows member states to apply a lower rate of vat to a number of locally provided and labour intensive services, is a positive example of the application of the principle of subsidiarity, and we encourage the commission to move further in this direction. in particular, we would have liked the reduced rate to have been extended to locally produced beers and ciders, as this would help pubs to survive when they are suffering from high levels of duty. we stress that it is for member states to decide when it is appropriate to apply these measures. the recent reduction of the general rate of vat in the united kingdom has been an expensive exercise which has produced little effect, when other measures such as much bigger but targeted reductions in vat, as permitted by this proposal, or increased personal income tax allowances, would have been more beneficial both to individuals and to the economy as a whole.
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party voted in favour of this report. we consider that vat reduction can make a contribution to the maintenance of certain jobs and allow for the creation of others. each country has submitted experiences which have allowed for some belief in the fact that local conditions need local reactions; this is true of a tax such as vat. in the uk a general reduction in vat has led to a fall in inflation of 1% and an injection into the economy of gbp 12 billion.
in writing. − since 11 september 2001, america has led a global war on terror. sadly, the absolutist culture of human rights in the eu and the political cowardice of many of its senior politicians have obliged the united states to assume a grossly disproportionate responsibility for tackling a threat that knows no boundaries. islamist jihadi extremists pose a threat to our very way of life. politicians have a responsibility to protect the public against this unprecedented and existentialist danger. i am glad that some countries in the eu saw fit to cooperate with the cia, our american allies. i cannot understand why some countries put the human rights of terrorists over the protection of their own citizens and refused to cooperate with the cia. once again the anti-americanism so prevalent in the eu put its citizens’ safety in jeopardy. this whole issue shows the importance of each member state retaining the right to act independently in matters of foreign policy and intelligence. i voted against this report.
in writing. − the resolution adopted by this house reaffirms that, according to article 14 of the un convention against torture, any victim of an act of torture has an enforceable right to redress and to fair and adequate compensation. it is telling that the uk conservative members of this house voted against the resolution. it is equally telling that the uk labour members abstained. the morally bankrupt labour government has led the uk into an illegal war and has allowed its airports to be used for extraordinary rendition flights. the votes of the unionist meps today adds further to this shame.
in writing. − eplp meps believe that this resolution contains a number of points of merit. we have consistently supported the drafting of this resolution and approved the joint resolution as tabled on behalf of four european parliamentary groups. however, we cannot support this resolution if it includes unproven accusations which have not yet been judged by the relevant authorities. unfortunately, as amended, this resolution is no longer based on proven facts and the eplp regretfully has no option but to abstain.
in writing. − i support the retention of the national veto in matters of foreign affairs and i am increasingly concerned about the growing role of the eu on the world stage despite the fact that the lisbon treaty has not been ratified. nevertheless, i accept that there are some areas in which the union can act together to express its will, and one such area is taiwan. the council recently voiced its support for taiwan’s meaningful participation in international organisations. i support this policy because i think it is unacceptable to deny the 23 million people of taiwan a voice on the international stage. taiwan is a prosperous democracy with a top-quality public health system. i question the morality of excluding taiwan from the benefits that would undoubtedly accrue from being granted observer status at the world health assembly. furthermore, i hope the eu institutions can together make progress on this issue before the next wha meeting in may. i welcome the report’s positive comments about the improvement in cross-straits relations. i therefore voted to abstain on this report.
in writing. − the saryusz-wolski report contains some welcome references to taiwan, and in particular the recent thaw in cross-straits relations. i congratulate taiwanese president ma for his courageous and determined initiative to improve relations with the people's republic of china. nevertheless, i fear we in the eu do not fully appreciate the importance of supporting democratic taiwan and giving its 23 million people a voice on the international stage. the council supports taiwan's meaningful participation in international organisations. it is time the parliament reiterated this support, especially with regard to taiwan's ambition to become an observer in the world health assembly. taiwan's exclusion from this body at the behest of china is reprehensible. as a medical doctor, i deprecate the interference of politics in matters of public health. we stand up to china over tibet; we stand up to china over human rights; it is time we stood up to china over taiwan. i voted to abstain on this report.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues welcome the need for effective inter-governmental co-operation within the cfsp, provided the united kingdom retains its veto and ability to act alone in its national interest when required. the report has good things to say on the need for more co-operation internationally by the 27 eu member states in areas such as transatlantic relations, georgia, the eastern partnership and the broader middle east. however, we oppose the minor references to the treaty of lisbon. we have long expressed our opposition to the treaty and do not believe that it would be in the interests of the uk and the eu to have the new foreign policy tools provided for in the treaty. for these reasons, we abstained overall.
in writing. − mr von wogau has my congratulations on his work both here and more generally for his chairmanship of the subcommittee on security and defence. i support the idea of an eu operational military headquarters being established. of course nato should be and is our first port of call when security is threatened. yet during the bush-gore debates just over a decade ago, george bush said that had he been president he would not have intervened in kosovo. now despite my antipathy to the bush administration’s foreign policy it seems to me that it is a perfectly reasonable position for bush to take on the basis of us self-interest. yet it is not a position that europe could or should have followed. apart from the strong moral argument that we had a responsibility to protect those facing the genocide of the serbs, we also had the consequences of tens/hundreds of thousands of refugees. we, in our own and their interests, must have the capacity to engage without the americans. to do this, it is a small price we pay to have a permanent eu operational military hq ready for such a future eventuality.
in writing. − british labour meps joined with the socialist group in voting in favour of this report. labour meps voted against the section of text devoted to the creation of a permanent eu military operational headquarters. labour meps have consistently questioned the need for this type of new institutional structure. we believe that europe needs to focus on ensuring it has the right capabilities to deploy at the right time, and making sure existing institutions function effectively rather than building additional institutions as an expensive and unnecessary luxury.
in writing. − this report calls for the setting-up of an autonomous and permanent eu operational headquarters with the capacity to undertake strategic planning and to conduct european security and defence policy (esdp) operations and missions. the report is right to recommend the reform of the united nations organization in order to make it capable of fully meeting its responsibilities and acting effectively in providing solutions to global challenges and responding to key threats.
in writing. − the conservative delegation fundamentally opposes the eu involvement in defence which this report aims significantly to extend. esdp is a political project that contributes no additional military capability while at the same time duplicating and undermining nato. the report envisions further unacceptable transfer of national competence in defence and security to the eu. it proposes "integrated european armed forces" and "synchronised armed forces europe" as an eu army in embryo. it is also replete with positive references to the treaty of lisbon, which we have strenuously opposed. we therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − one of the eu’s more spurious claims of self-justification is that it has maintained peace in europe since 1945. in fact, nato is largely responsible for keeping the peace in europe since the second world war. there is a strong anti-american lobby in the european parliament. that is to be greatly regretted, because america’s selfless contribution to rescuing europe in the 1940s and keeping peace in europe ever since is often obscured by anti-us propaganda. america’s part in our collective security is, and will remain, vital. of course, there are crossovers regarding the work of nato and the eu, but they are two fundamentally different organisations. any effort by the eu to usurp nato’s primacy and responsibility for transatlantic security is to be strongly resisted. i therefore elected to abstain.
in writing. − british labour meps are supportive of positive cooperation between nato and the eu, and welcome sharing of experience and expertise as a key method for strengthening basic capabilities, improving interoperability and coordinating planning, equipment and training. we voted in favour of the original text in paragraph 22 as we welcome french participation as part of strengthening eu-nato cooperation. on the final vote, british labour meps joined with the socialist group in voting against this report, particularly due to the inclusion of an entire section devoted to the creation of a permanent eu military operational headquarters. labour meps have consistently questioned the need for this type of new institutional structure. we believe that europe needs to focus on ensuring it has the right capabilities to deploy at the right time, and making sure existing institutions function effectively rather than building additional institutions as an expensive and unnecessary luxury.
in writing. − i could not support the vatanen report on the role of nato in the security of the eu. the report states that nato forms the core of european security. i take a contrary view. i believe that europe's security is enhanced by the eu's common foreign and security policy. nato, however, remains a nuclear weapons-based alliance. i am totally opposed to nuclear weapons and my party is committed to removing nuclear weapons from scottish soil when we achieve independence. an independent scotland will not remain in nato whilst it remains a nuclear alliance.
in writing. − i voted against this report. the strength and security of europe has depended for some time on the allies willing to play an active role in our defence. on europe’s borders and across the world today it is clear that nato continues to provide the nexus of cooperation which provides for our safety and the safety of others. clearly from time to time changes in global strategic interests mean adjusting priorities and approaches. the need for nato to maintain continued vigilance and be supported, especially in afghanistan at this present time, is essential. that is why calls for more troop commitments and logistical support need to be heeded by other european nations. i also welcome the french commitment now recently announced.
in writing. − the conservative delegation welcomes some aspects of this report, including the endorsement of nato as the core of european security, and the call for member states to invest more in defence. however, it is in essence a paean to esdp, which we have opposed both in principle and in practice for more than ten years. it refers to the treaty of lisbon, which we have strenuously opposed, and also voices support for a permanent eu operational headquarters, backing for an eu ‘white book’ on european defence, and unequivocal praise of the european defence agency. for these reasons we abstained on the report.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues support stronger multilateral eu-mediterranean relations as promoted by the barcelona process and its successor, the union for the mediterranean. this will allow for closer economic and political co-operation in terms of enhanced aid and trade facilities, as well as security issues, in exchange for the promotion of common values in the sphere of democracy and human rights and the rule of law. we wish to make clear our opposition to the treaty of lisbon in accordance with our long-held policy and we cannot therefore accept the references to it in paragraph 10 of this report. however, overall we support the report and therefore have voted in favour.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 12.50.)
mr president, on saturday night in northern ireland we were all – i think, like everyone – very shocked: two young soldiers brutally murdered in cold blood. it is northern ireland’s worst nightmare. i have been a member of this parliament for almost 20 years, and i had hoped that i would never again have to stand in this parliament and offer sympathy to the families of people who have lost their lives in northern ireland. i am very saddened that i have to do this again today. these young men did what many young men would do: they ordered a pizza from the local pizzeria, for three hours after that they were to board an aeroplane and fly to afghanistan. they did not make it. our thoughts can only go out to them today as they were cut down in the prime of life. now is not the time to say anything other than words of sympathy to their families. but it is now a time when those families need that support. those who carried out that deed will probably not listen to any words of condemnation that i say. but i have to say this: they can never succeed – they cannot win – because it is the democratic process in northern ireland that has spoken, and that must win. though it may at times have faults, it has brought a different life to my people in northern ireland: they have found a better life, they have experienced that better life, and i want to see them continue with that better life. i add my words of sympathy to the families to your own. (applause)
mr president, thank you for your words of condolence on behalf of our british soldiers who lost their lives on saturday evening. it is appreciated in northern ireland that you should, at this time, think of those who mourn in that regard. those who murdered the two soldiers seek political advance through the path of violence. i wish i could say that they will not succeed but, sadly, in northern ireland it seems that violence does pay – so much so that today we have three convicted ira terrorists as government ministers, and our joint first minister mcguinness is someone who peter robinson – at a time when he opposed terrorists in government – said had personally murdered at least 12 soldiers. he is no better than or different to the antrim terrorists who stood over the dying soldiers and pumped more bullets into their bodies. now that vile trigger-man, mcguinness – once described by mr robinson as ‘the bogside butcher’ – shamefully shares the highest office in my land. such is what happens when you treat with terrorists. i trust that the terrorists who have returned to our streets will never be treated with and that the lessons of the past will be learnt and rectified.
mr president, i had not expected to speak, but, given the fact that this is a very important parliament and this is a time of global credit crisis, and that we ought to be taken seriously by our interlocutors across the world, we should not really be focusing on issues like this when we have to build bridges and partnerships for our trade and economic activities right now.
madam president, a month ago you and i paid our second visit of the year to gaza. others have trod in our footsteps – javier solana has been there, tony blair has finally made it, and the president of parliament has been there to see for himself the circumstances in which palestinians are now living. this parliament asked for the economic blockade to be lifted, but, to a very large extent, it continues. week after week, the collective punishment of palestinian people is maintained by the israelis. our words are fine, but they have little value while israel refuses to listen. madam vice-president, i ask you to ask the president to call a meeting of the group leaders and his cabinet to consider how our words can be turned into deeds. i face the question all the time from my constituents: ‘you have an association agreement with israel. how is it that we maintain this relationship with one side, while that party ignores our interests and treats our words with such contempt?’
madam president, as we come to the first stage of the 2010 budget, i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs. it is clear – and other speakers have mentioned it – that we will be having a different type of debate this autumn because we now have the context of a european election set in the worst economic conditions for the last 60 years. i suspect, therefore, mr surján, that when it comes to looking at the budget this autumn – and you have set out traditional challenges in this document – that these will be much changed by the debates we are going to have, focusing on where we are going to be, creating new jobs for the future rather than looking backwards. the emphasis will be on the things in your document, such as green technologies, zero carbon technologies, and, above all, on seeing how ict, can foster innovation and be able to get the new growth that the european economy will need. mr maňka, in the budget for the european parliament, when we are thinking about the screening process which has just been mentioned, please do not forget the role of technologies and the way in which everything can be done in a much simpler way. we do not need traditional ways of doing things: we need to be thinking of the new ways in which we can communicate with our citizens. i suspect that by the end of the next parliament every parliamentarian bar one or two will have a blog. there are over 100 million blogs in the global system today; there were no blogs when this parliamentary term started in 2004. we have to keep our minds tuned to the future rather than trampling along the normal ways we are used to in so many contexts. lastly, i very strongly support mr surján’s proposal because it refers in both budgets to what i call ‘value for money’ and which others call ‘qualitative improvement’ of the way in which we spend it. the economic recession will be very tough on us and we will have to be able to justify the monies we are spending. i would like to thank the commissioner for everything that she has done during her term of office with regard to being able to monitor how spending is done. if, for the new incoming parliament, there could be an analysis of those lines which are strong and those which are weak, then that would be very welcome.
madam president, the fact that 70% of private employment in europe is provided by smes is a tremendous tribute to their entrepreneurial tenacity, because oppressive eu regulation makes their lives unnecessarily and extremely difficult. hence, i would repeat a call i have made before that during the currency of this economic downturn, there should be a regulation holiday for smes. the cost of eu regulation in the united kingdom has been reckoned to be gbp 107 billion over the last ten years. that is gbp 107 billion that should have been going into innovation, into intensified export efforts and into growth. yet much of that has had to be spent on mere compliance with regulation. the simplification of procurement procedures, reducing patent costs, relaxation on state aid rules and real action against unfair competition from the far east are all essential if smes are to flourish. today we need family smes – small businesses – more than ever because they have the type of commitment and sticking power to get us through this crisis. however, they need our help and they need it by lifting the dead hand of eu regulation from them.
madam president, as a small businessman with some 25 years’ experience in the ‘real world’, i support the broad thrust of the small business act and the report by mrs herczog from my committee. in particular, i would like to welcome the proposal for a directive on reduced vat rates for labour-intensive and locally supplied services, particularly at this point in time. i also welcome the amendments calling for implementation of the results of the high-level expert group on the reduction of administrative burdens. if ever small businesses needed something, it is the reduction of administrative burdens. i welcome, too, the amendment calling for a swift agreement on the community patent, adapted to the needs of smes. mind you, ‘swift’ and ‘community patent’ are not words and concepts that go comfortably together. i also welcome the call for improving access to finance because, in the current economic climate, access to finance is crucial for the survival, let alone the prospering, of small businesses. however, i have two reservations. the first concerns the proposal for a common consolidated tax base, because i fear that this would remove flexibility from smes and also from member states. secondly, i have personal doubts about the merits and benefits of changing the late payment directive. i personally have always had doubts about the worth of this measure to small businesses, because i feel that they are better off managing their own credit than leaving this to legislation.
madam president, i rise to challenge mr allister on what he said earlier in his ludicrous comments about the supposed costs of eu regulation to businesses, and in particular british businesses. these are based on some so-called studies which are being hawked around the british euro-sceptic press at the moment with ever more lurid calculations about these costs. however, those studies are wrong on three counts. first, they exaggerate the amount of legislation that is adopted at eu level instead of national level, quoting 50% or more whereas most national studies show it to be between 6 and 15%. secondly, they take no account of the fact that eu legislation, when we get it right, cuts costs to businesses and cuts red tape by having a single set of standards – common rules for the common market – instead of 27 divergent and separate ones. thirdly, they take no account of the fact that when we do impose costs, it is often deliberate in order to save money downstream. when we require cigarettes to have a health warning system, or when we require asbestos to be phased out of our products and our workplaces, it is in order to cut health costs and save lives for people downstream. these studies cynically make no attempt to balance up the whole picture, and it is a scandal that somebody who claims to represent all of his voters only looks at one side of the argument.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i support the report of the rapporteur and the work of the commission. there is no excuse for the poor state of refugee management in the eu, since the numbers of asylum applications are low by historical standards. lack of common practice, different sources of country-of-origin information and failure to implement eu laws properly means there is an uneven playing field. this is causing shopping-around by applicants and pass-the-parcel by states. another element creating unequal access to protection is that some member states are just deporting people before they can be assessed and even, in effect, bribing third countries to stop them coming. many arriving in mixed flows may well be economic migrants, which does not make them criminals. however, even if only a few are refugees, they must be identified. as mr catania says, protection in human rights concerns must be integrated into border management, particularly in the mandate of frontex. people should not be detained just because they apply for asylum. besides the single common procedure and content of protection, there needs to be practical cooperation, support and solidarity, including through the important european asylum support office, providing common sources of country information. better quality and more accurate first decisions would save money through fewer costly appeals. obliging eu states to allow asylum seekers to work after six months, if their claim is not decided, is very important: they would retain dignity and also pay tax. i am very disappointed the uk has decided to opt out from an improved reception conditions directive as that would bar automatic detention solely on the grounds of submission of an asylum claim, cut across uk fast-track detention and enforce the right to work after six months. it is pretty shameful, in my view, that my own country regards these conditions as too onerous.
madam president, the number of people seeking refugee and asylum status is growing alarmingly. as the report states, there are currently about 12 million refugees and about 26 million internally displaced persons worldwide. this is hardly surprising, as some countries in continents such as africa and asia slide further into political chaos and the world slips further into a financial and economic crisis of as yet unknown depths. what we can be sure of is that over the coming months and years there will be yet more refugees and asylum-seekers. it will surprise no-one that the european parliament solution is harmonisation of national asylum systems. the report proposes a common european asylum system and a common asylum support office with common standards for granting refugee and asylum status. it proposes that national governments should not be able to hold an asylum-seeker in detention solely on the grounds that they are asylum applicants, and that refugees should be allowed to request movement from one european country to another. it proposes that where an applicant is held in detention, that person should have the right to a remedy before a national court. all this is a recipe for chaos and gridlock in national asylum systems. many, if not most, of those people who seek refugee and asylum status in european countries far from home are, of course, economic migrants seeking a better life. and who can blame them? but the easier we make it for them to come to europe, the more will come. the common systems proposed here will make it even harder for nation states to protect their own borders and easier for untold numbers of economic migrants to cross those borders. britain needs even stricter controls, not more lax ones imposed by the european union.
rapporteur. − mr president, the european commission produces its annual competition report and it is traditional for the european parliament to cast its eye over the report and to produce an own-initiative reaction to it. in this case, because of timing factors, the reports for 2006 and 2007 have been brought together but – taking up one of the points mentioned by commissioner barrot a little earlier – it is the case that the context of our consideration of these reports has changed rather markedly, since we in fact began the exercise of considering the report some time ago. at that time, we were focused on the whole business of the modernisation of competition policy, the significant amount of work taken forward by former commissioner, mario monti, and by the current commissioner, neelie kroes, and on looking at the impact of that in terms of the commission’s ability to deal with the abuse of market power and to deal more effectively with mergers and state aid. by and large, that has been a very good story in these reports and this is very clear from the reaction that we have from parliament’s own report. we have seen record activity on the part of the commission in terms of dealing with hardcore cartels, we have seen the development of the leniency system, we have seen record fines put into operation by the commission and we have seen record activity in terms of mergers and state aid notifications as well. this is a process that is gathering pace in terms of modernisation because the commission is currently bringing forward proposals, in a white paper, on introducing private damages. that is something, similarly, that our committee and parliament have been supportive of. our committee has drawn attention to two specific concerns – what we regard as being the unequal relationship between producers and retailers, particularly in relation to food retailing. parliament has, in fact, put down a written declaration on this, signed by more than half of the members. our committee has also expressed some concern about abusive practices in the services sector. however, i mention the change of context because, of course, we all recognise that since the reports were published by the commission, the commission’s work – in terms of state aid particularly – has really taken on a rather different dimension. almost on a daily basis, the commission is now looking at the effect of the bail-outs that are taking place in the context of the current financial turmoil. it is very important – and our report says so – that, in addressing those matters, we recognise some of the challenges that there are for an effective, open market. it is very important that, when the commission gives its approval, it is giving that approval in ways which are compatible with the treaty and do not create such significant market power in future that it becomes a scenario for abuse in its own right. the banking sector in the united kingdom at the moment is one very clear area where there will have to be, when economic circumstances become a little calmer, a general review of the new architecture that we have got and of whether that architecture really is compatible with the operation of a free, fair and open market. we have received reassurances from commissioner kroes in this regard but, nonetheless, our committee has put those pointers down in this report. generally our view is that the commission is to be congratulated in its work and that is the thrust of the report, which i anticipate will be passed tomorrow by a very large majority.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr schwab, and the members of the house who have been involved in the preparatory work for the really constructive and committed cooperation which has made an agreement at first reading possible. it is a very technical provision, but it is a regulation of great and far-reaching political significance. what we are about to decide today is a milestone in improving road safety. this regulation makes the european car safer. it is a milestone in the environmental performance of european vehicles, because environmental performance is not only achieved by making engines that use less fuel, but the car offers other ways of saving fuel and reducing emissions. finally, it is also an important contribution to our policy of better regulation, because it leads to a really drastic simplification of the whole regulatory environment. let me start with the security aspect, which was also the most important aspect here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road users is not compromised. the regulations that are being made here and that will be standard in european cars from 2011 onwards will mean that we will have 35 000 fewer deaths and serious injuries per year on european roads. in particular, the introduction of electronic stability programmes for passenger cars and commercial vehicles can save almost 3 000 lives and prevent 25 000 people from serious injury each year. this is a safety feature which has so far been very rare, especially in commercial vehicles, which are frequently involved in serious accidents. the costs to producers are far outweighed by the expected benefits to the overall economy. the package of measures makes an important contribution to the implementation of the european strategy to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. it makes low-rolling resistance tyres compulsory and requires the installation of tyre pressure monitoring systems and switch-point indicators. these measures will reduce average co2 emissions by 6 to 7 g co2 per km. so this is really a very remarkable contribution. i would also like to point out that this proposal will significantly reduce noise pollution from traffic, because the reduction of rolling noise from tyres will significantly improve the situation here. let me take this opportunity to emphasise once again that we will only achieve sustainable mobility in europe if we take the potential of all the factors involved in an integrated approach, i.e. the vehicle itself - we are talking about this today - but we must also talk about the transport infrastructure and the behaviour of the people involved in transport. i am very pleased that the european parliament shares this view. as regards simplification, this regulation will simplify the regulatory environment in an impressive way. this single regulation repeals 50 existing directives and replaces them, wherever possible, by international regulations. reduced administrative costs, improved transparency and increased international harmonisation will result in significant savings for industry, which will help to strengthen its competitiveness. at the same time, member states benefit from reduced administrative burdens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's automobile industry is not left in the lurch. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. let me be clear about this: what we are about to decide today is one of the results of the cars-21 process, in which we have worked intensively with the manufacturers, with the member states, with civil society, on what the framework conditions for the european automotive industry of the future should look like and how we envision the european car of the future. i would like to say very emphatically that even in the crisis - and especially in the crisis - european manufacturers must not fail to develop and bring to market cars which meet the requirements of the beginning of this century, and the requirements are quite clear. consumers want vehicles that are more fuel efficient, more environmentally friendly and safer. what cars 21 has come up with as a vision for the european car of the future and what is the common line of all those involved for the future of this industry is exactly this: we want europe to compete internationally not only with the best quality cars, but also with the lowest consumption cars, the most environmentally friendly cars and the safest cars, and i am firmly convinced that with such products the european industry will maintain its leading position on the international car market. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, on behalf of my group i would like to thank my colleague andreas schwab for handling a very complex dossier very skilfully. we should also perhaps say in the absence of council that the negotiations there have been tough but fair, and we have a very good outcome. i would like to pick up on a number of points built on what the commissioner said. i am privileged to have been part of the cars 21 initiative from the very beginning, and we are now seeing the impact of that integrated approach. this is important terminology and a classic example of how a number of different provisions have been brought together in a rolling update of the regulatory framework affecting motor vehicles, but one which the industry is expecting. we set down a road map in cars 21 about the environmental and safety challenges that we expected the industry to meet, and the crucial thing there is to give them stability and knowledge so that they can plan and design their new products in a sensible and sequenced way, albeit with demanding deadlines and targets. we do not want to resile from those challenging targets, but to give them that stability. as günter verheugen pointed out, with the industry in such a dire position at the moment because of lack of demand, that regulatory stability is crucially important. i would like to highlight two points. firstly, the agreement to bring in electronic stability control systems at the earliest possible date is a very major contribution to safety and i very much welcome that. those of us who have had the opportunity to test those systems will understand their efficiency. secondly, i want to highlight issues around the international framework, the repeal of the eu directives and their incorporation into national legislation. i welcome that, but i think it is now more important than ever, commissioner, that that process becomes much more transparent about the line the commission is taking on negotiating those directives which are being done in another body, a un body, and not within this house.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, let me begin by congratulating mr schwab on his report and thanking him for his extremely cooperative approach to this whole matter. last thursday night, a colleague of ours, linda mcavan, was involved in a very serious car accident. her car was destroyed, but she walked away relatively unhurt. this was because the car she was driving had the most modern safety features and this enabled her not to be seriously injured. that is the context in which we are discussing this report. road safety saves lives, as commissioner verheugen commented, and is so important to the well-being of many families in the european union. we should not lose sight of that, even in these very difficult times. that is why i was determined to oppose those people in this parliament and in the council who wanted to weaken this commission proposal. i believe the original commission proposal is a very good one, and we were determined to resist changes to it. there was one main weakness, however, in that proposal, which is that there was no provision for the selling-off of tyres that did not meet the new requirements after the implementation date. i believe that to be a major flaw. that is why i proposed to the committee – and the committee accepted – an amendment stating that tyres that did not meet the standards after the implementation date should be sold off after 12 months. however, in the current circumstances of the car industry, given that cars are not being sold, it was quite clear in the discussions we had with the council that, in fact, 12 months was probably unrealistic, and we had to consider the serious environmental consequences of getting rid of tyres that are perfectly good and sound. therefore, we were prepared to accept, in the trialogue, 30 months after the implementation date as being the period before which tyres not meeting the requirements should be sold off. however, thanks to the intervention of mr schwab, if the commission believes that there could be an earlier date, that is provided for in the comitology procedure. this was an important area of strengthening. i would also draw attention to the important environmental measures – particularly tyre pressure monitoring systems – which will not only save on co2 but also make cars safer, because under-inflated tyres are a cause of many accidents. we have reduced rolling resistance and included gear shift indicators in this proposal, which was not in the original proposal. this will not only benefit the environment but also save motorists money – it is cash in people’s pockets, which is very important at this time. the point about safety has been well made. as i say, tyre pressure monitoring systems are very important, because under-inflated tyres – much to my shame the united kingdom is one of the worst culprits for having under-inflated tyres – are a cause of accidents. lane departure warning systems and electronic stability control are also important. i congratulate mr schwab on bringing the implementation of these forward by a year, because they will be of major advantage in terms of safety. as mr harbour and the commissioner have pointed out, simplification is part of this proposal and that is very important. finally, i would draw attention to what we have done in terms of demanding greater emphasis, in road services, on reducing noise. this is because road traffic noise is a cause of stress, and stress is a cause of ill health and, indeed, of fatalities, and it is therefore important to address that issue.
madam president, overnight we have had another terrorist murder in my constituency of northern ireland. before turning to the subject in hand, let me take a moment to express condolences to the family of my policeman constituent who has been so brutally murdered by the ira and to condemn this further act of gross terrorism. in regard to the matter before the house, i would have to say that i am rarely lobbied in my constituency in favour of an eu regulation and i suppose i would have to say that on even fewer occasions am i persuaded. but on this occasion i was pleased to be persuaded, because this proposal contains provisions which both improve road safety and happily assist a company in northern ireland which is at the cutting edge of technology and production of tyre pressure monitoring systems. thus a proposal which makes the fitting of such systems mandatory is not just good for road safety; it is good also for jobs in my constituency. with devastating levels of road deaths across the eu, measures which make our cars – and thus our roads – safer have to be welcome. it is one area above all where regulation has a definite role to play. it should be sensible, rational and necessary regulation, not regulation for regulation’s sake. but on this occasion i think that this report has got the balance right, and i congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the idea behind the directive on integrated pollution prevention and control (ippc) was to enable us to achieve maximum environmental benefit for minimum cost, giving much flexibility to industry and to member states. however, as the commissioner has pointed out, that principle is being abused: many member states have interpreted best available techniques in manners not intended by the commission. therefore, i very much support the rapporteur’s idea of setting a minimum standard. the fact that our rapporteur is german perhaps has some involvement in this; germany has a very good record in this instance. i do not see why a member state that has invested in making sure that its industry is setting high environmental standards should be undermined competitively and environmentally by those member states that are not prepared to make similar investments. i want to turn also to the opportunity this recast directive gives us to amend the directive on large combustion plants. i am very keen on seeing emission performance standards introduced for large coal and gas plants, because of the huge quantities of co2 they emit. however, there is much debate taking place as a result of the concern we now have about global warning, concern which perhaps was not felt quite so acutely when we put this directive into law. to some extent there is a balance between old, traditional pollutants and the new concern of global-warming gases. in my own country, it is quite likely that we are going to face severe electricity shortages from the end of 2015, with the closure of many old coal-fired power plants that have not been modernised in line with large combustion plant requirements. personally, i am prepared to see a trade-off. i am prepared at second reading to negotiate a derogation – an extension of the large combustion plant requirements – to keep old plants running so long as we do not end up building new coal-fired power plants, locking us into high emissions of co2 for decades to come. however, it has to be a genuine trade-off: there has to be a genuine commitment from member states to make the changes necessary to reduce their co2 emissions in order to allow the continued pollution from existing plants for a few years longer.
mr president, i support this measure and its aim of promoting best available techniques for environmental protection, but i do have concerns about parliament’s methodology on it. this is essentially a directive for regulating heavy industry, but buried in the text and in the annex are a number of paragraphs that directly affect farmers. there was no opportunity for the agriculture committee to give its opinion and, unfortunately, some of the proposals that affect farmers are quite inappropriate. in particular, the requirements on manure and slurry duplicate the nitrates directive and the water framework directive. the lower thresholds on poultry drag small family farms into a complex regulatory framework designed to control global industrial giants. this directive is not the place to regulate small farms.
mr president, at the heart of this directive is the problem of control and of costing. how can we ensure that laws adopted by the eu as a whole are applied, and how can we legislate without knowing the cost of what we want? the rapporteur wants to bring in a universal system of uniform emission limits, which would have to be worked out in a huge bureaucratic exercise that would take at least eight years. no one knows how much it would cost – it is called the european safety net. i tabled amendment 134 on staying outside the high-emission industries with standards based on best available techniques, leaving the implementation of such measures to the discretion of the member states. that is realistic and affordable and observes the principle of subsidiarity. if the european safety net is adopted, i hope the council and the commission put pressure on parliament to have an impact assessment done on the idea. the question is whether we have the will to make a uniform european union-wide system – a european safety net – work. the answer is that all the evidence so far shows the member states lack that will. they will not support a european environment inspectorate: they want to stick with national enforcement agencies. the right answer to our quandary is not to invent a huge new bureaucracy that will never spring into life, but to use our money to bring up the standards of morale of national enforcement agencies to do their job in helping to put eu law into practice. i commend to you amendment 129, which exempts standby generators in health-care facilities from pollution controls that would treat them as though they were operating 100% of their time. that amendment will save money at a critical time for health budgets. i commend to you the amendments on large combustion plants: unless we get these into the directive, my country will face power blackouts. people have enough to blame the eu for without that! my final point concerns compromises and mr turmes’s attack on me: the first reading is not a time for compromises, but rather a time when we fire off all our amendments and ideas and discuss them. we cannot have compromises that prevent discussion. finally, i commend to the future parliament the current rule 55, which would allow us to have a renewed first reading of this very important directive. it seems wrong to have the first reading in the old parliament and the second reading, without a first reading, in the new one.
mr president, although i support the aims of the proposals to simplify and clarify the requirements of the legislation and ensure better and more even implementation, i have three primary concerns. firstly, the commission has not only sought to simplify and ensure better implementation, it has also greatly increased the scope in certain areas. i think there is a balance to strike between environmental protection, on the one hand, and on bureaucracy and cost to industry and smaller installations, such as farmers and health-care installations, on the other hand. secondly, the minimum requirements for large combustion plants present significant problems for parts of the uk power sector. i am told these concerns are shared by poland, france, italy, spain and some eastern and southern member states. the requirements would mean that, without a time-limited derogation, the possibility for short-term continuation of national emissions reduction plans or energy security would be at risk. finally, i am greatly concerned by and opposed to the european safety net. i do not think this is a good idea. i find that the minimum emissions limit values would become the default values rather than focusing on full application of the more ambitious best available techniques, and could well reduce the level of environmental protection, whilst at the same time vastly increasing the costs of implementation. i would ask all members to consider these points carefully before voting.
mr president, i will stick specifically to agriculture. first of all i have to admit that i am a farmer but i do not have pigs, i do not have poultry, though i do have a greenhouse in the garden. i think it is very important that the commissioner realises that, as has already been said, it is specifically designed for industry. commissioner, i beg that you rethink the situation when it comes to the directives on agriculture. we already know that agriculture is under huge pressure. we have heard many times in this chamber the question of food security. please reconsider the amendments which are particularly damaging to it. i think that many of the amendments that are not connected with agriculture are extremely good and i congratulate mr vernola on his report. commissioner, you talked in your presentation about distorting competition. i am going to ask you a simple question, and please try to answer it today. will you put in place legislation to stop imports of foodstuffs coming into the european union which are not reared to the same standards as we have in the european union?
rapporteur. − mr president, i look forward to this debate, and particularly to hearing from those who are not so keen on enhancing transparency and public access to documents. i wish to begin by thanking the seven ministers from the eu who have declared their support for my report. in particular, they are, and i quote: ‘therefore, glad to see that parliament’s committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs adopted a report on 17 february 2009 that shares our vision of a more transparent union’. i find it staggering that, when we are trying to reconnect to our citizens, people do not support transparency and openness. i find it equally staggering that, when we are trying to connect the institutions back to the public, there is a lack of willingness to enhance public scrutiny and accountability. some members have raised doubts about whether all the amendments that my report proposes are within the scope of the legal basis of the regulation – article 255 of the treaty. i should like to set their minds at rest: the object of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 is: ‘to give the public a right of access to documents of the institution which is as wide as possible. that right of public access to the documents of the institution is related to the democratic nature of those institutions.’ do not simply take my word for it – i am quoting verbatim from the turco judgment of the court of justice. it is in the spirit of that judgment that we must interpret article 255 of the treaty. take our amendment 44 on classified documents. it is simply disingenuous to say, as the commission has, that the classification of documents as confidential has no link with public access to such documents. under the present version of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, documents may only be classified in order to safeguard the essential interests protected under article 4(1). so the link is already there. what we have done is to draw the logical consequences from that link and incorporate rules on the classification of documents into the regulation itself. these rules, which are carefully modelled on the rules the council and the commission already apply, define limits on the public’s right to access to documents, just as article 255 requires, and there is nothing in the treaty to prevent the institutions adopting these in the regulation. take our amendment 24, which refers to agencies and bodies created by the institution. regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, as amended, will lay down the principles, conditions and limits of public access to the documents of those agencies, but it will not in itself create obligations for agencies. if you read our amendment 29, for example, you will see that the regulation applies only to documents held by the institutions, although it does set the standards that agencies will be expected to follow in adopting their own rules on public access to their documents, in accordance, i might add, with the joint declaration adopted by the council, the commission and parliament on 30 may 2001. let me also point out for those who cannot witness it, the sadness that the council is not here to attach the due importance to this extremely important report. i know some of you were also concerned that we went too far in seeking to ensure that member states did not undermine the level of transparency the regulation aims at. i believe i have come a long way to meet concerns, as you will see from compromise amendments that remind the member states of their duties under article 10 of the treaty not to stand in the way of the achievement of the community’s objectives, including transparency and democracy. the amendments by mr nassauer may bring some reassurances to his group and other meps who are concerned that some private information may get into the public domain. that will not happen and cannot happen under my report. there is still the space to think that personal and private data will remain protected, so i will listen with great interest as to why those who oppose this regulation do so.
rapporteur. − mr president, those were interesting remarks, but i am afraid they have very little to do with the contents of my report. i would point out that we have nothing to fear from public scrutiny and we have absolutely everything to fear as institutions from hiding information. we become more vulnerable. commissioner, it is official documents which are accessible. go back and look at the report. the space to think. official documents. within the notion of a space to think, that will not be official. go back to the report. accept our principles. it has been an interesting debate but i have to say that the recast – which you defend – is not in the spirit of the interinstitutional agreement and it is not enough. you say it has worked well, but i am afraid the recast ignores vital jurisprudence on what actually needs to be done. my reasons for delaying the final vote are so that we have absolutely maximum flexibility to negotiate with the political parties and with the institutions. i would further point out that there is nothing to prevent the commission from amending its proposal at any time after the vote tomorrow, except perhaps institutional and political reluctance. i find it somewhat patronising to be told that we will get action plans. commissioner, i do not doubt your personal commitment to openness and transparency, but i do not want action plans for our citizens. i want rights enshrined in law which cannot be taken away – not gifts, but rights. parliament must therefore put political pressure on the presidency to negotiate and it may be that we will have to negotiate without the commission. yes, commissioner, i know the council is not here, but i do not give up on one council. i have been in politics long enough to know that you fight and you fight. let me finally quote this president, if you will allow me: ‘my administration is committed to creating an unprecedented level of openness in government. we will work together to ensure the public trust and establish a system of transparency, public participation and collaboration. openness will strengthen our democracy and promote efficiency and effectiveness in government’. so said barack obama on 21 january 2009. i await a comparable announcement from the commission or, indeed, from president barroso.
before we start the vote, i should like to inform members that we are today introducing a new information system for the votes in the chamber. the main feature is the display, on one of the large screens, of the official voting list prepared by the tabling desk. the display will highlight each single vote as it is announced, thereby making it easier for all members to follow the vote. the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i seek clarification. is it the case that the president has ruled that we will apply the recast procedure to the vote on the krahmer report today and the vote on the cashman report tomorrow? if that is the case, my group requests that we delay the vote on the krahmer report until tomorrow, so that we can investigate the implications of the application of the recast procedure to that vote.
the president is considering these two points. when we get to the krahmer report we will take your procedural motion.
i understand that there has been some confusion about this point, but the president has said that for the sake of good order today – and i am pleased to see so many flags in the chamber; i am actually wearing one in my pocket here – the tibetan flag may be displayed. this gives me the opportunity to welcome to the chamber mr tashi wangdi, the representative of his holiness the dalai lama. (sustained applause)
thank you, mr zaleski – the applause speaks for itself.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, if i understood you correctly, you are indicating that the presidency does wish to apply the recast procedure to the krahmer report today and the cashman report. in that case, my group requests that we delay the vote until tomorrow so that we can study the implications of this.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, it behoves mr watson, if he is making a suggestion that we should consider the recast implications, to explain to us now what the recast implications are. he might like to have a word with mr corbett before answering. i am fairly relaxed about this, but it would be much more sensible, since we are teed up to vote on this and we are unlikely to change our opinion on the actual voting – plus, minus or abstention – in the light of the recast procedures, to vote now when we have the time rather than hurry and add this vote to the list tomorrow when we have a lot of other things to do. therefore, i am opposed to moving it.
i know in general terms what the issue is about, but i regret that i am unable to inform you of the specifics. we are now, however, voting on amendments which have gone through committee, which are regarded as admissible, which are substantive and which may or may not represent the view of the house.
i am advised that it has been ruled on and only certain amendments have been declared admissible, as is normal in any house. i think it might be helpful if a statement is made tomorrow by the president taking the vote so that there is clarification. but we must proceed to the vote now. i am sorry for those who are disappointed. – before the vote on amendment 88:
mr president, on most of our voting lists amendments 88 and 89 are down as inadmissible and there is no indication as to how we should vote. whilst you might well be wanting us to vote, we have a small problem with this, because we do not know what we are voting on and we do not know which way we should be voting. may i suggest that some more thought be given to this new procedure we are using for recast, because there seems to be a lack of coordination and communication around the different political groups.
mr president, some of the amendments you ruled inadmissible were also ruled inadmissible by the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety under the recast procedures. this parliament has no right to introduce legislation. its chance of influence is in amending legislation put before us. it seems that, in the way we have interpreted the recast procedures, we have castrated ourselves. could you inform the president that if this parliament is to demonstrate its true virility, we need to review these?
the oral amendment was incorporated in the first of the four votes. that is what it says on the voting list. it was incorporated in the first of the split votes and was rejected.
that is correct.
no. i asked if there were any objections to the oral amendment. there were none so it then formed part of the amendment which was voted on in the first roll-call vote and was rejected. that is the situation. – before the vote on paragraph 31:
mr president, we do need to make progress, but i see that there has been the most absurd inflation of roll-call votes. the last report to be voted – the herczog report – has a roll call on every single amendment. could we call upon mr corbett and other luminaries to devise some rationing system so that we can actually get to lunch?
and mr beazley is a very devout member of the ppe-de group! (laughter)that concludes the vote.
mr president, it is curious that, whatever the crisis, the answer in this house always seems to be greater european integration. most people beset by the economic squalls we have had in the past six months respond by seeing the situation as scary and possibly painful. however, in this house we see it as an opportunity for more regulation, more unification and more harmonisation at eu level, as this report shows. the problem with this is that the people making that decision will be shielded from the consequences of it. living in their palaces and chancelleries, surrounded and cocooned in their motorised convoys, their chauffeured cars and their official banquets, they will not be paying the price that our constituents will as a result of these economic policies. it seems to me axiomatic that we should respond to the economic crisis with more flexibility and by allowing countries to tailor their interest rates to suit their needs. instead, we are doing precisely the opposite.
mr president, and so the european union carries on acquiring one by one the attributes and trappings of nationality: a legal system, common external borders and now a common policy on who is allowed to cross those borders and settle within its territory. one by one, it has taken on all of the characteristics that international law recognises as definitive of statehood. i wanted to compliment you, mr president, on your ruling that it was acceptable for meps to demonstrate – as my neighbour did – little tibetan flags on their desks. it stands in marked contrast to the way we had our placards snatched off us when we dared to display the word ‘referendum’ in this chamber. i would like to ask you – because i know you, and other members of this house, are interested in this subject – to ponder the hypocrisy of being in favour of national self-determination in tibet but against national self-determination within the european union. if you think i am being extreme by drawing a parallel between an authoritarian state in china and the european union, prove me wrong by putting your treaty to the people in the referendums that you promised. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, first of all i would like to welcome the report and thank the rapporteur for his good work. i have to admit that it is very rare for me to be lobbied, in northern ireland, to vote on an eu directive in a positive way, but i was on this one, and i was delighted to see such a positive vote today. for once it will bring some good news to my province, which certainly needs it. better safety and more environmentally sensitive and sensible proposals are always welcome. in the longer term, i hope it will also save existing jobs and maybe create new ones in the area. this is something that we can all welcome as far as europe is concerned, being positive, good thinking, rather than holding the economy back.
mr president, i am not entirely happy with this report and the manner in which we dealt with it here today, but i did nevertheless vote for the report because i believe it reduces red tape. industrial installations make a significant contribution to pollutant emissions in europe, but heavy industry is one of the drivers of our economy and needs to be encouraged to produce greener emissions. this is a major issue for my region of the west midlands, which is one of the most industrialised in the uk. the integrated approach is welcome, but the stringent rules in this report are of concern, and i am concerned that the implementation costs should not be so heavy that they undermine the environmental protection provisions. we need checks on the european safety net and we need to look at issues such as the spreading of manure and slurry which, i believe, would be disproportionate to the environmental benefits we get. administrative burdens and costs have to be proportionate to the environmental benefits, because if that is the case we will have a win-win situation which would help businesses meet their environmental commitments, bring significant support in the fight against climate change, and have the potential to improve health conditions for young and old people across my region.
mr president, i voted against his report. while there may well be good points in it, it eventually went too far. i am in favour of streamlining european union regulations, but not if you make it more bureaucratic, difficult to operate and unfavourable to industry. the attempt to bring agriculture into this legislation is, to me, totally unacceptable and is a step too far. it must be rejected. to bring in soil protection is not the responsibility of the european parliament, nor can it be done throughout the whole of the european union. that should be the responsibility of the national governments. i have to ask why the committee on agriculture was not consulted on this particular issue. you cannot bring in regulations that are destructive and make pig and poultry farmers go out of business. the truth is that we are bringing in regulations in europe, and restricting production in europe, whilst allowing imports into the european union that are not produced to the same standards as they are in europe. i cannot accept that.
mr president, there was some controversy about the recasting procedure and my name was mentioned in this context. i would like firstly to point out that the rapporteur who introduced this into our rules of procedure was marylène renault, not me. perhaps a word of explanation is necessary concerning the correct actions of the president of the parliament. we often have pieces of legislation amending for the 15th, 16th or 17th time some existing pieces of legislation. that is very confusing for people who have to deal with this legislation. we have, rightly, embarked on a procedure for codifying such legislation – putting it in a single, readable, manageable text. we frequently have that before us and, because it does not change the substance, we have a simplified procedure for that. however, when it comes to recasting, we have a difficulty. there, the commission is putting forward a proposal to change one element of a package of existing legislation and to simply codify the rest without changing it. we have voluntarily restricted ourselves to tabling amendments of substance only to the part that the commission is proposing to modify, and not to use the codification of the remaining part as an opportunity to reopen the substance. maybe we should, as has been suggested by one of our colleagues. however, there would be a problem under the treaty with regard to the demarcation of the right of initiative between us and the commission. it is certainly not, however, an issue where colleagues were right to complain about the actions of the president. under our existing rules – which we gave ourselves as a parliament and which we approved by an absolute majority of our members – the correct procedure has been followed.
mr president, i voted against this report because of its attempts to totally unnecessarily entwine agriculture into the huge burden of regulation which it would import. i recently met with some producers in my constituency. i saw the paperwork that has been heaped upon a particular producer because he is already within the ambit of these regulations. i shudder to think what is going to happen to ordinary producers of very modest proportions when they, too, are subjected to this huge and totally unnecessary burden of regulation. i think it is a report that takes us very much in the wrong direction and, at the very least, i am happy that i was here to vote against it.
mr president, i did not ask to give an explanation of vote on the maňka report, because i was going to combine it with this one, because the two deal with how we are going to look at the budget in the following year, and i am not going to be here in the following year because i am disappearing off in june. i know that there is great upset across the other side of the chamber about this matter. i just wanted to lay down a few ground rules that have been ignored so far in these reports. we should watch out for how much money we are funding ngos and agencies, where huge problems exist with how european taxpayers’ money is being spent at this time. i give the example of the european fundamental rights agency, which is currently under investigation by olaf. in general terms, at a time of huge economic downturn and hardship, maybe we should be looking at ourselves to tweak our budget so we can send more monies back to national exchequers where it is desperately needed and where the pain is being felt. and certainly at this time when big – almost irrational – decisions are being made by businesses and government departments around the world in employment matters, we should concern ourselves with having only one seat for this parliament.
mr president, in relation to the two budgetary votes, may i point out that a lot of people are asking: what contribution can the european budget make in terms of a fiscal stimulus in times of economic crisis? the answer is: very little. the whole of the european union’s budget amounts to less than 1% of gdp and it has been a declining proportion of gdp in recent years. it is, in macroeconomic terms, a very small budget and this is something that many of the eurosceptics would do well to remember. on the other hand, in certain areas it can be of huge structural significance and gradually improve the structure of europe’s economy. on research and development, on some aspects of regional fund spending and social spending, we can help prepare our economy for the recovery. i am glad that those aspects of the budget are gradually representing a greater proportion of the budget, and agriculture and some others are declining. however, i think that trend needs to be accelerated and we need to continue much more rapidly in that direction of shifting resources to where they can make a real difference.
mr president, i voted in the same way as mr busuttil on this particular report, and was concerned at the level of argument. in fact the bilge that was coming up in this debate was unbelievable, exemplified by my colleague who has just left, mr fatuzzo. it is complete rubbish to say that, because three old people lose some money in a voluntary way, then we have got to ban online gambling across a continent. this debate showed up many national differences, and there was no honesty in the debate at all. the committee on the internal market and consumer affairs commissioned a study which showed that online gaming had no more damaging effect than ordinary gaming in a place run by a national lottery. there was one reasonable part, which was the part about fair return to guarantee integrity in sport. alas, this debate has driven the online gamblers and the sporting governing bodies further apart than they have ever been before, rather than drawing them together to try and work out a common solution. it has absolutely shown the need for some forum where those two groups can come together and discuss this matter. alas, this is obviously not that place.
mr president, we all know that gambling is a very emotive subject. you only have to listen to the speeches that have been made before me. there are those who believe that gambling is the work of the devil and that those who take part deserve to be cast into hellfire and deserve all the losses they have on this earth and in the afterlife. now that is an extreme view, granted, but if you were to look at some of the language used in this report – the issues of a transparent sector that safeguards the public and consumer interests, tackling fraud and other criminal behaviour, prevention of consumer detriment – those same emotions are expressed, albeit in a far more toned-down way, in this report when it comes to online gambling. but consider the hypocrisy of this report. it talks about online gambling in this negative and detrimental way, but it says nothing about the state monopolies that are hiding behind the emotive language to continue to drive out private innovative competitors. let us be honest in this debate as to what it is all about. it is about keeping state monopolies, and we know where that leads to: it leads down the road to serfdom.
mr president, quality food is not an aspiration in europe: it must continue as a reality. but its production requires a fair and competitive return. our agricultural producers must be able to earn enough to cover the extra cost generated by eu food-safety, animal-welfare and environmental requirements. when faced with cheap and inferior imports, the competitive advantage that quality should give is often not enough: hence the role that needs to be played by cap funding in keeping our producers competitive. that has to be the quid pro quo for meeting the high costs imposed by eu regulation. i also deplore the continuing exploitation of producers by the major distributors who now dominate the european food markets. their abuse of their position of dominance continues, with producers exploited at every turn, even to the point of having to pay for their promotions.
mr president, thank you for giving me this opportunity to explain how i voted. it may come as no surprise to you that i actually voted in favour of this report, given that the author was a very good conservative, british colleague of mine. what we need to be wary of in these times of economic difficulties is the call for ever more protectionism and the call to suspend our normal rules on competition and state aid. we see the call for protectionism from president sarkozy, arguing that taxpayers’ money should be used to protect the french car industry. we see similar packages in america. i was interested when i saw an advertisement the other day in an american magazine sponsored by the american car companies, which said, ‘you did not want to buy our cars. therefore we are going to take your money anyway through your taxpayers’ money to keep our companies alive’. this is what it seems to have come down to. because the companies were not supplying the goods and services that consumers wanted to buy, we are now throwing aside rules on state aid and keeping up companies that may not survive in the long term. we understand the importance of jobs, but let us make sure that we are making good economic decisions.
mr president, i supported this report because – as we have already heard – small businesses are the backbone of our economy. many member states’ plans for economic recovery stress the important role small businesses can play in bringing us out of the present crisis. ninety-nine point two per cent of my region’s businesses employ fewer than 49 people. the west midlands has the highest proportion of small businesses of any region in the uk. providing that proper consideration is made of member states’ competencies in areas such as collective bargaining rights, this report will go a long way towards making sure that we all think small first. i especially welcome the emphasis in this report on the difficulties that small businesses are facing in accessing credit, time and resources for education and training, and – most importantly – for research. national borders, increasingly, are irrelevant to small businesses, which are doing more business with partners across europe. however, we do need to protect them when they engage in cross-border trading through measures such as my recovery of debtors’ assets report. the eu also has a key role to play in ensuring that smes have access to funding, which means we should ensure that non-bank microcredit is made available. we can do this by using structural funds and developing microcredit institutions without taking money from the taxpayer. this initiative can curb unemployment and restart our economy.
mr president, i welcome this report, with just one or two small reservations. we have heard from my colleague, mrs gill, how important small businesses are to the economy and how they are bearing the brunt of the difficulties at the moment. the trouble is that the european union is geared entirely for big businesses, whether it is about legislation, access to markets or funding. we often talk about better regulation, but what we really need is proportionality. we have to ensure that our legislation is proportional to the problems we are dealing with, and particularly in the ippc, which we have talked about today, it is really about big business not about small businesses and we should reflect that. i welcome initiatives like jasmine, which i think are moving us in the right direction, but we need to think in terms of funding, market access and legislation and about the specific needs of small business. let me make one particular plea: we have a single market but we do not have a single community patent. we have been at this for years and years now, and it really is a disgrace that we cannot sort out this problem. it could by itself be the biggest help for businesses in the european union. let us have some action.
mr president, i should like to thank the interpreters for staying around, because they did not have the option that mr beazley took a long time ago of going for lunch. i should explain that being in a big group is not everything it seems. it is very difficult to get speaking time in some of the key debates if you are not in agreement with the big group’s line, without either dramatically compromising your position or kissing backside in endless mind-numbingly boring meetings, and that is why, for people like me, explanations of vote are very important. i suppose, in general terms, i should be welcoming the small business act, or indeed any attempt to recognise the needs of small business. in fact, it was bad regulation when i was running my own small business that got me into politics in the first place – just trying to change one particular thing. however, i am pretty sure that any regulation that comes from this place will certainly be creating more small businesses. alas, they tend to be big businesses at the moment, which, when you add a lot of european regulation, gradually turn into small businesses employing smaller numbers of people, because they reduce their turnover because of that regulation and move jobs from our continent. we in this house have to be very careful that we encourage individuals to start up new businesses and do not encourage jobs to move continents because we are regulating jobs out of existence.
mr president, like the previous speaker, i would also like to thank all the interpreters for having to listen to our speeches. i am sure it gives you much less pleasure than it gives us. two of my personal mottoes, for reasons which may not be obvious, are ‘small is beautiful’ and ‘size does not matter’. i represent london, which i think is the greatest city in the world, capital of the greatest country in the world. even though we no longer have our smokestack industries, we are full of small, innovative businesses in the creative industries and fashion industry, creating jobs all the time in a real growth area. as the previous speaker said, we see a lot of european regulation aimed at supposedly helping business, but quite often it is the result of lobbying by large businesses who want to keep small businesses out. there was one notable large business i had dinner with a few years ago that described small businesses as freeloaders. it is that sort of attitude that we need to tackle. we also need to help small businesses when it comes to public procurement and competing with large businesses but, especially in the current times, in dealing with the shortage of credit to make sure that viable businesses continue to grow and create wealth and jobs in the european union.
in writing. − i realise that the costa report deals with technical aspects of air services between the union and israel. nevertheless, i voted against the report as a sign of my protest at the israeli government’s outrageous actions in gaza, even if there is no excuse for the rocket attacks on israeli settlements orchestrated by hamas militants and one can understand that israel reacts. the problem is that the recent invasion of gaza was totally disproportionate and largely indiscriminate, with casualty rates one hundred times higher amongst innocent palestinian men, women and children than amongst the israeli army.
in writing. − i am opposed to moves towards a common immigration and asylum policy in europe. i believe that a harmonised asylum system will undermine the uk’s sovereign right to decide for itself who should and should not be allowed to claim asylum in my country. furthermore, i believe that a common asylum system will weaken the accountability of british ministers and parliamentarians to the citizens who elect them. i accept that developed countries like my own have a humanitarian responsibility to people from third countries who have faced or would face persecution, torture or death if they were to return. however, i am worried that by taking away the uk’s independent ability to monitor and regulate asylum entrants we would potentially be exposing ourselves further to the threat of terrorist attacks.
in writing. − british conservative meps are in favour of equality of treatment and access for men and women in all aspects of society, including the performing arts. we have supported this report today on that basis. however, we wish to record that we disagree with the concept of quotas as implied, for example, in paragraph 12 of the report.
in writing. − performing art has flourished for thousands of years and in every society on earth. it is therefore questionable as to why the eu feels the need to impose its will on what is otherwise a sector that flourishes precisely because it is largely free of interference from brussels. i do not think it is my place as an mep to tell those involved in the performing arts how they should regulate their own affairs. in fact, i think it is my job to ensure that performing artists and organisations that facilitate performing arts are as free as possible from well-meaning, but misplaced and naïve, initiatives like this one. i am all in favour of the equal treatment of men and women in the eyes of the law. however, i believe that political pressure should never be allowed to interfere with artistic decisions. we stood firm in this house with regard to the reaction provoked by depictions of the prophet mohammed in danish newspapers. my fear is that by eroding artistic freedoms, even slightly, we are also eroding the values of free speech and expression.
in writing. − this report highlights the persistent inequalities in career prospects and opportunities between women and men in the performing arts sector. i support this report which urges member states to take specific measures to encourage and promote women to further their careers where they are under represented.
in writing. − i support this regulation which will make cars and roads safer by bringing in new technologies. these include tyre pressure monitoring systems, wet-grip requirements and lane-departure warning systems. this report reduces co2 emissions through new standards which tyres must reach, which will improve fuel efficiency and cut fuel bills.
in writing. − the initial provisions of this report would have left national health service hospitals in my region of north-east england and elsewhere in the uk facing massively increased costs for their heating boilers. nhs hospitals need to have a significant amount of spare boiler capacity to cope with emergencies and in case there are technical failures. the directive would have assessed the hospitals’ boilers on the basis of their potential emissions, rather than their actual emissions - thus causing them to incur substantial costs to obtain a permit. i supported the tabling of amendments to exempt part-time stand-by boilers from the scope of the directive. notwithstanding these concerns, we must act in concert to address the common threat of climate change and environmental pollution.
in writing. − this initiative creates a new european legal form intended to enhance the competitiveness of smes by facilitating their establishment and operation in the single market. i support the report which will lead to greater protection for workers and the information they are provided with by their company.
in writing. − this report addresses significant weaknesses in the current regulatory framework. in particular, i have been concerned about the lack of accountability of eu-based companies trading in the uk which are able to advertise in the uk, but do not need to apply for a licence. indeed, the uk vice tax has only encouraged this worrying pattern of companies establishing themselves overseas and thus avoiding the need to apply for a uk licence. i therefore welcome this report, which should go some way to tackling this problem.
in writing. − i support a more open gaming environment in europe. for too long now, national monopolies controlled by governments have prevented new entrants from offering gaming services in europe. online gambling offers a new way for consumers to enjoy their gaming experience. i have no problem with responsible gamblers participating in online gaming activity offered by responsible operators. this report seeks to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to ensure a fair and transparent gaming environment in cyberspace. it is also important in my view to take all reasonable steps to prohibit minors from gaming online. of course, there are concerns about the social effects of gambling and these are concerns that i share. however, i think that in the past far too much responsibility has been put on gaming companies and not enough on individuals. ultimately, the decision on whether or not to gamble is a personal decision and the individual must be responsible for the consequences.
in writing. − i was disappointed to have to abstain on this report, which should have followed up on the commission's green paper in looking at how farmers across europe get the maximum benefit in the marketplace from the high standard of their produce. it does focus on important issues such as country of origin labelling, developing the organic market, where european products are the finest in the world, and exploiting the strengths of farming in europe to give our farmers an advantage when taking their products to market – and this part is welcome. unfortunately, however, the report has been hijacked by the protectionist elements in the committee on agriculture, and particularly by those who seek to justify massive market-distorting cap subsidies and who want to make it harder for produce from third world countries to be imported to the eu.
in writing. − given the state of the economic crisis which grips the european union and which has a global reach, it was important for parliament to find agreement. this report has finally found a route to agree between ourselves in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. obviously, concerns about state intervention are of the highest ranking but, given the nature of the damage caused by under-consumption and a shrinking manufacturing base, some relief at the level of government expenditure is necessary.
in writing. − this act proposes various measures, some of which might be of assistance to small businesses, but whose overall effect is to promote eu control, churning of the population, feminist agendas and infiltration of businesses by eu officials ‘on work experience’. these elements make it impossible for ukip to support this proposal.
in writing. − this report proposes various measures, some of which might be of assistance to small businesses, but whose overall effect is to promote eu-control, churning of the population, feminist agendas and infiltration of businesses by eu-officials ‘on work-experience’. these elements make it impossible for the ukip to support this proposal.
in writing. − i welcome this report and was pleased to vote for its main text with little exception. i cannot agree with a common consolidated corporate tax base as there is no agreement for this. similarly, on the issue of penalties for exceeding limits on late payments, i prefer the late payments directive so as to avoid confusion. given that small- to medium-sized businesses are the strongest element of growth in the economy, this proposal helps to strengthen the conditions for such growth. the south-east of england should benefit from such an approach.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, last september i drew attention to how the electronic data of ships required in these reports could easily find their way to pirates operating off somalia. this was not heeded. these reports have been modified, but not for the better. in fact, there is now contradiction between them. i will try again. whilst mr sterckx obliges ports not to turn ships away, mr savary says that they can deny entry if insurance certificates are not being provided. add the further contradiction of mrs vlasto, which extends port control to ships anchored offshore. so if a vessel with no papers lies offshore and then, due to extreme weather, becomes at risk, it must be allowed entry because mr sterckx established the right of ships in distress to a place of refuge. so we come to the situation of a vessel with a dangerous cargo finding its way into a port by manipulating these contradictions. what happens if it then results in a serious incident, closing a major port? would the compensation mentioned in mr sterckx apply to all of that and, in any case, who pays? these reports need a real overhaul. finally, the fernandes report endorses various imo recommendations. fine – the uk has already signed these – but the eu wants to add its own fleet database, to which i and others would object. i say ‘would’ because the fernandes report is to be adopted without a vote. how democratic is that? whatever happened to the comments made here this very morning that this is an amending house?
mr president, we have come a long way as a parliament since the prestige, a tragedy to the coastline of galicia and to its ecosystems. we have come a long way since the erika polluted and destroyed the wonderful coast of brittany. we have come a long way since sea empress, exxon valdez and other shipping disasters. this package is a testament to the work of parliament, the commission and also, if belatedly, the council. for me, the significance of this package will be felt for many years to come. it is a testament also to the work of all our rapporteurs and meps who, over the years, have pushed for such legislation. this package is a victory for this parliament, for members from all the political groups, particularly on the committee on transport, although i hope members would allow me to make special mention at this time of mrs miguélez ramos and the late mr willi piecyk.
mr president, i will speak on the el khadraoui report. i would like to thank the rapporteur and his staff for all their hard work and for finding a compromise when at times it looked impossible. there are a number of points that need to be made in this debate. firstly, this is the start of a process, not the end, and contained within the compromise is the right of member states to introduce congestion charging or not. i also want to remind honourable members, particularly from the ppe-de group, that this chamber has consistently demanded from the commission a proposal and strategy to internalise external costs in all modes of transport – but in particular road transport – and this has indeed been highlighted as our roads become more congested and global warming more severe. there is also a need to see a more balanced road sector that is not only economically sustainable, but also environmentally sustainable, and one that recognises that it has to pay a fair price for the costs it creates – be these environmental or infrastructure costs. we cannot have a ‘do-nothing’ attitude, although i note that this phrase has become synonymous with the conservatives over recent months. i know the formulation of this report has been difficult – some members believe it goes too far, whilst others not far enough. however, as a first stage i think that this compromise deserves support. i look forward in the future to other externalities being included and would stress my group’s support that all revenue from eurovignettes should be earmarked for use in the transport sector so that transparency and public opinion can be brought closer together. this report is a serious attempt to deliver what parliament has called for over many years; it will be an important tool in combating congestion, in improving the environment and in facilitating modal shift, which is why it deserves our full support. and commissioner, i would not worry too much about disagreeing with georg jarzembowski – we in the socialist group have been doing that successfully for years.
mr president, i want to say a word on the need to include co2 emissions in the eurovignette. co2 emissions from heavy goods vehicles amount to almost a quarter of emissions from road transport and, while cars are gradually getting more efficient, hgv fuel efficiency has not improved in the last 15 years. if we do not include co2 in the eurovignette, what other options do we have? precious few, because pigs will fly, as we say, before ecofin ministers agree on eu-level fuel taxation. worse still, if a member state wants to bring in a toll system that reflects the external costs of co2, they will not be allowed to do so unless we now include co2 within the eurovignette. excluding co2 from the eurovignette would be particularly unfair given that all member states now have binding co2 reduction targets to meet under the effort-sharing decision. they need to have a range of tools at their disposal.
mr president, i rise to speak specifically on mr el khadraoui’s report on the eurovignette, the subject of which has been before this house in numerous forms on many previous occasions. my position remains the same in that i do not see the need to pile extra taxation onto an industry which is already badly hit by the economic downturn. in the united kingdom, over gbp 50 billion is already taken from road transport each year and only gbp 10 billion reinvested in transport as a whole. so much for hypothecation. at a time when we are facing the biggest economic crisis in living memory, and businesses, large and small, are going bankrupt each week, why are we at a european level discussing measures which would exacerbate the problem? in this context, may i also say to brian simpson that it is better to do nothing than to do it wrong, as i am sure his party will find to its cost in the next few weeks. on a more general note, i should make members aware that, in the uk, these matters are decisions for local authorities in the context of implementing road pricing. in my own region, the west midlands, all seven of the local city councils of differing political complexions rejected the idea of implementing such a scheme. in brian simpson’s own region, citizens overwhelmingly rejected road-pricing in a local referendum in the greater manchester area. so i would ask this parliament, and the european commission, what part of ‘no’ do you not understand? it should not be for the eu to dictate a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach in this area. it should remain a matter solely for national and local determination.
mr president, i would like to start by congratulating my friend and colleague mr el khadraoui, who, it is fair to say, despite appearances suggesting the contrary, has actually proved himself capable of producing a very sound and workable report. i am happy to add my support to it, and indeed to the underlying principle that the polluter should pay. on this side of the house we attach great importance to air quality, about which we are all very concerned, and we all know that lorries pollute. as mrs lichtenberger put it, ‘there is documented evidence’. now mrs wortmann-kool, who has left, spoke about the obstacles to the internal market and mr jarzembowski, despite his report on the greening of transport, also expressed reservations about the eurovignette. i would say to both of them that the biggest threat to all markets will be if we get overtaken by pollution. i do not believe that an extra 2-3% will be a huge burden, but it will show that we are taking serious steps to counter pollution. mr o’neachtain expressed reservations and concerns about ireland and other peripheral countries. he seems not to understand that this is optional on member states. it will only apply in ireland if his government actually decides it. i think he, and probably mr bradbourn, will have learnt one lesson this afternoon, which is that it is dangerous – and makes you look rather foolish – to speak on a report that you either have not read or that you clearly do not understand. on another point, as an aside, i believe that we should, and could, do much more to encourage freight off the roads onto the waterways, where one barge can carry as much as 15 lorries. i therefore think that we should support the initiative of our erstwhile belgian colleague.
the commissioner must know a little bit about tax havens, because luxembourg rather falls into that category. does she not feel that this undermines the whole principle of a common market, with lorries driving out of their way to get the cheap fuel there? then there is jersey, guernsey, the isle of man – which are in the uk but outside the eu – liechtenstein, monaco, san marino etc. they are all little tax havens, with offshore banking, which we have just heard about, pandering to the rich. they only exist because the eu allows them to do so. these are her words: ‘a resolute policy against tax evasion’. if that were true, would not the commission include some suggestions for abolishing these tax havens?
member of the commission. − in answer to the first question, the commission has proposed two new directives in order to solve these problems because the financial crisis has highlighted the problems more clearly than before. we made a proposal at the end of 2008 and another one at the beginning of 2009, the former reinforcing the information exchange and the latter enshrining the right of a member state to obtain information without the other member state invoking banking secrecy. as for the second question i just want to underline that lorries have nothing to do with tax havens.
member of the commission. − the question which was asked is very important, and i would like to underline that the commission strongly rejects the racism, xenophobia and any type of hate speech the honourable member refers to. the commission also shares the concerns raised, and is aware that certain content available on the internet can have a very negative impact. the commission fights racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism in all media platforms, and not just the internet, as far as possible, under the powers conferred by the treaties. on this basis, the commission has taken a number of initiatives – legislative and non-legislative – which seek to prevent discrimination as well as racist, xenophobic and anti-semitic speeches. firstly, there is the audiovisual media services directive, which extends minimum standards for content to all audiovisual and media services, and that includes on-demand offers on the internet. this includes: ‘prohibition of incitement to hatred based on race, sex, religion or nationality’. furthermore, the commission had adopted policies that aim at reducing racist content online. i would just underline here the recommendation on the protection of minors and human dignity and on the right of reply, which calls for action against discrimination in all media. the recently-adopted council framework decision on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law sets out a common eu approach to racism and xenophobia. the framework decision aims at criminalising international conduct, such as incitement to violence or hate towards a group of people or against a person belonging to a group defined on the basis of race, colour, descent, religion, belief, or national or ethnic origin. incitement to violence or hatred would also be punishable if committed by public dissemination and distribution of tracts, pictures and other materials. the member states have an obligation to comply with those provisions by 28 november 2010. apart from this legal approach, the commission is promoting a set of measures for the safer use of the internet. i think parliament well knows the safer internet plus programme, with a budget of eur 55 million for the period 2009-2013, which co-funds projects with the following objectives: increased public awareness, provision of a network of contact points for reporting illegal and harmful content and conduct, in particular on child sexual abuse material, grooming and cyber-bullying, fostering of self-regulatory initiatives in this field and involving children in creating a safer online environment, establishing a knowledge base of the new trends in the use of online technologies and their consequences for children’s lives. the commission furthermore strives to promote a responsible use of media and the internet. in its communication on media literacy of december 2007, the commission calls on member states to commit to more effectively promoting media literacy and research in this field. this year it will present a recommendation on media literacy. it is also worth noting that our neighbour, the council of europe, has developed a series of international legally binding and non-binding instruments on these issues, which all show that cyberspace is not a lawless area and that member states are bound to protect individual rights and freedoms through their national laws, inter alia the cybercrime convention and its additional protocol 3.
commissioner, i do not doubt for one minute your commitment to this area. i know you have looked into it in great detail. but concerning this issue which you mentioned of the ‘lawless area’ of cybercrime, are you convinced, specifically in connection with inciting hatred – which is a criminal offence in all member states, i think – that the implementation of the framework decision, the audiovisual directive and many of the other instruments that you have mentioned, is actually stopping the proliferation of these sites? the evidence so far is that they are increasing as we speak. do you feel that we should take further action?
commissioner, there is no greater hate crime than murder, and this week in my constituency of northern ireland we had three hate murders of members of the security forces by irish republican terrorists. and yet within hours there were a number of sites, across the internet, glorifying those hideous murders and praising those who had carried them out. so, as well as looking at racism and xenophobia, is the commission focused on how it deals with the abuse of the internet by terrorist parasites?
i am very supportive of serbia making progress towards eu accession, as i am all of the western balkans, as a former member of the relevant european parliament delegation. the problem is that when we say serbia’s accession will depend on full cooperation with the icty, this begs the question of when exactly we will make this criterion bite. i really want to try and get from the commissioner the fact that no further progress will be made now, in the next few weeks, unless these fugitives are delivered. can he also tell me that no further progress can be made regarding croatia’s accession unless the icty is satisfied that there is full cooperation over evidence and witnesses regarding the croatian invitees?
commissioner, what urgency and commitment does the commission have towards ensuring that the dairy market bottoms out? is there not a danger that, by piecemeal incremental measures, it will take even more time to turn the market? and yet time is the one thing we do not have. is it not time to be bold with the export refunds? because, commissioner, our industry is dying on its feet.
the next item is the commission statement on childcare facilities – barcelona objectives.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – commissioner, thank you for your statement. i was very encouraged by your words, but was very discouraged to notice that only 12 colleagues were here to hear it. that has now risen to the dizzy heights of 18 meps, to hear what is an important statement on an important subject. i was curious though that there was no reference – unless i missed it – to the council presidency comments of a month or so ago, because i thought those remarks were also very helpful to the debate and they made the point very clearly that, whilst the barcelona objectives had not yet been reached – in some cases by a very long way – it was very clear that a number of countries did not have any immediate plans to reach them and did not see that as a particular problem. the reason for that is, and i quote from what the czech council presidency said: ‘no one should criticise the decision of those countries that fail to fulfil the barcelona objectives and do not intend to increase efforts for their fulfilment. there are countries whose citizens, based on their historical experience, are not interested in placing their children in day care’. i think that is true. that does not mean, of course, that we should not try as hard as we can to encourage the provision of day care and make quality day care available for those who want to use it. i hope that you will agree, commissioner, that in the context of helping more women into the labour market, and in the context of helping people with the important role of childcare, that there are indeed many roads to paradise – and there is not just the one road that we should exclusively concentrate upon. let us please explore all routes, but let us keep paradise in mind so that the objectives we all share can indeed be fulfilled.
madam president, it is deeply disappointing that so many countries are not meeting the barcelona targets – and perhaps if this debate had been at 9 a.m. rather than 9 p.m. we might have seen more colleagues in this chamber. many have spoken about the economic crisis. this is not a time to dismiss childcare but to increase quality, affordable childcare for all. we need, like never before, to invest in our children. an investment in quality childcare will help families and children alike in providing families – mostly mothers – with an opportunity to work, by giving children the chance to a high-quality, nurturing environment akin to the home. this weekend i heard a talk from a leading scottish psychiatrist and also someone from barnardo’s. their views concerned vulnerable children and it was shocking to find out that, if there is no intervention to help vulnerable children, a vulnerable child could be damaged irrevocably by the age of three. childcare helps families and society as a whole, and it can help the most vulnerable children too. i urge the commissioner to keep the pressure on.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the children of immigrants, by jan andersson, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-0023/2009 – b6-0014/2009).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his willingness to embark upon studies and to expand the information on the eures network, to provide greater information for individuals about family rights and the right of family reunion. colleagues have raised the issues of why people feel the need to move to look for work. certainly the need to increase progress on combating poverty within the european union is an extremely important issue. we look forward to rapid progress on that, including the question of minimum income, so that people can live in dignity. but we should also be aware that many of the parents who are moving are doing this in what they believe is in the best interests of their children, to provide greater opportunities for them. indeed they often sacrifice their own careers, their own chosen path, as it were, in order to try and do this. while we are trying to sort out the children’s problems, we need to beware of demonising parents who are moving.
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 108(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 12 march 2009.
the next item is the commission statement on the risk to close down the company qimonda in germany and portugal and the loss of thousands of jobs in europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, over recent months our union has had more summits than our former colleague reinhold messner, and our parliament has had a string of reports on improving the economy. but what those summits and those reports have done is provide member states with stepping stones across the river of recession. now we need the council to cross without fear or flight, and i congratulate the authors of the andersson, ferreira and kirilov reports. they offer a consistent and pragmatic perspective written in the light of the unemployment avalanche on our horizon. and their underlying message is this: jobs, jobs, jobs. the lisbon strategy, employment guidelines, cohesion policy – these have always argued for flexicurity in our economies, for public investment in research and development, for the rapid transition to the knowledge economy. they are the foundations on which a healthy, dynamic and secure job market is built. and from today’s vantage point, one thing is clear to everyone – except, perhaps, some on the benches to the left. it was not the lisbon strategy that brought hardship to our kitchen tables, rather it is the member states which ignored it that are suffering the deepest and will suffer the longest. so now is the time to put our foot on the floor and drive forward a ‘lisbon plus programme’ and employment guidelines that reflect the realities of our union. national parliaments, regional governments, city halls: each must be empowered to rise to that challenge, and named and shamed when they do not. nor should we accept heel-dragging over the need to protect the planet. the council will consider the eu’s negotiating stance for the copenhagen climate conference. just how much money, mr vondra, will the 27 allot to adaptation and mitigation in the developing world? climate change will not stop as the economy slows, and the poorest countries will suffer – still – from our carbon consumption. so recession must not mean inaction. member states must commit the cash to counter climate change and to create green-collar jobs in the process, perhaps by using the money we have, as claude turmes suggests, to leverage more through the eib or the eif. but the council knows that the ravages of recession will return without root and branch reform of the financial system. next month’s g20 is tasked with recasting the mould, and i welcome the tone taken by european leaders when they met in berlin. the imf should be financed effectively, tax havens should be subject to scrutiny, and financial institutions should be regulated robustly, with an effective european financial services authority overseeing the system: not to drag our economies back into the past, but to create an open, honest and transparent system of trade that is free and fair. london, paris, berlin: each is keen to stress that europe stands united. but the president of the council tells us that differences persist. i hope the president of the council will be here to report back to us from this summit, because he should be here today. if differences persist, it will not do. we need europe to be strong in mind, fleet of foot and united in purpose over the weeks and months ahead, ready to strip out the toxic assets that are crippling bank balances, ready to reform bank practice to restore creditworthiness, and ready to accept that the current stimulus package may not be enough. because it is no good topping up the imf if there is no global financial system to support, and while it is rough justice that responsible member states must mitigate against default by those who lived it up, that may be the price to pay to avoid the contagion of economic meltdown. put simply, we need council, commission and parliament to work together: coolly, calmly, collectively, preventing procedure from getting the better of purpose. europe can fight fire no longer. the time has come for the fundamental reform that will provide jobs now and security in the future.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the term ‘european solidarity’ has been bandied around this morning as if it were a given. i want to call that into question. we cannot sign a blank cheque to bail out the countries of eastern europe. we do not have the money. economically the plan is quite unsound and, most important of all, it is politically unacceptable to the taxpayers in france, britain and germany that we should do so. yet the british chancellor of the exchequer, alistair darling, seems now to be an advocate of this plan. he has lost his marbles! he says that this is the time for europe to build on shared values of cooperation, as if we are one big, happy family. well, the hungarian prime minister, mr ferenc gyurcsany, rather blows that idea of european solidarity apart. he demands that the european union bail out countries such as his to the tune of eur 180 billion, and he says that, if we do not do that, he promises us that five million unemployed migrants will head west into our countries. that is nothing other than blackmail, and it shows the folly of having allowed countries like hungary into this political union and highlights even more deeply the folly of having open borders. the only response i really hear in this house today is that somehow we have to have more european union – that more power will work! well, look: you were sent a message by the voters in france, by the voters in the netherlands and by the voters in ireland. you do not have the legitimacy to take more power for the european union. the economic crisis will, i believe, be what voters will vote on in the european elections this year, and i hope this time they send you people a message that is so big and so loud that, for once, you simply will not be able to ignore it.
madam president, i want to refer to our strategy and preparations for the copenhagen conference on climate change later this year, where we have taken a leadership role but one which is threatened by the economic recession and demands that we relax our standards. let me give you one example. more than three years ago we agreed that new requirements would be placed on car manufacturers to change the air conditioning refrigerants they use, which currently have a global warming potential 1 400 times greater than carbon dioxide. we said that should take place in all new car models from 2011. but now we hear that some manufacturers – led, i understand, by ford and general motors – are trying to exploit loopholes to get out of that obligation. later this month there is a meeting of the national type approval authorities. it is very important that commissioner verheugen takes a lead and makes it clear that we are not going to relax our standards, and that these refrigerants must be replaced by 2011. if we weaken now, we open the floodgates to lobbying from industry across the board, and our leadership role on climate change will be seriously undermined.
madam president, my contribution today will be one that highlights the need for investment: investment in jobs; investment in our environment; and investment in all our economies. in that regard, investment in our transport infrastructure, and in particular in our railway infrastructure, is crucial not only in providing us with a world-class rail network but also in protecting and creating jobs and social cohesion. let us prioritise the electrification of our rail network, giving us both transport and environmental gains. let us invest in our tens transport network, let us have a recovery plan with substance and with action, and not just words. doing nothing and letting the markets decide has failed. the time for concerted european action is now based on putting people first and vested interests last. we on this side of the house are not prepared to play pontius pilate, washing our hands of the problem. we want to act and we want to act decisively.
i scríbhinn. – táimid ag maireachtáil i ré d’éiginnteacht eacnamaíoch. tá dualgas ar an aontas eorpach a fheiceáil an féidir solúbthacht a cheadú d’údaráis náisiúnta agus réigiúnacha ionas go bhféadfar seilbh níos fearr a ghlacadh ar chistí an ae chun dul i ngleic leis an staid gan fasach. tá na bearta atá i bplean choimisinéir huebner "cohesion policy: investing in the real economy" praiticiúil agus is bearta iad ar chóir d’údaráis sa bhaile glacadh leo gan mhoill. is féidir ciste forbraíochta réigiúnaí na heorpa (cfre) a úsáid anois chun éice-infheistiú tithe lucht ísealioncaim a mhaoiniú i bpáirt, rud is cóir a úsáid chun poist a chruthú agus a choinneáil sa tionscal tógála – atá buailte go trom – agus ag an am céanna cabhrú linn teacht níos cóngaraí dár ngealltanais aeráide a chomhlíonadh. is féidir le híocaíochtaí aitheantais ó chiste sóisialta na heorpa fíorspreagadh a thabhairt do na hearnálacha pobail atá ag streachailt agus ba chóir go mbainfeadh fiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide (fbm) tairbhe as na hathruithe atá molta chun sreabhadh airgid tirim a chur ar fáil níos fusa. is céim chun tosaigh iad sin. is oth liom cuid den teanga i dtuarascáil kirilov maidir le straitéis liospóin.
madam president, on monday evening the committee on foreign affairs adopted a motion regarding the deteriorating humanitarian situation in sri lanka, pursuant to rule 91. the situation in sri lanka is clearly very serious, but exactly what is happening regarding the humanitarian situation is far from clear. i am conscious that there are many differing views across this house. so i suggest that the most sensible course of action would be to timetable a proper debate, which cannot seriously be fitted in in this part-session but could be in our next part-session, which is just 10 days away. i am grateful to mr daul of the ppe-de group for indicating his group’s support for this course of action. as we are a serious chamber, i suggest and ask colleagues to support a debate with resolution and full participation at the next part-session, to do justice to the gravity of the situation in sri lanka.
rapporteur. − madam president, under rule 53, i would like to ask the commission to respond and tell us whether it intends to adopt all of parliament’s amendments as adopted today.
rapporteur. − madam president, i do not know where the commissioner has been, but we adopted a position this morning. i would therefore like to request that the plenary vote to refer the report back to committee, which would give the committee the flexibility to enter into negotiations with both the council and the commission. i therefore ask for the house’s support for a referral back to committee.
rapporteur. − madam president, my thanks to the house for its patience on this, my final intervention. can i now ask you, madam president, to write a formal invitation to the czech presidency, as well as the incoming swedish presidency, to open a formal dialogue with the european parliament as soon as possible? equally, as announced in the voting list and for the sake of clarity and coherence of the text that we have now adopted, i kindly ask that you request the plenary services to proceed, without any substantive change, to do the following: to group the articles according to their content under specific thematic titles, to re-order recitals and definitions accordingly and to produce and publish parliament’s position as a consolidated text as soon as possible. finally, may i pay due thanks to the enormous and supportive work which i have been given not only by the secretariats, but by the tabling services. (applause)
madam president, this is a very simple amendment, just to change ‘the disabled’ to either ‘people with disabilities’ or ‘disabled people’. we never use the words ‘the disabled’ in english.
madam president, this, again, is a fairly standard amendment with reference to the role of these consultations of the social partners. it just adds, at the end, the phrase: ‘in accordance with national custom and practice’. this is normally built into an amendment, but for some reason it got left out. the socialists are supportive of this amendment, and hopefully the other groups will be too; they usually are.
madam president, i welcome the fact that this report looks at what can be done at european level to stimulate the economies, whilst i recognise that most of the instruments to do so remain at national level: 99% of public expenditure is national, not european; most regulation is national, not european. but if we look at what we can do at european level, the plan proposed by the commission for a eur 30 billion contribution, including advance payments from structural funds and new loans from the european investment bank, can and will make a real contribution to coming out of this crisis. we must also make sure that we avoid protectionism in europe. a beggar-your-neighbour approach by different countries would weaken our common market and seriously damage the prospects of job creation and economic growth in the long term. on the contrary, freedom of movement for workers and initiatives to help businesses’ exports to the single market will help provide the stimulus needed for our economic recovery.
madam president, a recent report by the uk-based ngo the taxpayers’ alliance said that eu membership costs every man, woman and child in the united kingdom gbp 2 000 each every year. i have to say that many of my constituents in the north east of england think they get very bad value for such a large sum of money. therefore, ensuring public access to the documents of the european institutions is the very least that those constituents could expect in return for handing over such large sums to the eu every year. in the eyes of many people the eu remains a very obscure and monolithic entity. anything that we can do to improve access, to give more information to the public on some of the things that perhaps some of our commissioners and others would rather keep confidential, is very welcome. already we see whistleblowers and others that have been vilified and hounded out of their jobs for exposing confidential information. if all that information had been available in the first place, then perhaps many of those over-the-top reactions would have been unnecessary.
madam president, i am grateful for this opportunity to explain how i voted on this very important report. we all know that, when different parties are involved in sensitive political negotiations, sometimes there is a need for secrecy in order to avoid a deal being scuppered. however, this is not really what we are talking about in this case. recently there have been negotiations on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement and some of the issues that have been debated include a massive erosion of individual civil liberties. there have been proposals, for example, to search people’s ipods and laptops when entering countries to check for copyright and non-copyright material. were we able to debate these in an open and transparent manner? no, because these documents have been kept secret – perhaps for justifiable reasons, but reasons that we do not really understand. therefore, what we really need is more openness and more transparency in order for us to really get to the heart of the issue. i completely agree with my colleague, mr callanan, when he says that the fact that they were not transparent does not bode well for the eu.
madam president, this report starts from a false assumption: the assumption that the eu knows best when it comes to employment policy. many of my constituents would profoundly disagree; they would rather that the eu were kept well away from anything to do with employment policy. i believe that my country should withdraw from the eu’s social chapter. it is more than a little ironic that the eu seeks to pass on its wisdom on employment policy to the member states whilst at the same time it is responsible for huge amounts of red tape and regulation that have constricted so many businesses in my region and across europe and caused an awful lot of the unemployment that it now seeks to cure. the european social model is outdated, it is destructive, it prevents job creation and it acts against entrepreneurship. the best thing would be for the eu to keep its nose out of the member states’ employment policy and produce less red tape and less regulation. that is the best thing that we could do to create more jobs in the economy.
madam president, i voted for this proposal because it postpones the folly of an utterly unnecessary waste of even more money on translation services in this house in respect of irish. i would have preferred the entire folly of that waste to have been overturned. however, at least this saves our taxpayers some of the unnecessary waste. the minimal use of irish in this chamber is self-evident, although miss de brún, as part of her aggressive republican agenda, may regale us in that dead tongue, with the only relief being that hardly anyone who tunes into parliament on line can understand a word she says. i can assure them they are missing very little. her sinn féin colleague, miss mcdonald, has not got past uttering a little stammering, stuttering, pidgin irish, but even then we are wasting money on translation.
madam president, i was the shadow rapporteur on the sacconi report into co2 emissions from passenger vehicles, and i can see from the work that i did on that that we do need to reduce our dependence on oil. we need to reduce that dependence because most oil supplies are, of course, in very unstable and unsavoury parts of the world. for far too long, our thirst for oil has sustained regimes that are deeply inimical to everything that we stand for, to our own interests and to our own values, especially with regard to human rights and good governance. particularly, of course, we need to reduce our dependence on russian oil supplies. russia has shown in the past that it will not hesitate to use its control of much of our energy supply to achieve political and economic goals, and we need to do all we can to reduce their ability to do so, and to do that we of course need to reduce our dependence on oil.
madam president, i abstained on this report because i believe it simply does not go far enough. we have previously made commitments in this house to the reduction of emissions. transport has a key role to play in the fight against climate change and should be assisted in meeting its responsibility, but this report will do little to help. this is unfortunate because there are some good proposals. the noise charges for trains take into account the broader environmental impact of transport and fit well with the proposals currently going through the committee on industry, research and energy on reducing noise in car tyres. but much more could have been done for the aviation sector. it is odd that the report mentions rail, sea and inland waterway transport yet neglects this sector, one of the principal contributors of carbon emissions. it is because it lacks teeth in this area and so many others that i abstained on this report.
madam president, i cannot remember how i voted on the lisbon strategy. i think it is a completely worthless thing, because europe was meant to be the leading knowledge-based society by 2010. over the 10 years i have sat in this chamber, i did wonder how we were going to get there when we were passing regulation after regulation that was stifling business and opportunity and, indeed, encouraging business to move away from the continent of europe. i am always reticent when it comes to these sorts of reports. having sat in the chamber for a couple of hours today voting about imposing more and more regulation on businesses and on people, i feel we are going in exactly the wrong direction from this chamber and we need a huge about-face immediately.
madam president, i agree with many of the comments made by my colleague, mr heaton-harris. as he correctly said, the lisbon strategy commits the eu to becoming, slightly ironically, the most competitive economy in the world by 2010. with just one year to go before that self-imposed deadline, i cannot be the only person in this house who wonders, and becomes more than a little sceptical, about whether we will ever get there. we constantly pass resolutions and the commission constantly produces strategy documents telling us how we are going to get there. it is just that we never seem to arrive. the content of the lisbon strategy was always far in excess of the eu’s capacity to deliver it, and was in many ways contrary to the whole ethos of the eu over the past 50 years because, as mr heaton-harris reminded us, much of the eu’s employment and economic regulation actually causes more difficulty in achieving the goals of the lisbon strategy than anything else. we are constantly piling on more and more burdens and regulations that force industry out of europe, and we have no chance whatsoever of meeting any of the goals of the lisbon strategy. it is about time we were honest with ourselves and admitted that.
madam president, the initial goals of the lisbon strategy committed the eu to creating a knowledge economy, an innovative economy, a digital economy by the year 2010. well, i have news for us all here in this packed chamber: we are running out of time. you may not have noticed, but we have made very little progress so far. before i became a politician i used to work with a lot of innovators and help lots of start-up companies. it was a real contrast, coming to the world of european politics, to see how we dealt with innovation. when we deal with innovation here, we have committees, we have strategy documents, we have votes, we have everything but innovation, unless you consider more paper creation to be innovation. when you talk to the innovators out there, the people who are going to create wealth in the european union and across the globe, what they want is for governments to keep out of the way. it is time the looters of government stopped draining the life-blood of companies.
madam president, it is with heavy heart that i stand up to speak once again on lisbon. i do not normally speak here just for the sake of being negative. i believe that the european union talks the talk when it comes to the lisbon strategy. however, today, almost 10 years since the summit, it is a long way from walking the walk. we hear many warm words about the need for the skilled workforce that will be able to adapt to economic upheavals, such as the one we face today. however, across europe we still face a chronic skills crisis. in my region, the west midlands, the skilling of the workforce has had a particularly painful and protracted birth. regrettably, we have the highest proportion of skill-shortage vacancies of any british region. i would, therefore, call on the commission not to lose sight of the structural reforms needed to reinvigorate the lisbon strategy during a period which is beset with economic disorder, higher oil and commodity prices and ongoing turbulence on the financial markets.
madam president, the reason i want to give an explanation of vote on this particular report is because i cannot believe the hypocrisy of this house in talking as it always does about climate change. why is this house hypocritical? well, look around you. we are in our second chamber. we have a perfectly good chamber back in brussels. we are here for only three or four days per month. i admit that we are going to get an extra part-session this particular month, but only to average out for the one in 12 sessions that we need to do. we have hundreds of people displaced from their normal places of work to come here. they travel and cause carbon emission while they are getting here. we are possibly the least green parliament that there is. when i entered this place it was meant to be a paperless parliament yet, if you look around, all our desks are covered in paper. we are the worst hypocrites when it comes to this than any chamber i know.
madam president, i entirely agree with the sentiments expressed by the previous speaker. we should consider the fact that the european parliament has two chambers – in strasbourg and brussels – and we also have three sites, including the one in luxembourg, which people do not talk about very often. not only are we building a new block in luxembourg, leading to more carbon emissions that could well contribute to climate change – or not, depending on what one believes on the issue – but also it is simply hypocritical for us to carry on debating climate change while we continue to operate out of three places of work. even if we were eventually to operate only out of one – brussels – when you walk around the streets of brussels at night and look up from place du luxembourg towards the european parliament building you see this great lit-up beacon to hypocrisy. if we are going to tackle climate change, it is about time we put our own house in order.
madam president, once again we are talking about something that we are doing very little about, and that is employment policy. once a colleague said to me that when the european parliament talks about employment, it is actually creating far more unemployment than one would expect. we have got to recognise that, if we are going to create jobs, we have to set the wealth creators free. we have to enable them to continue their spirit of free enterprise, to create wealth, to create jobs. but what do we do here? by regulation and debate, what we seek to do is to choke off the very spirit of innovation, the very spirit of entrepreneurship, and we have continued to do that today. only today mr schulz – who is a man i often disagree with, but not today – talked about the social-democratisation of the epp. now that that day has come, we know that we are doomed when it comes to creating jobs in europe.
madam president, have you noticed that the harmonisation of policy always happens in the same direction? more integration invariably means more intervention. or let us put that the other way around: pluralism guarantees competitiveness. if you have competing states with different tax levels, then you can only raise your tax to a certain level before your money starts going abroad. if you have competing states with different employment policies and different social policies, you can regulate your employment market only to a certain degree before the jobs start crossing your borders. now, during the good years the european union was able to disregard these verities and was able to construct behind its walls a highly regulated and centralised market. but those good years have come to an end. we now risk cutting ourselves off from more dynamic economies and becoming more penurious and more irrelevant and ultimately, like tolkien’s eldar, going into the west and fading.
madam president, i notice that at least some of those who have been denigrating all european legislation, whatever it is, nonetheless voted in favour of the third maritime package, a package that i welcome because it increases the health and safety of people on ships; it will ultimately cut costs because it will save lives downstream and it makes safety systems of different member states compatible with each other, thus making them more efficient, more effective, less costly, while at the same time improving health and safety. i welcome the adoption of this package, which will make a difference to the safety of hundreds of constituents of mine in yorkshire and humber.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report as i was pleasantly surprised that our proposals against tax havens were adopted by the house. i was also in support of the wide-ranging remit given in this report to address the current crisis. the one aspect that i really want to focus on is the recovery plan so far. we need to make certain that we still have secure jobs and sustainable careers for people when the economy begins to perform better and support key sectors such as the car industry. the automotive sector is a model of how traditional industries should adapt in the years to come. i recently visited the jaguar land rover plant in my constituency, where i saw how the company has turned itself into a world leader in green automobile technology, and where the new type-approval guidelines we have been adopting in this house have been welcomed wholeheartedly.
madam president, once again we are indulging the fantasy that you can spend your way out of debt and legislate against recessions. at best, we are engaging in self-deceit; at worst, we are deliberately perpetrating a deceit against our electorate. the truth is that nothing can stop this correction: interest rates were held too low for too long and now that the air has been pumped into the balloon, it is going to come out again. we could try to rescue some of the victims but, instead, we engage in this pretence that we can stop the thing happening. the debt will be paid by our children yet unborn and unbegot, and nowhere more than in my country, where every child is now born with a debt of gbp 30 000 because of the incompetence and incontinence of its government. as our national poet says: ‘this land of such dear souls, this dear dear land, ... is now leased out – i die pronouncing it – like to a tenement or pelting farm.’ and now, on top of that national debt, we are expected to contribute to these european recovery programmes. i close again with the words of our national poet: ‘prevent it, resist it, let it not be so, lest child, child’s children, cry against you, “woe!”’
madam president, it is very nice to speak after mr corbett in such debates because mr corbett is never wrong in this place; often confused, as he was today, giving the wrong explanation of vote at the wrong time, but obviously never wrong! i do wonder, though, whether in this house we know what the real economy is. is the real economy a bunch of paper-pushers and bureaucrats, with us writing laws that other people have to implement, such as the civil service in the uk, where we have been growing the public sector way faster than the private sector has been growing over the last 10 years? or is the real economy actually people doing jobs of work and innovating and starting their own businesses? i just wonder if this report is actually heading in the right direction. having read it, i am pretty sure that it is not.
madam president, we in this house know, perhaps better than some outside, the extent to which the european union has now become a mechanism for the massive redistribution of wealth. for a long time, that system worked very well because there were only a very small number of people paying into the pot. the only two net contributors to the budget for most of the european union’s history were the united kingdom and, outstandingly, germany. however, things have changed now, and the money is running out. we saw that vividly illustrated at the summit two weeks ago when the hungarian prime minister demanded a eur 190 billion bail-out for central and eastern europe, and was told in no uncertain terms by the german chancellor that the money was not there and would not be forthcoming. german taxpayers (and this is rarely acknowledged) have always propped up the whole system. integration rests on their sufferance, and they have now seen through this. they are not responding any more to the unspoken appeal to historical responsibility. they are a sensible, level-headed people and can recognise a self-serving argument and spot a racket when they see one. if you think i am wrong about this, then let them have a referendum; let everyone have a referendum: put the treaty of lisbon to a vote. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
in writing. − this legislation will reinforce existing eu safety legislation and transpose major international instruments into community law. i support this legislation because it recognises the need to closely supervise classification societies, which perform vital tasks in maintaining safety at sea, because of the major concentration of power they hold.
in writing. − i support this report which should encourage the shift of freight from the road onto rail. the report is part of a package of initiatives aimed at making transport more sustainable, and ensuring that users will only have to pay the transport costs directly related to their use of that particular mode of transport. tolls will be charged for local noise pollution, local air pollution as well as infrastructure damage/costs. this will create a fairer system of the “polluter pays” principle, with safeguards built in to ensure market transparency and avoid discrimination.
in writing. − i very much regret that into procedures intended to develop the principle that the public has a right to see eu documents the parliament has inserted emphasis that such rules shall not apply to meps. it is argued that this just restates rules already enshrined in the members' statute, but to many people this will just look like another case of 'one rule for them and another for us', and i am glad that the liberal democrat group did not support the amendments tabled by mr nassauer. it is particularly important that details of all payments of expenses made to meps by the parliament be made publicly available. our own auditors have revealed that some of the parliament's members are very definitely not 'honourable', in fact some of them are cheats and rogues. the principle of full transparency is one that needs to be established at the earliest possible date if europe's citizens are to have confidence in this institution.
in writing. − roma people represent the biggest minority in the european union and their integration into european society is one of the biggest challenges the eu will face in the coming decade. the roma, comprising approximately 10-12 million people, have no chance of escaping from poverty and exclusion. such a degree of social disadvantage hampers the attainment of a basic level of human dignity and equal opportunities for the roma. i welcome this report which highlights the need to improve conditions for all europeans, regardless of race.
in writing. − i support measures towards a greening of transport. this will help us in our fight against climate change. however, specific measures need to be strengthened and i had to abstain.
in writing. − i voted for this report despite my disappointment at amendment 10 by the greens calling for the introduction of an eu-wide financial transaction tax. as president of the globalisation intergroup in this parliament, i strongly support the introduction of a tobin-type tax to both control financial speculation and raise billions of euros to help alleviate deep poverty in the world amongst the billion plus living on less than a euro a day. who can be against such a simple and effective measure?
in writing. − the eplp believes that the lisbon strategy remains an important platform for growth and job creation across the eu. this is still an objective which is achievable, even if the current economic climate damages the true potential. however, the eplp does not agree that an eu-wide transaction tax is a necessary vehicle to achieve some of the lisbon strategy objectives and did not support this measure. the eplp could support the main thrust of the approved text and therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − according to the allianz group report which was published on monday, the recession is slowing the eu this year in reaching its goal of becoming the world’s leading knowledge-based economic area. in order for us to reach the lisbon targets we must do all we can, even in these tough times, to meet these goals. by meeting these goals we will be able to see our way through the recession, making the eu stronger placed in the future. we must also keep to the barcelona targets on childcare.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. despite the depth and breadth of the current financial crisis, a product of deregulation, cowardly regulators and greedy bankers, we cannot take our eyes off the need to continue to act to halt climate change. we need to see the current crisis as an opportunity to spend resources to achieve a step change in our lifestyles and promote a green new deal across the continent and the world. we cannot achieve our goals unless we work in partnership with the us and japan, china and india.
in writing. − we must use the green economy to create jobs throughout the eu. this must be a priority during the financial crisis.
in writing. − i can only congratulate my colleague elisa ferreira on her report on the european economic recovery plan. i would endorse the sentiments of poul rasmussen that we have not yet done enough. the bail out of the banks was a necessary but not sufficient step. we must also take steps to deal with the problems of the labour market. work-sharing must be encouraged and when short time is demanded we should encourage maintaining hours at the workplace by utilising the time for training to improve skills. the real crisis is not in the subprime mortgage market but rather in the ten times larger casino economy of the increasingly esoteric and fantasy world of the derivatives market, which needs to be brought under control. i therefore welcome moves to control tax havens and to introduce an eu-wide financial transaction tax to overcome the worst consequences of the crisis, mitigate speculation and raise finance to help us stay on track to achieve the millennium development goals.
in writing. − the economic situation in europe and further afield is as grave as any of us can remember, and it is absolutely right that the european union and the member states do everything that they can to ensure that a recession does not turn into a slump and that where government action really can kick-start economic activity it should be allowed to do so. this report is not perfect and we cannot agree with everything in it, but it reiterates the key points that the downturn is not an excuse for protectionism, excessive debt or the removal of competition rules. we have resisted efforts from the left, whose amendments have aimed to turn a reasonable report into an unaffordable shopping list or an attack on capitalism and the financial system in general. it is now important for all of us to roll up our sleeves and get our economies working again. this report recognises that the free market and the individuals and businesses of europe are vital to the reconstruction process, and it is on that basis that the british conservatives support it.
in writing. − this report accompanies the recovery plan of the european commission, which attempts to reinvigorate the eu economy. the eplp can support the main thrust of the rapporteur’s ideas and believes that many of the issues outlined are critical for a real recovery. the commission response during the economic crisis has been muted and parliament believes that more effective tools are required to produce recovery. in fact, an environmental approach could lead to greater innovation and spark renewed productivity whilst also having a positive effect on our environment. however, care has to be taken not to injure specific industrial sectors or reduce our overall economic possibilities, and therefore consideration of a targeted approach is very necessary. similarly, a new approach to financial supervision denoted by the de larosière wise men’s report is also vital to ensuring against systemic risks.
in writing. − the financial crisis is the first test of globalisation. a crisis fuelled by greed and now consumed by fear should make us question our fundamental values and what kind of society we would like to live within. this is not a time for narrow nationalism, but a time where a strong europe has never been so important. the need for a coordinated approach, not just across the eu, but across the world, makes the g20 in london so important.
in writing. − i support this report which recommends faster, more flexible payments for structural funding. this report will ensure wide use of structural funds to secure jobs, and to create more jobs. i welcome this report which calls for funding to be provided to projects earlier and reduce the need for bank loans.
mr president, thank you for clarifying that. greece joined the european union in 1981 and membership has brought many benefits to that country, of which i am extremely fond. but almost 30 years later macedonia naturally wants to join the european union and share those same benefits. it is therefore only right that greece, as a neighbouring balkan state, expresses its firm solidarity and works to help a small country like macedonia to achieve its aspirations. but because of its own province named macedonia, greece objects to the use of the name ‘republic of macedonia’ on its own, insisting instead on ‘former yugoslav republic of macedonia’, or fyrom. for the sake of consistency, why does greece not therefore also insist on calling estonia the ‘former soviet republic of estonia’ as a formal title? i therefore regret that greece is now considering applying its veto to macedonia’s membership over this issue. i fear that greece risks bringing itself into ridicule and i urge the government in athens to soften its line. i am known in this house and in my constituency as a strong philhellene and a friend of greek and cypriot meps alike, but i am also a member of the newly formed ep friends of macedonia. let us resolve this outstanding issue promptly and sensibly. also i call on the parliament to send a delegation of meps to observe macedonia’s forthcoming presidential election and help legitimise the outcome. as regards croatia’s imminent eu accession, it is regrettable that border disputes with slovenia remain outstanding. as in the case of greece and macedonia, these difficulties must be solved bilaterally rather than being dragged into the eu accession process. slovenia joined the european union while it still had outstanding issues with italy, which did not stand in its way and try and block its accession, so i see no reason why croatia should be held back in turn. in a similar vein and in future, i would never countenance croatia vetoing serbia’s admission because of territorial disputes. of more immediate concern to my electors who are suffering from enlargement fatigue is the scale of organised crime and corruption in croatia, which the government must truly make it a national priority to eradicate.
madam president, if turkey joins the european union it will be the poorest and most economically backward member state, with a population of over 72 million people. hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of people will migrate to countries like britain. the european union will border countries such as syria, iraq and iran, with enormous potential for future conflict and confrontation. however, the people who should really be worried about turkish entry are greek cypriots: if turkey joins the eu, the turks will have the right to go anywhere in the eu. thousands of turks will be able to legally go to southern cyprus and effectively occupy it, quite legitimately, if they so wish. in the european elections on 4 june, voters of greek origin in london should remember that the conservative, labour, liberal democrat and green parties all enthusiastically support turkish entry. the only british party in the european parliament that opposes turkish entry is the uk independence party.
madam president, i have never supported the admission of non-european turkey into the eu, but the current economic downturn makes me more convinced than ever of that view. as a huge net contributor, the united kingdom carries a disproportionate burden in funding the eu so, when it comes to the massive additional cost of enlargement to include turkey, we would be burdened beyond what we could bear. with a reduced tax base, falling income and increased welfare outlay, and a crippling debt legacy in the future decades arising from the mismanagement of the labour government, we cannot go on taking out our diminishing cheque book to pay for turkish enlargement. call that narrow, mercenary national interest if you will, but to me it is inescapable common and fiscal sense.
in writing. – i am encouraged that the foreign affairs committee and the commission are confident that negotiations for croatia’s accession to the eu can be concluded this year. croatia has made good progress in adopting the community acquis, the anti-corruption body uskok has intensified its work and legislation has been introduced to reform the croatian judiciary. however, this is tempered by the knowledge that cases remain where the icty has been unable to access certain documents relating to alleged war crimes, and further attention must be given to minority rights such as the status of the krajina serbs and refugee return. enlargement is one of the great successes of the modern european union. having integrated many european nations ravaged by the cold war, we must now do the same for the western balkans. croatian accession is the first crucial step.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, since its establishment in 1993, the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) has fundamentally reshaped the role of international humanitarian law and has provided the victims of the tragic balkan conflicts, who would otherwise have gone unheard, with an opportunity to voice the horrors that they and their families experienced and to seek justice. the icty has shown that no one, whatever their position or status at the time of the conflict, is immune from justice – a precedent that now sees the international criminal court promote respect for human rights across our world. today we reiterate that, for the former yugoslavia, there can be no impunity for those indictees who are still being sought. ratko mladić and goran hadžić are still renegades from justice and must be handed in. we should also give our full support to chief prosecutor brammertz’s call for the necessary documentation, vital to the case against the former general ante gotovina and others, to be made available to the tribunal – an issue that our croatian friends amongst others know is pertinent to the eu accession process. the socialist group has proposed two amendments to plenary. firstly, that it should be made clear that any proposals for a possible mandate extension should not divert attention from the key task of completing trials and moving towards the earliest possible closure. secondly, we appeal for free access to the icty’s archives by prosecutors, defence counsel and, eventually, historians and researchers. i thank the rapporteur, and i commend these amendments to the house.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we need to support, to its conclusion, the impressive work of the hague tribunal in bringing perpetrators of terrible crimes to justice and not impose an artificial cut-off, because time pressures would prejudice fair trials while shortcuts would harm the safety of witnesses. while many lower-level cases have been successfully transferred to national courts, some of them may be unable or unwilling to conduct criminal proceedings in accordance with international standards, which means that transfers are sometimes being resisted by victims and witnesses. in order to permit the continuation of the icty’s mandate, we urge the council to encourage the security council to provide sufficient resources from its general budget, not least to be able to retain key specialists and highly qualified staff. the tribunal must leave a sound legacy, both as a model for other potential ad hoc tribunals and in order to contribute to the strengthening of justice in the balkan countries. there is a need for increased eu support for domestic war crimes investigations and trials and for the copenhagen criteria to include even more support for a well-trained and high-performing judiciary, but the legacy of that the tribunal must also contribute to reconciliation and inter-ethnic understanding, and the work of ngos deserves more resources. commissioner rehn reminds us that full cooperation with the icty is a condition of eu accession but the truth is, as commissioner orban candidly told me last night in the absence of commissioner rehn, that there is no unanimity in the council as to what that means. that has led to confusion and a consistent postponement of deadlines. much as we all want serbia and croatia to join, the council, commission and parliament must be united and firm in saying that indictees like mladić and hadžić must be delivered and, in the case of croatia, evidence and witnesses facilitated. we cannot afford to relax these conditions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 12 march 2009. written statements (rule 142)
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i thank members for their comments regarding the presidency’s efforts to improve living conditions for the elderly. the problem of ageing is one which we all share; and we should approach this with some dignity. it is, of course, true that many of those challenges remain in the national competencies of the member states but, at the start of the debate, i mentioned the two conferences. i think member states could provide training and counselling opportunities to family carers. the development of high-quality education is a key factor for improving the quality of care, as are temporary replacement care and special leave for employees who look after family members. here flexible working time, part-time jobs and other care-friendly employment arrangements are important. finally, social protection for family carers is also important. the care provided by both informal and professional carers must be appreciated and organised by society. economic security, therefore, is a prerequisite for ensuring the quality of care.
question no 2 by brian crowley (h-0044/09) subject: unemployment in europe what initiatives is the european council pursuing at present to combat youth and long-term unemployment in europe?
president-in-office of the council. − i should like to thank brian crowley for raising the question. i think you are certainly aware that the member states are, in the first instance, responsible for designing and implementing their employment policies. however, the council has a number of responsibilities in the field of employment, including the annual adoption of the employment guidelines in accordance with article 128 of the treaty. especially now that europe is facing a financial and economic crisis, the council is paying special attention to the employment policies of the member states. you specifically asked in your question about the current initiatives by the european council to help combat youth and long-term unemployment in europe. in december 2008, the european council agreed on a european economic recovery plan to provide a coherent framework for action to be taken at the level of the union, as well as for measures adopted by each member state, taking account of their individual circumstances. the european council’s conclusion stressed, in particular, rapid additional action by the european social fund to support employment, especially for the benefit of the most vulnerable groups in the population. the european council undertook to evaluate the implementation of the plan at its upcoming march spring council, indicating that additions or amendments to it could be made if necessary. during the first half of 2009, the czech presidency is paying particular attention to employment measures also, within the context of the spring european council. the spring european council will consider the employment situation in the community and adopt conclusions thereon on the basis of the joint employment report adopted by the council and the commission. the opinion of the european parliament on the matter will be welcomed in view of the european council in march. based on the assessment of the european council, the council will adopt the guidelines on the member states’ employment policies. the present employment guidelines adopted last year, as well as previous versions, have consistently stressed the importance of tackling youth and long-term unemployment in the member states. since the autumn of 2008, when the effects of the present crisis on employment started to be evident, the employment committee, which was established by the council in accordance with article 130 of the treaty, has undertaken the new task of continuous monitoring of the member states’ employment situation. the committee’s findings are being passed on to the council. moreover, the presidency has decided to organise the employment summit so as to maintain a platform for the debate and eventual decisions, and that will be held on 7 may. topics for discussion will be confirmed after the spring european council – so we are planning to have the orientation debate on this next week. it should also be mentioned in this context that during this year the european parliament and the council, as the co-legislators, are evaluating and considering amendments to the european globalisation fund, an instrument aimed at the elimination of negative globalisation impacts, where job losses certainly belong, as well as decreasing the risk that redundant employees will become long-term unemployed. the aim is to avoid long-term unemployment by timely assistance to the employees affected through activation programmes, such as training, which would enable improved qualifications. on the whole, promoting employment, including fighting long-term unemployment and youth unemployment, has always featured high on the agendas of the council and of the european council. the presidency supports the implementation of the flexicurity principles. their implementation to national policies, together with continuing structural reform, will help improve the situation of vulnerable groups in the labour market, which include the young, the elderly, the long-term unemployed and people with low qualifications. the honourable member can be assured here that during spring 2009, amidst the global financial and economic crisis and rising unemployment, this continues to be the case.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i think there are two separate points, one from mr crowley and one from mr mitchell. i think we need to avoid the various protectionist temptations here which could even lead to growing unemployment in various member states. the national solution should not be to the detriment of the neighbours and the price for it should not be paid by future generations. we need to have measures and to react to the current situation, and we are trying to do this. i agree with mr mitchell that we need a plan, yes, and we have some plans. we have the european economic recovery plan and we need to implement it. of course we are in discussion with and working with the european investment bank. its president maystadt held a conference two days ago at which he demonstrated how much the eib had spent since the crisis started – about eur 10 billion more than in the previous year. there is another initiative by the eib, together with the ebrd and the world bank, to allocate resources amounting to more than eur 24 billion to cover the needs of the various smes, for example. that is important in maintaining employment. regarding the revision of the regulations on the european social fund and the european globalisation fund, an agreement on the proposal for a revision of the regulation on the european social fund, simplifying the recording of the expenditure and increasing payments on account to the member states, has been reached in the council. currently the parliament’s position is awaited and the revised regulation could enter into force in may 2009.
question no 3 by mairead mcguinness (h-0046/09) subject: disparity in global production standards europe imposes high standards, which we all applaud, on food production and manufacturing inside its borders but does not require these standards to be met by imports. european standards, particularly for food production and the manufacture of clothes and toys, are the best in the world; but these high standards add costs and make production inside eu borders more expensive. imported products, which are not subject to the same high environmental and other standards, are placed on our shelves, often at much cheaper prices. what is the council doing at the wto and other global fora to raise awareness and encourage higher production standards around the world, giving better protection for workers and consumers?
president-in-office of the council. − i appreciate another question again from the irish meps – it looks like the irish are most active during question time here. so, concerning the initiative at the wto to raise awareness and encourage higher production standards around the world, let me first of all remind the honourable member that the commission is the main trade negotiator of the european community at the wto, acting on the basis of the mandate given by the council. therefore, we would need commissioner ashton here. regarding production standards, article 20 of the gatt allows governments to act regarding trade in order to protect human, animal or plant life or health, provided they do not discriminate or use this as disguised protectionism. in addition, there are two specific wto arrangements dealing with these issues: the sanitary and phyto-sanitary (sps) measures and technical barriers to trade (tbt) agreements. the sps is a separate agreement containing basic rules on food safety and animal and plant health standards. it allows countries to set their own standards, provided that these are based on science. the tbt agreements oblige the wto members to ensure that technical regulations, voluntary standards and conformity assessment procedures do not create unnecessary obstacles to trade. members of the wto are therefore encouraged to use international standards, guidelines and recommendations where these exist. they may take measures which result in higher standards only if there is a scientific justification for doing so. the european community imposes high-level standards through which we protect our consumers. however, we must ensure that the required standards are not in conflict with the agreements mentioned above. we all know that there are different viewpoints on these issues and that the european community has been many times on the defensive side of a dispute over such measures. in the community’s view, good regulatory practice can, among other things, help to avoid unnecessary obstacles to international trade and make sure that legislation is not more trade-restrictive than necessary. at the same time, it can defend the right to set public policy objectives, for instance in relation to human, animal and plant life and environments at levels it considers appropriate, provided these are not applied in a manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination. in the current context of the financial turmoil and economic meltdown, the importance of full compliance and effective implementation of all wto rules and agreements cannot be over-emphasised. the european community has been working towards strengthening the international standards within the relevant wto committees, in particular the tbt, sps, trips, trade and environmental committees. a recent case which may be mentioned is the hard stance of the european community in the sps committee at the end of february on the issue of some members’ non-compliance with the standard of the world organisation for animal health.
minister, i think the key focus of the question was that of competitiveness and how we retain competitiveness for eu producers. given that eu producers, particularly of food, have the extra costs of meeting eu standards and at the same time compete with imports from countries that do not, in those circumstances could i ask you whether you are persuaded that the cap should be used to fund maintaining the competitiveness of eu producers? without that funding we are going to suffer exactly the fate that mrs mcguinness has referred to.
question no 4 by claude moraes (h-0047/09) subject: climate change what preparations is the council making in the run up to the g8 summit in july and the climate change conference in copenhagen later this year in order to move international negotiations forward on climate change? in particular, can the council report on any improved cooperation between the eu and the new us administration in this area? in addition, what further action in the fight against climate change is the council planning in order to consolidate the package of measures agreed upon in december?
what would question time be without our irish colleagues and their effective and articulate contributions? i am speaking first now, but really to make a point to the presidency. the point behind my question is that we should be aware that our younger constituents in particular – and i am sure i am not the only one in this situation – want to urge both this presidency in its mid-term, and also the swedish presidency, to look carefully at what the americans are trying to do in ensuring that there is no conflict – and mr vondra did mention this – between tackling the urgent priority of the economic crisis, unemployment and so on, and encouraging action on climate change, promoting the climate change package and encouraging industries to be involved in the low-carbon economy. i am not asking the world, but i should like to say: please, always be aware that they are not mutually exclusive objectives. many of our younger constituents across the eu are telling our presidencies this very thing.
question no 5 by liam aylward (h-0050/09) subject: road safety according to the priorities of the czech presidency, the high number of people killed on european roads requires an enhancement of europe-wide effort to improve road safety. what plans does the presidency have to tackle this issue?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner, both for giving up her evening to come and join us in this packed house, but also for bringing the message that she has brought. it is an important green paper and it should start a major discussion within this parliament and beyond. she raised one or two questions during her submission just now, including her question about why more nurses and doctors are not coming forward. if i may say so, i think that is half the question. the other half is why so many are leaving. the key to this will be to find ways of recruiting and retaining health-care professionals. that goes particularly, perhaps, for nurses, but also for doctors and for other therapists and so on. i think we have to look at the career structures that we provide. we have to see how promotion is seen as a potential. we have to cut down some of the barriers within and between the professions. we have to ensure that the work environment is pleasant. it is going to be tough but it can be comfortable as well. we have to make sure that research facilities are available in europe so we do not lose people abroad. perhaps, above all, we have to listen to the sharp-end professionals. too often – i know from when i have been in government and you know as a commissioner – we listen to the top people and we do not go down to the beds and listen to the nurses and the doctors who are actually dealing on the ground. if we did more of that, then perhaps we would get more of our policy right. i of course want to refer – as the commissioner has referred – to my report, the parliament’s consideration of cross-border health. we said right from the beginning that important with that were the two measures that were not coming at the same time. one of them, of course, was patient safety and we do have a measure that has sped its way on the fast track to join us. this one is somewhat behind. it concerns the health professionals. we do need to have the health professionals providing that service – that back-up – to cross-border health to enable patients to move safely and with confidence. indeed, standing here in strasbourg, we think of the strasbourg, liège, luxembourg example of where the reference network concept may be of great value in terms both of patients and training and research. the commissioner has referred to the movement of health professionals, and we need to look at ways of making that a reality without endangering patient safety. i think that certainly includes the issue of language tests, which are not an obstacle but must be a protective measure for patients. she has referred to the recognition of qualifications. that clearly is important, whether you are treated at home by an incoming doctor, or you are going abroad to meet a local doctor there. there are some professions – and chiropractic is one – where you have recognition in some countries and not in others. we need to look at ways of bringing those ancillary health professionals into the centre of our planning. we also, of course, need to be sure we have patient safety in terms of doctors who are disciplined or struck off – doctors, nurses, any health professionals – and in my report i call for this to be facilitated by the commission. i think that is something we need to look at more. the commissioner rightly referred to the brain drain. it is tragic that we are not providing enough health professionals but go and grab them from the countries that can least afford it. if you look at the figures, we see, on average, 1 in 4 doctors and 1 nurse in 20 has trained in africa and is working in oecd countries. it is partly that we as countries pinch them and it is partly our ngos who also use them and recruit them in the country concerned, pay them more than they would be paid in their own services. therefore they do not go back to work there. all those things are important, commissioner. we need to look at the safety of health professionals. we need to put needle-stick injuries and hospital acquired infections on our agenda, as well as assaults on staff. we know from talking to midwives recently about the difficulty of getting professional indemnity insurance. those are some of the issues that i hope will be to the forefront in our discussions on this very welcome green paper.
madam president, i have listened to my colleagues quite rightly highlighting the shortage of water, lack of access to water, the diseases that come from that. all that is fundamentally important for this water forum. i just wanted to raise the other side of that coin because those of us who were recently in guyana with the acp regional conference were made very aware of those countries which have too much water because of climate change. mr musacchio was talking about the climate change impact on water; how it can contaminate, how it can dry it up, lose the access, but here we have too much and we have to bear in mind what that does in terms of polluting water supplies and causing damage to crops and all the rest of it. so we have, i believe, to add to this list for the water forum the issue of forestation/deforestation, because, unless we get that right, we will go on having floods as well as droughts.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i thank the commissioner for that response. i am sure you are right, commissioner, that figures can mean many things and we need to look very carefully at them. but of course today we are looking at the court of auditors, so we have to look at the figures. i sometimes wish we would look at people rather than figures, but we agree ‘no wealth without health’. that is not just a slogan but a reality in so many low-income countries. we agree that the court of auditors says only 5.5% of edf funding is going to health, whereas the european union’s policy – and parliament’s policy – is that 35% should be spent on health and education. there is a wrong figure there, and it may well not be as bad as that figure suggests. nevertheless, it shows we have got to do a lot better, and that involves cooperation – if i can use that term – with the 15% pledge enshrined in the abuja declaration by the countries themselves. but, commissioner, i want to come back to the people. go to mali and see the diabetes out of control and look at the cost to families: over 30% of their family income spent on insulin, if they have to buy it – and they do have to buy it. go to chad and ask about the mental health services, and they will tell you that they used to have them before the civil war. go anywhere in africa and see the inhumane treatment of people with epilepsy, whereas for a few cents we could make most of them seizure-free. go anywhere in africa and see the aids orphans and see and meet the grandparents trying to raise the grandchildren because the parents are dead. the statistics are there. we know that in the americas 14% of the world’s population has 10% of the global burden of disease and 42% of the health workers. sub-saharan africa has 11% of the world’s population, 25% of the global burden of disease and 3% of the health workers. it reflects the debate that we had earlier. but we have to look at those things because you cannot have health without health services, without health workers and without health education. we also have to look at some of the projects that we are embarking on. it is not just tb, aids and malaria, but all the other diseases. it is the neglected diseases, for which the commission stands proud with its cooperation with the pharmaceutical companies on that initiative to bring help to people in need of those medicines. we have to look at the causes of ill health, and the debates this evening have centred round those. only if we pull all these things together will the statistics add up – and that means the people will add up. what we do better will help people to be better, and then their economies could be better too.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam commissioner, sri lanka’s brutal civil conflict is finally nearing its end. of course it is too early to say whether this will mean the end of terrorist activity by the tamil tigers. we certainly should not support a permanent ceasefire at this stage in case it allows the tigers to regroup. in my view, their only option now is to lay down their arms or be defeated militarily with more casualties. a long-term ceasefire would be a disaster because – as a suicide attack in sri lanka earlier this week demonstrates – the ltte is ruthless, bloodthirsty and rightly identified as a terrorist organisation by the european union and the united states. we should be resolute in our support for president rajapaksa in his efforts to end an insurgency that has only brought untold human misery to sri lanka and severely retarded the economic development on that beautiful island. however, thousands of innocent civilian idps still remained trapped on a narrow coastal strip. these civilians must be allowed to leave so that the army can conclude its offensive. it is reprehensible, but entirely to be expected of the tigers, that they are exploiting these civilians as human shields. the tigers have been deaf to appeals from the international community to surrender and establish a temporary humanitarian corridor. nevertheless, allowing the un and other organisations to arrange safe passage from the conflict zone for these civilians is essential to avoid further bloodbaths. sri lanka appreciates its own responsibility in this regard and wants to avoid civilian casualties but, understandably, the army’s patience is limited and fears that the tigers will seek to escape by a sea evacuation procedure, mixing in with the civilians. therefore we on this side of the house endorse the establishment of a humanitarian corridor and a temporary and immediate ceasefire or cessation of hostilities, but we also want to see the comprehensive defeat of the ltte and a peaceful, just and multi-ethnic sri lanka established in its place, where there is maximum autonomy to the tamil majority areas and an equitable sharing of resources and power within a unitary sri lankan state.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i very much welcome this debate in the presence of the commissioner, whom i thank very much for her serious, her strong and her profound statement. it is clearly a very important subject, although it is regrettable that we are discussing it at 11 o’clock at night with so few people here. but the attendance does not, i think, reflect the interest in this topic, nor the seriousness with which many members view it. we are, to use the commissioner’s words, deeply concerned about the situation. tonight’s debate recognises also that the situation has moved on and, as mrs isler béguin said at the beginning, that we need to send a strong signal about the deteriorating situation that is worsening day by day. i support the original resolution tabled, with the exception of the one word ‘temporary’. i deplore the language that mr tannock has just used, when he said that a long-term ceasefire would be a disaster. surely – i appeal to you – we are not interested in just a temporary ceasefire. in every case of conflict around the world, this parliament, composed of compassionate people, has argued for a permanent ceasefire that can pave the way for diplomatic rebuilding, so that dialogue can begin – and, yes – so that we can get that peaceful, just and multi-ethnic society that mr tannock spoke about and with which i agree. so i applaud the greens for their first amendment, amendment 1, and i am sure that all decent people here, concerned about the civilians in sri lanka, will too. a temporary ceasefire by its very nature implies a return to war later on, which nobody wants. a return to war will mean more deaths, more suffering, more humanitarian tragedy and i cannot believe that anybody on either side of the house really wants that. likewise, amendment 2: i support this amendment too because it condemns all acts of violence by whoever is perpetrating them, on whatever side of the conflict. we cannot condone any violence, including the recent suicide attack which has been referred to. then i turn my attention to amendments 3, 4 and 5. i would like to read a short piece that i received from a sri lankan member of parliament in the jaffna district, mr selvarajah kajendren, dated 10 march. he says ‘i wish to bring to your urgent attention the civilian deaths in sri lanka. the army fired artillery shells fitted with cluster munitions from 2 a.m. till 10 a.m. on tuesday 10 march 2009’ – this week. ‘the sri lankan government forces indiscriminately attacked all parts of the “safe zone” using every kind of lethal shells, some of them banned in many countries. in this indiscriminate cluster shelling more than 130 civilians were killed, including children, and more than 200 were severely injured.’ i doubt that anyone would suggest that this is fabricated. more, i would suggest that we all want to do everything we can to help bring an end to that sort of violence. he also refers to his colleague, mr s. kanakaratnam, who is living right in the middle of the ‘safe zone’. he says that from 1 january to 6 march this year 2 544 civilians have been killed in these ‘safe zones’ by bombing campaigns and well over 5 828 civilians have been gravely injured. yet the sri lankan army, he says, have been bombing by air and artillery fire, killing on average 30 to 40 civilians on a daily basis. i do not believe that he would be fabricating. from what the commissioner has said, from all the evidence given by all the ngos that have got anywhere near there, that seems to be reflective of what is happening. amendment 6: i here refer to the report by sir john holmes, which was sent to me by his excellency the ambassador of sri lanka in brussels. in the report he says there is serious overcrowding in some of the transit sites. his words are reflected in my amendment and it is right that we should be concerned about these camps. i have some pictures of the camps. anybody is welcome to look at these pictures that have been sent to me. again i suggest they are genuine and not fabricated. i know that the commissioner’s office in colombo is following this very closely and has close contacts within the real danger zone. amendments 7 and 8 strengthen the original reference to the war zone so that civilian needs can be fully attended to. we ask for unhindered access not only to the combat zone but also to the refugee camps so that humanitarian agencies, which everybody in this house supports, are granted full access. everybody round the chamber would support the work of the humanitarian organisations. finally, amendment 9 suggests we send this resolution to the secretary-general of the united nations because i believe that this is an international humanitarian crisis, as reflected in the title, and that we should do everything we can. that is why i thank the greens for putting this down and i ask all colleagues to support the amendments tabled by all political groups.
mr president, we should be under no illusions about the terrible impact of war on innocent civilians and our moral duty to do all that we can to reduce their vulnerability and to help in the provision of humanitarian assistance. that is why parliament passed its urgent resolution on sri lanka less than three weeks ago. for decades now, sri lanka has been afflicted by a terrorist campaign conducted by the internationally proscribed ltte. there is no equivalence between terrorists and the legitimate forces of a democratic government. let us remember that it was the ltte that perfected suicide bombing as a tactic, that it pioneered the use of women in suicide attacks, and that it makes undisguised use of child soldiers and of human shields. over the last 26 years, it has systematically carried out thousands of deliberate murders across sri lanka and, just two days ago, 14 people were murdered in a suicide attack during an islamic festival in the matara district. the ltte is now in a desperate end-game and, typically in such situations, is turning to international apologists to get it off the hook. a tiny minority of members of this house were unhappy with the resolution passed by the majority in this parliament and, disgracefully and improperly, they wanted to focus condemnation on the sri lankan government. we cannot support amendments based on unattributable – and often nonsensical – allegations, as we have heard from mr evans, or selective quotation from one ngo report. we have no good reason to dispute the government’s firm assertion that its troops have not fired on no-fire zones and will not do so. six days ago the secretary-general of the united nations called on the ltte to remove its weapons and fighters from areas of civilian concentration and to cooperate in all humanitarian efforts calculated to relieve the suffering of civilians. the european union has condemned the action of the ltte in preventing civilians from leaving the conflict area. the greatest service all in this house can do is call on the ltte to lay down its arms and to release the civil population from its grip. then, much-needed humanitarian aid can be delivered, people can begin to look forward to better lives and all sri lanka can get back on the path of democratic politics and to building a fair and more prosperous society for all its citizens, free from terrorist oppression.
mr president, this is not a point of order. i was indicating to your colleague that i wanted to ‘catch the eye’ to speak, which i am allowed to do and which i thought i had done. i want to thank mr meijer for his remarks. he also referred to the valiant work of mr erik soldheim, from norway, whom i met 10 days ago in oslo. i very much agree with mr gahler, who spoke a great deal of sense: it is the fate of the civilians that concerns us. i suggest that of all the amendments, the most important is amendment 1, which calls for an immediate and total ceasefire, and which must be in the interests of all the people of sri lanka. there is much evidence. it is not circumstantial. some of it is from the office of the regional director of the health services of the sri lankan government, which talks about a humanitarian catastrophe and the substandard conditions in which people are living. this is echoed by the european commission, the icrc, the un, the international crisis group and refugee care netherlands. the title of the debate this evening is the deteriorating humanitarian situation in sri lanka, and we have a duty to do everything we possibly can to prevent that, which i think we can, if we find the right way forward.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, as rapporteur for the eastern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy, i welcome the commission’s commitment to deepening relations with six countries to the east in the new eastern partnership. it is important to emphasise that the eastern partnership should not by itself preclude the possibility that some of those countries should one day join the eu as full members. for example, as you well know, i have long been an advocate of ukraine’s eu membership, and i remain convinced that absorbing ukraine is definitely in the eu’s strategic interest. i also welcome the establishment of a new parliamentary body, euronest, as a forum for meps and national parliamentarians to reinforce each others’ democratic mandates through dialogue including, for instance, facilitating armenia and azerbaijan to sit down together and discuss the nagorno-karabakh dispute, and negotiating free trade agreements and visa facilitation through these new association agreements. however, i hope that the eastern partnership will not lead to new dividing lines being drawn between those countries in the partnership and those countries further east and outside of it. we must bear in mind that countries in central asia like turkmenistan, kazakhstan and uzbekistan are looking west to the eu for assistance and engagement. we must therefore be careful not to lose sight of our responsibilities to central asia simply because we wish to strengthen relations with countries adjacent to the eu to its immediate east. with regard to belarus, i have been a staunch critic in the past of the lukashenko dictatorship. nevertheless, i welcome the recent thaw in relations. i have long advocated a carrot-and-stick approach whereby president lukashenko’s efforts at democratic reform and openness should be recognised and rewarded by closer ties to the european union. as to whether mr lukashenko should be allowed to participate in the summit in prague to launch the new eastern partnership in may, such a step, to my mind, is probably premature, as president lukashenko still needs to demonstrate an irrevocable commitment to eu common values and democracy.
mr president, i would like to refer to ms andrikienė’s speech on the recent visit to minsk by a delegation from this parliament. commissioner, in your reply perhaps you could confirm that you would reject the view of lukashenko and his colleagues that we should have a relationship without condition. when we were in minsk we obviously met the democratic opposition leaders and we also spoke with the press. it is clear that lukashenko does want good relations with us, but this is not out of the goodness of his soul: it is because he has very serious economic problems and wants to stay in power. he has ordered his police to break up peaceful demonstrations and, having released political prisoners, he is now re-arresting them. commissioner, in your speech – which i was present for – you talked about people-to-people contact. what do we, here in the eu, say to the people of belarus and the students of belarus? are we supporting them, or are we supporting the dictatorship which, for the time being, rules over them?
mr president, as two of my colleagues are not in the chamber, i am availing myself of the time to say a couple of extra words on this issue, which is so vital to the immediate external priorities of the european union in the coming years. i want to congratulate the commission on its initiative on the issue of making energy security one of the prime objectives for dialogue and for the political agenda. external energy security policy is vital. we saw the recent spat between ukraine and russia and the downstream effects it had on consumers in countries as far afield as bulgaria and slovakia. it is important to remember that a number of the countries of the six concerned – such as belarus, ukraine and georgia – are key transit countries. there are also producers – like azerbaijan and the caspian gas and oil fields. there is potential for a trans-caspian link to central asia which, as you know, commissioner, is dear to my heart, and i have always been an advocate of further rapprochement with kazakhstan. it is important that we maintain stability in the caspian region and also diversify away from over-dependence on gas supplies from russia, and in particular gazprom, which is often used as a sort of branch of the russian foreign ministry. i have to say also, with some regret, that while the eastern partnership is great for the countries of the south caucasus – although it remains to be seen whether they can also integrate more regionally, rather than just enjoy bilateral relations with brussels – it does not bring much that is new for countries like ukraine. such countries already have access to free trade agreement negotiations, with the issue of visa facilitation on the table, along with participation in the cfsp and the sdp. there is nothing much new for ukraine, i am sorry to say, but it is great for the other countries.
mr president, as a member of eurolat i welcome the eu strategic partnership with brazil and mexico, both thriving democracies. the word ‘bric’ – for brazil, russia, india and china – is very much in the vocabulary of foreign-policy specialists, and brazil is indeed an emerging global player. president lula has demonstrated moderation in government and has been a stabilising force against the rise of populist demagogues like chávez in venezuela and morales in bolivia. brazil will be hit now by the credit crunch and the fall in commodity prices. mexico will also be affected by the dramatic fall in oil prices. these two countries have enjoyed stability. i also commend the work of president calderón in mexico and he also deserves our support in his struggle against the drug cartels. the two countries, being embedded respectively in nafta and mercosur, are big players in the region and they are key to our relations with latin america.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, the eu’s motto is ‘unity in diversity’. it is a principle that has served us well. unfortunately, such an idea does not resonate at all well with the authoritarian communist dictatorship in the people’s republic of china. diversity is suppressed, rather than embraced. minorities wishing to express themselves in any way other than the mainstream party-sanctioned way are routinely marginalised and persecuted. this trend can be seen in the treatment of many religious minorities, including christians, muslims and falun gong practitioners, and most notably in the prc’s attitude to tibet. in 1950, communist forces invaded tibet, leading to the exile of the dalai lama 50 years ago. ever since then, tibet has been under the control of beijing. the traditional tibetan culture, which was isolated for hundreds of years, has now been heavily diluted by the actions of the government, which has been at pains to prevent any sense of tibetan nationalism from resurfacing. in fact, the systematic and sometimes brutal suppression of tibetan culture has kindled the fire of tibetan identity and awakened the world’s conscience to the plight of the people of tibet. the inspirational leadership of the dalai lama has ensured that tibet’s future remains very much at the forefront of public debate, notwithstanding the huge efforts made by the prc to admonish those like the former president-in-office of the council, nicolas sarkozy, who dared to question beijing’s point of view. we in this parliament have always taken a strong line in defence of the autonomous rights of the people of tibet, which does not automatically mean the right to self-determination or independence. in doing this, we do not seek to provoke or antagonise china. however, we recognise that our commitment to certain values – human rights, democracy, the rule of law and freedom of conscience – cannot be seen separately from the undoubtedly important strategic economic partnership that the eu is developing with china. pro-china voices on the other side of the house will have their say in this debate, but for too long the people of tibet have been denied their voice, and we must speak for them.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, the socialist group is concerned about the human rights situation in china. while we recognise that the situation has improved significantly over the last 10 years, there are still many areas where human rights are still not properly or adequately protected. there may be a degree of freedom of thought, but there is not freedom of action. we would certainly highlight the failure to allow free trade unions to operate within china. we are concerned about the plight of the 100 million migrant workers who have moved from country to city and who have the most limited access to health and education. we are concerned about the plight of religious and ethnic minorities across the whole of china. nevertheless, the socialist group was opposed to this debate and resolution. the reason was proportionality. it is right to criticise china for its human rights record, as we criticise the united states for its use of the death penalty, guantánamo and extraordinary rendition, but we do not have to do it every part-session. frankly, it is becoming counterproductive. at one time, the chinese authorities paid heed to our resolutions, but no more. as some individuals and groups in their desperate attention-seeking continue to up the ante with today a demand, i think for the first time, that member states should abrogate the one-china policy and recognise the tibetan government-in-exile. the dalai lama was here only in december, speaking on behalf of tibet in the plenary. why is it necessary to revisit the issue again? there is nothing new in the resolution. i, along with elmar brok, philippe morillon and other members of this parliament, had the opportunity last summer to visit lhasa. we were the first international group to travel there after the troubles in march and spoke both to the authorities and those who were sympathetic to the tibetan protesters. as i wrote afterwards, the reality was that peaceful protests – and we support peaceful protest – turned into race riots, when shops, homes and han chinese were attacked and burned, with dozens of deaths. schools suffered arson attacks and hospitals and mosques of the muslim minority were attacked. the dalai lama himself recognised the reality of the situation when he threatened at the time to step down as a living god. china has done an enormous amount for tibet in terms of providing infrastructure, like the new qinghai–lhasa railway, and higher levels of social provision than elsewhere in rural china. the problem is it is beginning to be resented elsewhere within china. (protests) but the problem is, to quote the beatles: ‘money can’t buy you love’. tibetans still want a degree of cultural and political autonomy far beyond that which china is prepared to grant. as i said at the time, china needs a dialogue with representatives of tibet to find a solution that grants that autonomy, while protecting minority rights of ethnic and religious groups in the province. the alternative is that impatient, young tibetans will turn to violence and terrorism. as a result of the article i wrote at the time, i was asked to discuss the matter with dalai lama’s representative in london, which i did at some length. i agree with the commissioner: it is through dialogue and engagement that we will find a way forward, not through shrill, endlessly repetitive, rehashed resolutions, such as the one we have here today.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, paragraph 7 – the final paragraph – instructs you to forward this resolution to the commission, the council and those other illustrious bodies, including the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee, and the social partners but, unusually, does not instruct you to send it to the parliaments of member states. so i would like to repair that omission and propose the very simple oral amendment: ‘and the parliaments of the member states’.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in paragraph, please insert the adjective ‘secular’, so that the phrase would be: ‘stable, democratic, pluralist, secular and prosperous society’.
mr president, this report sets out turkey’s progress towards eventual membership of the eu. that is an eventual aim that i support. however, i do have some concerns about turkey’s progress towards membership. one of my concerns is the gradual erosion of the secular republican ideal and the growth of religion in politics. i am also worried about some of the human rights abuses in turkey that have been documented and some of the actions that have been taken against minority communities. we need to see action over some of those areas before we can consider turkish membership. however, it is also important for us to be honest with turkey, and to say clearly and unambiguously that, if it fulfils all the conditions that other member states have fulfilled, then it has the right to join. it is not right for individual heads of member states to put unfair and unbalanced obstacles in the path of turkish membership. if turkey fulfils the conditions, then it has the right to join, and should be permitted to do so. we need an eu which is wider and not deeper.
mr president, i was very pleased with the vote today. i visited macedonia very recently, on behalf of the westminster foundation for democracy, set up by margaret thatcher when she was prime minister of my country, and saw a country with vibrant political parties and a fascinating tax policy, with flat taxes on both corporation and income tax, and a growing economy. it is a country that this coming month is going to have free, fair and honest elections – probably better than the ones we recently had in the uk, with postal votes. such a country should be allowed to join the european union, should it choose to, based on its own self-determination – which is why my previous colleagues should possibly reflect on this matter. today we have seen a significant change because, up until this point, greek members of this house have been making themselves look completely absurd, and have been placed in a position of ridicule because of their arguments about the name of this country, which is the republic of macedonia.
mr president, the problem with speaking after mr heaton harris is that he has made many of the same points i wanted to make on this issue. it seems to me blatantly absurd that greece should continue to pursue this long-standing and, frankly, ridiculous tirade against the name of macedonia. i have some beautiful counties in my constituency – durham, northumberland – and it really does not bother me too much if another member state wishes to give itself the names of those fantastic counties. for the accession negotiations to be held up not because of an ethnic dispute or a democratic dispute or a human rights dispute but purely because the country decides to name itself macedonia, is patently ridiculous. i hope that the greek members will see the sense of this. i hope that macedonia will be judged on free criteria that apply to everybody else and, if they fulfil those criteria, if they are a democratic, secular state, if they pursue the right human rights policies then, like all other member states, they should have the right to join and not be subject to a ridiculous veto by greece purely on the grounds of the name.
mr president, the tamil tigers have been designated a terrorist group by the eu and by the united states, but thankfully it looks as though their bloodthirsty campaign for an independent tamil homeland may now be coming to an end. sri lanka deserves to live in peace, as we in europe do. like other colleagues in this house, i support a unitary state for sri lanka. i think it is also appropriate to place on record that i also think it is probably a good idea, within that unitary state, to grant the tamils a degree of autonomy. i do not support the tigers’ campaign of violence, and i consider it actually essential that the sri lankan army be permitted to continue their military campaign against the tamil tigers. however, it is also appropriate to recognise that there is a humanitarian crisis in sri lanka at the moment, and the aid agencies should be allowed access. so perhaps it is appropriate to ask for a cessation of the fighting, whilst aid agencies can get access and whilst civilians are allowed to leave the disputed areas. but after that we have to allow the army to continue their campaign.
mr president, the growth of a corpus of international jurisprudence not anchored in any elected national legislature is one of the most alarming developments of our age. we are reversing not just 300 years of legal understanding of territorial responsibility, that is, that a crime is the responsibility of the territory where it is committed; we are also going back to the pre-modern idea that people who decide on laws should not be accountable to the people who live under them, but rather only to their own consciences. it might seem very reasonable that, if a man like milošević or a man like karadžić is not receiving justice in his own country, we need to do something about it. but the objection to authoritarians like milošević is precisely that they vitiated the democracy of their country and set themselves up as being above the law. if we replicate that problem internationally, we drag ourselves down to his level, as we did with the farce of a trial we had in the hague, where for six years we had 27 changes of legal procedure, imposition of counsel and, ultimately, no conviction. i am not in favour of mr milošević: he was a baleful and wicked communist. but bad men deserve justice – bad men, especially, deserve justice – and when they do not get it, it is the rest of us who are diminished.
mr president, tibetans, like all nations, have the aspiration to live under their own laws and their own people, and, in denying their national aspirations, the chinese government uses a series of arguments about abolishing feudalism and overcoming serfdom and superstition. ultimately, it is all a version of what engels called ‘false consciousness’: they believe that the tibetans do not really understand the issue and, therefore, should not be allowed full democracy. i would just appeal to members of this house to consider the irony of the similarity between that argument and the one that was trotted out in the aftermath of the french, dutch and irish ‘no’ votes. in this chamber again, we kept on hearing that people had not properly understood the question, that they had really been voting on something else – against mr chirac, or against turkish accession, or against anglo-saxon liberalism – and that they had not understood the issue and that they needed better information. i believe that people, whether in tibet or in the nations of the european union, do have an understanding of their wishes and desires, and they should be allowed to express that through the ballot box. i know i am getting as tedious as cato the elder, but he was eventually listened to, and i will repeat, as i have in every speech, that we should have a referendum on the lisbon treaty. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the manders report on the protection of consumers, in particular minors, in respect of the use of video games. i did so with some slight reluctance. the danger is that a justifiable concern in some cases turns into a ‘moral panic’ that is wilfully disproportionate to the extent of the problem. i am not necessarily committed to moving further than we have done so already.
in writing. − i do not understand how a parliament that has called for the lifting of israel’s economic blockade of gaza can today have voted in favour of a report intended to increase our cooperation with that country. last tuesday was a fairly typical day at the gaza crossings. israel allowed through a limited amount of food, some hygiene products, some cooking oil, and some heavy diesel fuel, in all a total of 110 truckloads – although unrwa tells us that the gaza strip needs 500 truckloads of supplies each day. no writing paper for the schools was allowed through, no clothing, no furniture, no electrical equipment, and no materials for reconstruction. gaza has been bombed to bits and israel is not allowing it to be rebuilt. the misery continues. our president has visited, javier solana has visited, national mps have visited, meps have visited, even tony blair has visited. all have called for an end to the suffering, yet israel has changed nothing. this was not the time for us to give our support to this report.
in writing. − i voted against because due to the precarious nature of the stocks there should be a ban on the fishing of bluefin tuna until the stocks recover.
in writing. − i welcome today's resolution on sri lanka. what is happening in the north of the country is a tragedy, largely hidden from the eyes of the world, as humanitarian organisations and journalists have not been freely allowed in to see what is happening but have to rely largely on partisan information. even before the government's military action, it has been impossible for there to be an open debate, due to press and political harassment. there can be no long-term military solution to the conflict but only a political solution which recognises the rights of all people on the island. there must be an immediate ceasefire on both sides to relieve the enormous human suffering. if the interests of the tamil people come first, as both sides claim, why is this continuing suffering necessary? what purpose does it serve in finding a long-term solution? peace talks must involve all parties. the channels will be open for dialogue, if that is what both parties want. but there must be an end to violence and oppression and active implementation of human rights instruments and the rule of law if people are to have any confidence in the outcome. the international community stands ready to assist, both in the relief of the immediate suffering and in the long term.
in writing. − it is important in this time of financial and economic crisis that we maintain and strengthen workers’ rights to ensure that the costs of the crisis do not fall on those least able to bear it. it would be all too easy for this to happen unless we ensure that the balance of forces is not allowed to shift to favour employers over employees. i therefore support this resolution. i only wish it were stronger.
in writing. − we have to do all we can to help children of immigrants fulfil their potential and flourish in their new environment.
in writing. − while i support the main thrust of this report, i oppose the lack of balance on the particular question of cyprus. i strongly oppose amendments 14 and 15, which are directed exclusively against turkey on several questions, including the fulfilment of international obligations, and make no equivalent calls for action or engagement on the part of the greek or greek cypriot authorities. during the committee stage, my amendment rejecting the idea that resolution of the cyprus question is to be achieved through unilateral action by turkey was not accepted. i called on the council – as a preliminary step – to give practical effect to its commitment of 26 april 2004 to end the isolation of the turkish cypriot community. nevertheless, without abandoning my reservations, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which will ensure that all those who committed war crimes in the former yugoslavia will not escape justice. i support this report because it will extend the temporary icty which prosecutes those who committed war crimes in the former yugoslavia by two years, ensuring enough time for the completion of ongoing trials.
in writing. − water is a precious resource, and access to clean drinking water across the world has to be a key priority. too many people, in 2009, in the developing world have no access to clean drinking water. we have to focus our efforts in helping countries and communities in the poorest parts of the world have access to this resource.
in writing. − history is littered with wars over access to land and oil, but i fear they will pale into insignificance when compared to likely future conflicts over access to water. water is the most vital of all resources: life is impossible without it. yet even in developed countries we are seeing serious water shortages. the consequences for less developed countries are catastrophic. the international community must take access to water much more seriously before it is too late. as we have seen in copenhagen this week, climate change is accelerating at an alarming rate, which will further exacerbate water shortages. access to clean water is a basic human right, so let us make it a major campaign.
in writing. − the eplp wishes to see the single european payment area a success. that is why we cannot support the amendments to this report which extend the life of the mif (multilateral interchange fee). this fee is uncompetitive and raises costs for consumers. this would undermine the thrust of the report’s objective of making sure the single market breaks down barriers and reduces costs. we could not support this resolution in the final vote because these amendments were accepted.
in writing. − the eu needs to take a greater interest in the increasing violence in mexico created by drug wars. the doubling in murders related to drug violence is a worrying situation.
author. − madam president, it was entirely predictable that president omar al-bashir of sudan would respond to his indictment by the icc with a political gesture, but by expelling ngos and aid agencies from his country he has reinforced the popular image of a brutal tyrant, without any concern for the plight of the long-suffering people he nominally governs. a few people still argue that what has happened in darfur is not genocide. fewer still support bashir openly, although china – regrettably – has been a lone voice in his defence because of the heavy chinese involvement in sudan’s extractive industries. like most members, i welcome the indictment of president bashir by the icc and the issue of an international arrest warrant. it may not succeed, but it is an important gesture to show the world’s disgust at the horrors he has perpetrated in darfur without any remorse. i also think that the indictment strengthens the reputation of the icc, which hitherto has been shunned by some, including the great powers such as the usa, for fear of politically motivated prosecutions. indeed it is fascinating that the united states, which is not a signatory to the rome statute, has nonetheless used its position on the un security council to facilitate the icc indictment of bashir. one possible way out of the impasse that now exists is for the security council to strike down the indictment, as it has a right to do under the rome statute, on condition that bashir goes into exile and the killings and repression stop, and in partial recognition that sudan was never a signatory to the rome statute. while this might seem to some like an unjust response to the killings in darfur and effectively grants some form of partial immunity, it would remove the main protagonist and spare the long-suffering people of darfur more bloodshed and enable sudan as a country to move on. of course, if bashir refuses, then he should be prosecuted with the full force of international law. the au, arab league and china should make this clear to president bashir before it is too late for him and his brutal regime.
author. − madam president, the situation in darfur is desperate. can you imagine the human suffering behind the united nations statistics? according to the un, up to 4.7 million people – including 2.7 million internally displaced persons – are in need of assistance. we cannot allow this situation to deteriorate even more, and i urge the sudanese government to step back from the decision to expel 13 leading non-governmental organisations from darfur. the aid agencies in darfur run the largest humanitarian operation in the world. only today we have discovered, i believe, that three people who work for médecins sans frontières are missing. the departure of the ngos could lead to even more loss of life, due to the break in medical services and outbreaks of infectious diseases such as diarrhoea and respiratory infections. children are greatly at risk. the united nations has said that kicking out the humanitarian groups puts more than one million lives at risk. i stress the overriding humanitarian need to allow the agencies to continue with their lifesaving work. as president obama said, it is not acceptable to put that many people’s lives at risk. we need to be able to get those humanitarian organisations back on the ground. i urge colleagues to support this resolution.
author. – madam president, my group proposes to delete paragraphs 2 and 6. this is not because we do not support the content but because we do not think it is necessary in this resolution and that, given the delicacy of the situation, it might help get mr al-bashir to reverse his decision and allow the ngos to go back. so we are calling for the deletion of paragraphs 2 and 6. i understand there will be a similar request from the socialists and they will also be requesting the deletion of paragraph 5, which we also support for similar reasons.
mr president, the revision and reform of parliamentary procedures is now heading up the agenda, and i am sure that this is a subject very much dear to your own personal heart. can i please underpin the comments already made by a few colleagues about the importance of intergroups? i am co-president of the intergroup on ageing, and, as you may be aware, over 50% of voters this year – for the very first time – will be over 50 as opposed to under 50. so, ageing issues are not just something that are of interest to people in here but are of interest to people, right outside, amongst our constituents. i would plead with you, mr president, to use the qualities of clarity and fairness which are the hallmarks of your presidency to make sure that the work of intergroups can be facilitated and not hindered from here on. have we got your promise, please?
mr president, it is more than a month since you visited gaza, but the latest figures from the israeli government show that nothing has changed: still no materials for reconstruction are being allowed through the checkpoints; no material for schools, no material for industry. the bombing has stopped, but the blockade continues. perhaps this would be a good time for this parliament to try and influence opinion by hosting an exhibition of the t-shirts to which reference has been made by another member – clothing produced to the design of soldiers, such as the sniper from the givati brigade, whose design incorporates a pregnant palestinian woman and the slogan: ‘one shot, two kills’. there are other reports in israeli newspapers of other designs that are more racist, more extreme, more vile. such an exhibition might encourage members to question whether or not we should be continuing with the eu-israel association agreement in the present circumstances.
rapporteur. − mr president, when we are directly involved we always tend to overstate the importance of an issue, but on this particular issue i do not think we can overstate its importance. we are dealing with a series of agreements here tonight that have the ability to affect the lives, the quality of the lives and the health of literally millions of people in the developing world. before turning to the substance of my report, i want to pay tribute to my colleague, glenys kinnock, who, as co-president of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, has been at the forefront of making concerns about economic partnership agreements (epas) and the development impact of epas heard, not just in this parliament but giving a voice to acp concerns throughout the world. as many of you know, glenys is giving up at the end of this parliament, and i think we will very much miss the work that she has done in relation to the acp, and epas in particular. epas have a difficult history in this parliament. there has been real tension between trade and development objectives. some of that could have been avoided, but some of it is, frankly, intrinsic in the nature of the agreements. firstly, they were forced on us by a wto ruling, and one-way liberalisation, which is essentially what epas required, is not easy to negotiate. secondly, the artificial deadline that was set for completing the full and interim epas meant that negotiations, which should have been between equals, were in fact not between equals, because the acp side had something to lose if the deadlines were not met. finally – and this is not a criticism of them but of the reality of the negotiations – our negotiations were carried out by trade experts. trade experts by their nature aim to get the best possible deal for the european union. they did not necessarily aim to get the best development outcome. i repeat: that is not a criticism; that is what they are trained to do. but that is the reality of the negotiations. we have, as a parliament, since the conclusion of the negotiations been trying to square the circle between trade and development. i want to concentrate my remarks as rapporteur for the cariforum epa, which of course, at the moment, is the only full economic partnership agreement. as this epa has been signed, we cannot amend the text, we only have an opportunity to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to it. i believe that, if the commission and the commissioner are able to give us certain assurances and certain interpretations of the text, we could be in a position this week to give our assent to the cariforum epa. lewis carroll, the author, had one of his characters, humpty dumpty, say in a scornful tone: ‘when i use a word, it means just what i choose it to mean, neither more nor less’. frankly, until recently, trying to understand some of the words in the cariforum epa has been a bit like that: trying to get clarity as to what the text actually means has not always been easy. i would like to hear the commissioner today reassure us on a number of points. firstly, that the review clause in the agreement is a genuine review clause and will be taken seriously by the commission: that we will look at development priorities, such as the alleviation of poverty, sustainable development, economic diversification and the contribution to achieving the millennium development goals at the five-year point to ensure that epas are working in the interests of all these things, not against their interests. secondly, i would like to hear the commissioner reassure us on the finance for epas. calculations suggest that roughly eur 580 million are available for the cariforum countries over the existing edf and other financial framework periods up to 2013. in my opinion – but of course i am no expert on this – this should be enough to meet the demands of the epas if they are properly programmed, if the money is all spent, if the caribbean countries’ priorities are met in terms of where the money should be spent. furthermore, we have to make sure that the member states deliver their part of the eur 2 billion that has been promised for ‘aid for trade’ across the developing world. we also have to look at the post-2013 position; we cannot get any assurances from the commission on that, because that is for parliament and the council, but we have to be aware that the money runs out, the commitments run out in 2013. the third assurance i want is on the most-favoured-nation (mfn) status. i have said to the commissioner before that i entirely understand that the european union should insist on exactly the same terms and conditions that the caribbean countries give to the united states or another major developed power. but we should not be invoking the mfn clause if the caribbean countries do a favourable deal with, say, a group of african countries. fourthly – and i am coming to a conclusion here – on access to medicines, we need assurance that nothing in the cariforum agreement threatens the use of the trips mechanism – the mechanism should be put in no doubt. i want to hear these assurances from the commissioner but, even in advance of hearing them, i want to conclude by saying that i firmly believe the commissioner has changed the tone and the nature of the discussion on epas, and i pay tribute to her for the work she has already done in this area.
author. − madam president, firstly can i apologise to the commissioner and to my fellow rapporteurs for missing the debate until about five minutes ago? i have been delayed getting here and have managed to arrive at the last minute. i hope that i will not be repeating what other people have said, or at least not too much, and can i ask them to bear in mind my apology for that? i am actually speaking on two issues: i am speaking as the rapporteur on the interim economic partnership agreement with the pacific and as the shadow rapporteur on behalf of the socialist group on behalf of the interim economic partnership with eastern and southern africa. the whole debate that we are having this evening was not triggered by any decision of the european commission or the european union that we wanted a new trade relationship with the countries of the african, caribbean and pacific, but by a decision – a decade or more or so now – of the world trade organisation that we were unfairly discriminating in favour of some developing countries at the expense of others. some people have said that this should be just about development – i am very much in favour of that – but we have to bear in mind that one of the underlying requirements is that it is actually about making our agreements with these countries wto-compatible. so we have to do that; that it is the first thing. on top of wto compatibility, we must do whatever we can to try and improve the situation of these various regional blocks and to try and deal with the particular situations that actually face them. with respect to the pacific, for which i am the rapporteur, we have a collection of 14 – plus one if you include east timor – very small nation-states. one, in fact, is the smallest country in the world, with a population that is exactly one million times less than that of china – nauru. but even the biggest ones are actually comparatively small, and we need to take that into account in what requirements and demands we put on them. we need to make sure that there are adequate transition periods for small and medium-sized enterprises because, quite frankly, apart from some mining enterprises in papua new guinea, they are all small and medium-sized enterprises. we need to do what we can about regional trade and in particular to take into account the special relationship that countries of the pacific have with australia and with new zealand. only two of the 14 have actually signed up for the interim agreement. however, i know from my visit to port moresby at the last acp meeting that there are other pacific countries that would like to sign a final agreement provided it meets their requirements, which is why, in my case, i am actually in favour of the interim agreement. that is the message i got, both from the governments of papua new guinea and fiji. not that they are entirely happy – there are issues that they would like to renegotiate – but they see the answer as being signing up and accepting an interim agreement which would lead towards a final agreement which will be more development friendly and will enable more of the pacific countries to actually engage. we also need to look at a number of specific issues that apply in particular in papua new guinea and fiji and elsewhere in the pacific, but may apply to some other of these agreements. we need to look at intellectual property right negotiations that cover not only western technological artefacts but traditional knowledge; we need to make sure that there is a transparency of government procurement with openness to european contracts triggered at a point appropriate to the needs of the pacific nation-states; we need to look in the case of the pacific particularly at working visas to be made available in the european union to pacific island nationals for periods of at least 24 months for them to be able to work – not in the higher professions but probably working as carers and in similar occupations. can i say, with respect to eastern and southern africa, that many of these points would apply there? i particularly would like to thank mr caspary for working together with me on this and, on the pacific, let me say the work of mr audy. but with respect to the esa we need to look at good-governance issues in particular. this includes zimbabwe. i do not have a problem with an interim agreement but i think a final agreement would be difficult for parliament to accept unless there was a clear road map in the case of zimbabwe to see an establishment of a properly democratic regime there and one that could find some way out of the difficulties it is in at the moment. the last point i would like to make in relation to esa, apart from to endorse the report of mr caspary – with some of the amendments which have been tabled – is to mention the situation of the chagos archipelago. it is in there because i tabled an amendment, which was accepted. normally in these kinds of agreements we actually consult with neighbouring countries and neighbouring territories. the chagos archipelago is in the middle of part of this region: seychelles-mauritius-madagascar. these people are currently refugees in seychelles, and i hope that we will consult with them between now and any final agreement being made as to what the impact might be on them and on their territory should they get the right to return.
author. − mr president, my apologies for being late, and thanks to the staff for moving me back up the agenda. commissioner ashton, you have basically said most of the things i was going to say, so i am going to just reiterate one or two for this house. interim agreements are goods agreements aimed at preventing disruption of acp trade and promoting gradual integration. it gives the acp the opportunity to trade its way out of poverty and i think recognising these agreements include a number of contentious issues: services, most-favoured-nation (mfn) rules of origin, which have been brought to my attention on many occasions. these you will need to redress, i do apologise if i missed you saying that earlier on. the assent procedure for cariforum states and côte d’ivoire is crucial to realising the potential of these reforms. approval of these signed agreements will allow for a formal negotiation procedure to progress. this will provide a level of legality essential for protecting acp markets and securing a more stable environment. with regard to the resolutions on cariforum – the only full economic partnership agreement (epa) – i call upon members to support the original text of the committee on international trade. it provides for a more balanced trade and development approach and is intended to support a number of the compromises proposed by the rapporteur. i believe these resolutions highlight both the opportunities and challenges facing the negotiating parties in a key step to ensuring parliamentary oversight and approving of the relations with acp. commissioner, you mentioned at the very beginning that trade was so important; i totally agree with you. we also said we are in a particularly difficult financial situation. this is something which i believe you have taken to heart and that you are working extremely hard on. i congratulate you on the way you have handled these – more power to your elbow, as we say in the uk. we are at a difficult stage and trade will be the only option and not just for these countries but for the rest of the world. it is so important. thank you for the way you have changed; you took over halfway through at a difficult time. congratulations, and all power to your elbow again.
mr president, we all know that there have been many criticisms of economic partnership agreements (epas). i share some of those criticisms. i agree that epas should not be a method for aggressively opening up markets for eu companies only: they should also be of benefit to entrepreneurs and consumers in poor countries. i share erika mann’s concern over the ‘one size fits all’ approach to epas, which does not take account of the differences between regions and between countries within regions. i welcome the fact that we have actually signed interim agreements only with those countries that have shown an interest in signing such agreements. i was also concerned at the view expressed by a commission official, at a meeting of the committee on international trade (inta) a few months ago, that epas were more than just about trade and development and that they were about regional political integration as well. i believe, like many of my colleagues in this parliament, that this decision should be left to the countries themselves, especially those which are democracies that do not want to sit in a regional assembly with dictatorships from the same region. despite these concerns, we should welcome the assent of the inta committee for these epas. for a while i was concerned about some of the anti-trade rhetoric i heard from the socialists, when they voted against or abstained in committee. epas may not be perfect but many of my friends and family in poorer countries are fed up at the lack of access to goods and services and at being forced to rely on state-run monopolies or companies with links to corrupt politicians. that the socialists wanted to keep it that way is also a matter of concern. let us not forget that import taxes often mean poor citizens having to pay more for imported food and medicines. i wish to thank the commissioner for her determination in continuing the negotiations for the economic partnership agreements. they are not perfect, but we owe it to entrepreneurs and consumers in poorer countries to help them enjoy the access to goods and services that we in the eu currently enjoy.
mr president, i can confirm, as others have done, that what we have seen since cathy ashton became commissioner has been a sea change not only in style and tone, but also in vocabulary and now increasingly in substance. i am sure the commissioner will agree with me and many of us in this room that we still face a formidable task as we try now to build and rebuild trust after years of negotiation which have created enormous amounts of tension and acrimony. in the almost exactly 10 years since cotonou was signed, we have to remind ourselves what actually was said in the agreements about the trade prospects between acp and eu. the wording was ‘a new framework for trade which is equivalent to their existing situation and in conformity with wto rules’. we have to really work much more towards fulfilling those objectives. the policy of concluding separate deals with separate countries has led to serious inconsistencies, and i can confirm to those who do not know the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa), and who do not have as much contact with parliamentarians in the acp as i and others in this room have, that it has created really very difficult situations and severely damaged the cohesion that i perceived amongst the acp in the past. i know that just a few weeks ago the new president of ghana wrote a letter on behalf of the entire acp group to the eu presidency, and he claimed that the epa process continued to threaten the very existence of some of the regional integration groupings. that is a recent comment by a new president. acp parliamentarians tell us at every single one of our meetings that there has barely been any engagement with them and little, if any, consultation with them. i would like the commissioner to tell us what she might think is appropriate in the future on this. i am pleased to see what has happened in the sadc negotiations, but clear commitments on the modification of texts, transition periods for tariff regularisation, safeguards, rules of origin etc. are now up for grabs there with sadc, and hopefully you will confirm that they are options for all the acp countries who will be continuing to negotiate. will you tell us please, commissioner, that you will insist on precise commitments in an epa to development programmes and that trade liberalisation has to be linked to development benchmarks? if that is the case, how will you do it? will you see to it that there are legally binding commitments in epas to the provision of time-scaled and predictable funding? commissioner, i think the acp countries, as you said to us earlier, face a period of slower growth and, for the first time in 25 years, efforts to reduce poverty are being brought to a close. i have just two final quick points, one on the cariforum epa: it is not a perfect outcome but it still needs safeguards. on côte d’ivoire, we need to have the reassurances that erika mann asked for and which mr van hecke asked for. that is very important for us. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, if we take a step back to the start of the epas process, the cotonou agreement of 2000 established that the eu has a legal obligation to take developing countries’ interests into account in all policy areas that are likely to affect them. in 2005, the commission identified this policy coherence on development as being key to the attainment of the millennium development goals. i regret the spat that has taken place between the committee on international trade and the committee on development over which has the lead role on epas, because parliament itself could have reacted more coherently at certain points when the epa negotiations were in practice, losing sight of the promise that these were development instruments. finally, i was glad the commissioner mentioned services, because i am concerned about the opening-up of banking in particular. western countries failed to regulate properly the big international banks operating on their own territories, so you have to ask whether it is really wise to open up the banking sector in countries where there is much less of a regulatory regime in place, and when the wto rules do not require such a move. opening up the banking sector may help big companies, but it can drive local banks to join the pursuit of high-value customers and ignore small businesses, leaving them with even less access to credit than before.
mr president, i just want to touch on two issues as far as assent is concerned. i mentioned cariforum. everyone is feeling very comfortable and optimistic about the cariforum agreement, but of course there is still a need for certain safeguards. certainly, at the recent meeting in guyana, that was made absolutely clear by the president and others in that country, as well as members of parliament. the issue of bananas was raised. baroness ashton, you said there will be duty-free and quota-free access, which is fine, but the issue is that the agreements that have been signed with central america, and subsequently with mercosur and the andean pact countries, will reduce the tariffs for them, and nothing we do is going to make it possible for banana producers in the acp to remain competitive. that is a critical issue, and the agreements have been reached before the ink has even dried on the cariforum agreement. there are also deep concerns in the caribbean about the implementation units, which have still not been set up. there are still problems caused by the tensions that have been created between the various countries in the caribbean. there is also the issue of haiti. the donors’ conference did not produce as satisfactory an outcome as we would have liked, and there are some concerns about whether the epa can be fully agreed or worked upon as long as haiti is not involved. as regards côte d’ivoire, we would like very clear assurances. it is a country which has experienced a great deal of turmoil, uncertainty and instability over many years, and it is very important that we give assent, but also that we have assurances that you will indicate, in the form of a letter to the negotiators in côte d’ivoire and to the côte d’ivoire government, that we remain committed to negotiating in good faith for a decent outcome for the people of that country.
rapporteur. − mr president, firstly let me say that this has been a very good debate. we have had very positive contributions from both the council and the commission. i want particularly to pick up on what the council said about the cariforum being an example, but not a template, for other epas. i absolutely agree with that. it could be the basis for others, but each epa has to have its own individuality, and we have to learn the lessons from the cariforum negotiations as well. secondly, i was delighted that the council was able to make a commitment on aid for trade, to the effect that the member states intend to deliver on that aid. i was pleased that both the council and the commission gave reassurances on access to medicines and that both the council and the commission reassured us that the five-year review will be a real review that looks at development objectives to make sure that they are being met. i was delighted that the commissioner said she believed that regulation had to be in place prior to any liberalisation and opening-up of financial services. for some of us in this chamber, that is also extremely important. she indicated – as we already knew, but it was important to have it on record – that nothing in these agreements forces privatisation of services in any of the caribbean countries and that there is no expectation, through this agreement, that privatisation of public services will take place. i was pleased that she also made commitments on most-favoured-nation status. based on the fact that what the commission has said and what the council has said are now on the record in this house, i would, as rapporteur, be delighted to recommend to the house that it should give assent to the caribbean epa. let me turn to a separate issue, which is the resolution. a couple of my conservative epp colleagues have made comments about this. for the socialists, there are still red lines in terms of the current state of the resolution, which is different from the assent vote. actually, all the things that the council and commission have committed themselves to are our red lines. so if the house is supporting the council and commission, i see no reason why it should not support our compromises and compromise text and get those into the parliament resolution. i hope that, at the end of the day, we can vote both for assent and for a consensual resolution that both opens up trade and makes very strong development commitments.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, parliament is coming to the end of its term and some of us are starting to make preparations for the elections. in the united kingdom, at least, i see us faced with a sea of euro-sceptics and europhobes wishing to criticise everything we do at every opportunity. and the history of this legislation will give them some ammunition: 55 significant changes over the past 30 years, making it more cumbersome and confusing and hardly helping the industry or consumers. yet, i find that the critics often tend to stop short. they do not tend to actually look at what the european union is doing to try and improve upon the existing situation and to put benefits into practice. they assume we are always static. so, here we have a piece of legislation that in practice has ensured that existing arrangements are simplified, that red tape is cut, that the legislation is clarified for all. and we have a directive turned into a regulation. now back in my country that is terrible – that takes a way a bit of freedom for manoeuvre for member states – but the reality is, as we have seen with reach, as we now see with this, industry does not want 27 different interpretations of a european rule, it wants the facility of knowing exactly where it stands across this market, the greatest market of its kind in the world. will the critics stand up and say, ‘we were wrong to insist that cmrs be banned’? will they stand up and say, ‘we were wrong’? will they say what we should be putting into cosmetics, products that we would not put into foods, despite the fact that some of these cosmetics we put on our skins, in our eyes, even taking in our mouths? will they oppose proper assessments being made of cosmetics or the centralised information service which the commissioner has rightly said will actually save industry money? i do not think they will do any of these things. my colleague frédérique ries, who cannot be with us tonight, wanted to ensure that steps were taken to try and avoid the marketing of counterfeit products, to strengthen product traceability and to tighten up restrictions on the making of false claims about the beneficial effects of these products. she wanted to support clear labelling of products about the content of nanomaterials. we have made progress on all these areas. so, on her behalf, i would like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and commissioner verheugen. i think it is a good piece of legislation and i for one, as i go into this election process, will be very happy to hold this up as an example of what the european union can do well.
, deputising for the rapporteur (ppe-de). – mr president, i spend a lot of my time in this parliament telling people that i am not mr karim and that i am, in fact, mr kamall. it must be confusing for people to hear mr kamall speaking on a karim report. i am speaking on his behalf as, owing to unforeseen circumstances, he cannot be here tonight, for which he apologises. his report effectively covers trade in goods, services, investment and intellectual property, and development issues. a joint alternative resolution by the ppe-de, alde and uen groups has now been tabled, because it was felt that the original committee decision was the upshot of a rather unrepresentative vote, which left the report with several protectionist clauses intact. the alternative resolution better highlights how important a trading partner india is for the eu and the benefits that the liberalisation of trade can bring to both countries. the eu and india launched negotiations in june 2007 on what is termed a free trade agreement, but what many would probably more correctly call a preferential trade agreement. the report calls for the conclusion of a comprehensive, ambitious and balanced free trade agreement between the eu and india, which should improve market access to goods and services, covering substantially many areas of trade, and including provisions on regulatory transparency in areas relevant to mutual trade investment, as well as things like sanitary and phytosanitary standards, intellectual property protection, trade facilitation and customs. the main points of the report indicate that, if you look at trade in goods, india’s average applied tariffs have decreased to levels that are now comparable with other countries in asia – notably india’s average applied tariff, which is now 14.5% compared to an eu average of 4.1%. it also notes india’s concerns about the implications of reach, costly certificates for exporting fruit to the eu and costly conformity procedures for the ec mark, and stresses that those issues must be resolved in the preferential trade agreement. the report also points out that services liberalisation must in no way hinder the right to regulate services, including public services. however, it should also be recognised that quite often the state is unable to provide so-called ‘public’ services, and we should recognise that there is a role for non-state actors – the private sector – in providing essential services to the poor, especially when the state itself cannot do this on its own, quite often owing to a shortfall in income. trade in services between the eu and india is relatively unbalanced, with the eu exporting 1.5% of its services to india, while india exports 9.2% of its services to the eu. the report also encourages india to develop appropriate data protection legislation to ensure that, in our trade in services, we can have confidence in the ability of indian companies to handle large amounts of data, since there are concerns about data protection. the report also recognises that the investment chapters have often come accompanied by a commitment to liberalising capital movements and renouncing capital controls. so we ask the commission to refrain from including such clauses, given the importance of capital controls, especially for poorer countries, to mitigate the impact of the financial crisis. the report goes on to welcome india’s commitment to strong intellectual property protection and to the use of trips flexibilities to meet certain public health obligations. once again, we should all be aware that too many obligations on public health can often leave citizens in poorer countries unable to access medicines, because there is no incentive for pharmaceutical companies to develop medicines for those countries. finally, the report recognises that a substantial development chapter is an essential part of any trade agreement, and that we should ensure trade and foreign direct investment. it also recognises that there is concern, particularly in this house, over issues such as environmental standards and core labour, occupational health and safety legislation. we should also recognise that, in seeking some sort of balance between trade issues and environmental protection, ilo standards etc, the pendulum can often swing too far one way and we end up with these taking precedence over trade and condemning poor countries to even more poverty because we make it difficult for entrepreneurs in those countries to develop capacities.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. − madam president, i would just like to focus on the microcredit issue, which the committee on budgets completely supports as it will help people without access to normal sources of funds – the very sort of people who need help in the current environment. we also welcome the commission’s jasmine initiative. however, there are certain considerations that we want to state. firstly, funds should only be used where other sources are not appropriate, owing either to high risk or low profitability. secondly, they must also be used to bring in private finance. thirdly, because of different approaches from different member states, we would like to look at whether it is feasible to have an eu framework for non-bank microfinance institutions. we would also like to look at whether interest-rate caps, which are used in some countries, are appropriate in these circumstances. in the longer term, we would like to get beyond the use of structural funds for this important initiative, because some of the people who need help are not in the areas that have support from the structural funds.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − madam president, small enterprises play an essential part in creating cohesion in the eu, and the extension of microcredit will underpin smes’ economic recovery. the committee on legal affairs recognises that establishing a firm can be a daunting process. the eu needs to do more by providing proper legal advice on setting up a business. one way to do this would be to establish a european network of lawyers prepared to give advice on micro-business start-ups, initially on a pro bono basis. urgent efforts are needed to tackle the regulatory burden on micro-businesses and to make micro-finance institutions as accessible as possible. we need this type of legislation more than ever, but legislation on its own is not enough. the commission has to make sure this is transformed into real action that can be felt at the ground level immediately, because this report is not just about entrepreneurship: microcredit also delivers social cohesion, and it encourages people to take ownership of their lives and their potential. my congratulations to all the rapporteurs.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs for all these excellent reports and especially the one i shadowed. i thank the rapporteur for his good cooperation and hard work. it was not the easiest of reports to draft, but we managed to find good compromises on the key points. i welcome the fact that we are having this debate now. rural development is a very important issue and we must ensure that all available eu funding for rural development is being exploited and used in the most effective and efficient manner. in my opinion, rural development is about supporting active farming communities, especially young farmers and farmers who wish to diversify their businesses. proper business projects in rural areas should be focusing on improving infrastructure and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. the central focus of this report is about ensuring that rural development projects, whether funded by the structural funds or the erdf, do not overlap or, at worst, miss out on opportunities. what is clear from this report is that better coordination between regional development policy and the erdf is needed. i do not feel, however, that i can support a situation where funds are raised via modulation for redistribution back through the regional development authority. if farmers are being asked to pay into the cap then they must ensure that their monies come back into the rural communities. i believe this must be active through the second pillar of the cap. however, the rapporteur has successfully opened up a debate on this relevant topical issue. i agree with him on the main focuses of this report, but this will be a problem for the next parliament to decide.
madam president, i speak on the van nistelrooij report and to emphasise three points. first, that territorial cohesion involves promoting polycentric development across the european union. this means eliminating disparities within, as well as between, regions. there is consequently a need for improved spatial analysis and the development of indicators against which policies can be designed and their impact assessed. second, there must be an integrated approach, with measurement in advance of the effect that sectoral policies would have at regional levels and the achievement of greater synergy between them. certainly, such impact assessment could pre-empt certain problems, such as those posed by the electronic identification of sheep in scotland. third, an integrated approach demands proper multilevel governance, involving all stakeholders in the design and implementation of strategies. what the commissioner has said in these respects has been very welcome, and i hope for great support for this excellent report.
madam president, i wish to speak about urban and city funding. commissioner, you have visited belfast a number of times. you will have seen, i hope, as i have, the distinct benefit of the urban programme, particularly in north belfast. hence i regret the passing of that programme, particularly since nothing comparable has taken its place. the switch of focus to private-public partnerships is a poor substitute with access to jessica doing little to soften the blow, at least so far. in truth we moved away from urban without a practical substitute in place. in the present economic climate, the prospect of jessica producing the anticipated leverage effect is diminishing, leaving an unfilled gap in many cities where urban redevelopment and investment are still needed. the gap between lip-service in government strategies and delivery on the ground is widening with every tightening of the fiscal belt. thus the absence of specific funding for urban spend in the 2007-2015 programme is increasingly being felt. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, the committee on regional development and the funds put into the whole of europe are the most important programme in the whole of the european community. i can speak for north-west england and say how very much these funds have benefited the city of liverpool, in particular, over the last 10 years. looking onward to the future, i can see that city continuing to expand on the basis of these well-allocated, well-controlled funds. i would call for more involvement of the private sector in the way that the funds are allocated, managed and controlled, because the private sector can always do a more efficient job than the public sector. i would also like to emphasise how very invaluable these monies have been to the rural areas of the north west, where there are a lot of agricultural areas, which are vital to the whole economy. finally, let me say that i back mr becsey on his microcredit. this is a very interesting development and essential at this time in the economic situation.
mr president, much of what we have discussed here this morning will go to the next parliament to implement. there is no doubt about that. rural development is central to the development of the rural economy, but when the second pillar was designed and brought about to support rural society some years ago, they did not provide sufficient funds to support that second pillar. we now have modulation, which is taking the extra funds from the farmers’ single farm payment to develop rural society and the rural economy. i know there is going to be a battle here. there are those who want to take regional policy, or support for rural society, away from dg agriculture and give it to dg regio, which is unacceptable to those who live in the rural economy. we had that debate way back in the early 1990s under ray macsharry and we are not returning to it. i say ‘no way’. extra funding must be spent under agriculture and in the rural economy to support small farmers and people active in rural areas.
mr president, i rise in respect of the martens report, because its title, ‘one year after lisbon’, gives me the opportunity to reflect on where we are, one year after lisbon, in the european union. where we are is in absolute chaos: we cannot respond to the economic crisis; there is a return to protectionism, particularly by the government of france, and there now has to be a recognition that the lisbon treaty is not merely wrong but is ineffective. we have listened – or we should have listened – to the people of ireland, who made it perfectly clear in their referendum that they did not want this treaty. but, if we did not listen before, we should listen now. this is a treaty that is unloved, unwanted and, most importantly, ineffective, and this parliament should recognise the fact.
mr president, i am very conscious that the treaty of lisbon is, as my colleague david sumberg has just said, a train wreck as regards the european union. however, i want to focus on the excellent report that maria martens has produced. it talks about something very fundamental in the way we disburse our aid. maria martens has identified that, if national parliaments in the acp countries are not empowered to look at the country strategy papers and discuss them in a transparent fashion, then the funds that the eu provides acp countries could be used in the wrong way. it gives power to the national parliaments in acp countries to scrutinise the development assistance that is being provided, in the same way that the lisbon treaty should have given more power to national parliaments within the eu to scrutinise what we are doing here. ms martens’ report takes into account accountability and transparency, so i support it.
mr president, i agree with my colleague who spoke previously, mr sumberg, when he reflects on the lisbon treaty and where we are one year after lisbon itself. however, i really want to focus on the eu-africa partnership aspect of that. in any partnership, i think it is important that we recognise who our dialogue is with; often it is government-to-government. but, if you speak to the entrepreneurs – the wealth creators – in many of the african countries, they are the ones who are saying to us: ‘help us to help our governments open up markets so that we can have access to the goods and services that you take for granted in the west’. only by helping the entrepreneurs can we really help to create wealth and pull the continent out of poverty. let us not forget: it is the wealth creators who are the key to development and not necessarily the aid organisations only.
mr president, i abstained – along with the british conservative delegation – on the lambsdorff report on the priorities for the un general assembly 64th session. my party strongly supports the work of the un, although accepting it is an imperfect organisation in need of reform. however, there were a number of issues mentioned in this report where british conservatives disagree strongly, such as the role of the icc and the abolition of the security council permanent seats of the uk and france, to be replaced by a single permanent seat for the european union. we also believe the application of the death penalty on adults is an issue for an individual member’s conscience and we do not have a party political line on this. so we abstained overall.
mr president, i want to congratulate my colleague mr hutchinson on the excellent report he has written on a very important subject. the commission and the european union give a vast quantity of money to developing countries, the majority of which to africa. about 50% of africans still live on less than usd 1 a day and 75% of aid victims all over the world come from africa. given these appalling statistics it is right that we should give support to africa, to provide clean drinking water and allow the african population to develop sustainably. however, when we give money to african governments, as the commission now does under something called ‘budgetary support’, we should also insist that budgetary support given to african countries be scrutinised by their own parliaments in a very rigorous way and that the financial agreements signed between the commission and the african nations are open to public scrutiny and transparency in the national parliaments of african countries and the acp countries. this is a very important point to make in order to safeguard european taxpayers’ money.
mr president, all of us in this chamber are in favour of the arts and of promoting the arts and education in our respective countries. i hope that nobody would argue against that. however, the problem with this report is that, once again, it is calling for an eu perspective, and that is not appropriate. the diversity of the european union is that all the different nation states have different cultures, different histories and different backgrounds, and it therefore seems to me important that arts and education should be a matter for determination at national level. this is not an area for interference by the european union or the european parliament. ‘let a thousand flowers bloom’ was, i think, the great phrase. well, let 27 flowers – at least – bloom in the european union, but let them bloom separately. i believe that, if we do that, they will flourish far better and live far longer.
mr president, when i saw the title of this report –‘active dialogue with citizens on europe’ – i thought it was a bit of a joke, because the fact of the matter is if only we had active dialogue with the citizens of europe. the point about dialogue is that it is not a monologue: you have to listen to what the citizens of europe say. the citizens of europe in the netherlands, in france and in the republic of ireland have said very clearly, in relation to the lisbon treaty, that they do not want that treaty. if, therefore, this parliament and all the european institutions want to have dialogue with their citizens, which is a good idea, let them proclaim without any equivocation that it is dialogue which they will respond to, and that they will listen to what the citizens say. it is an utter waste of time this parliament even debating or reporting or voting on the idea of dialogue if collectively – and that is the truth about this parliament – it refuses to acknowledge what is said to it and refuses to respond to it. that is its failure.
mr president, during this economic crisis something very odd happened on the way to the forum, as they used to say. the people of europe did not look to the european union to save them from the economic crisis. they looked to their member states and their national governments to save them from the economic crisis. the man who claims to have saved the world is about to come here in a couple of hours’ time but, leaving that aside, it is to the national governments – in paris or london or washington or rome – that the citizens of those countries (who also happen to be told that they are citizens of europe) look to save them, not this larger entity called the eu. may i ask why that happened? may i ask those who bang on about the eu being this magnificent machine to ask themselves that question? i can give you the answer. the answer is that there is no demos, there is no connection between the eu institutions and the people. the people still look to their national governments to save them.
mr president, this report is about active dialogue with citizens, and the best kind of active dialogue with european citizens is one based on listening to what they say in democratic votes. there is a great irony in this parliament adopting this report whilst, at the same time, completely ignoring some of the democratic decisions that have been taken in member states. no wonder the european union is so unpopular in my constituency of north-east england and elsewhere in europe. its idea of democratic dialogue is only one way: the eu does not listen to what people have to say and only tells them what they can think and how they can vote. looking back over the past 10 years, france, the netherlands and now ireland – twice – have all voted to put the brakes on greater european integration, and yet the eu has completely ignored their opinions. by seeking to listen only to those eu-funded ngos, how can that be reflective of popular voter opinion? the best kind of dialogue with citizens is to listen to what they say in free democratic votes and referendums.
mr president, i do think there is a misconception when we talk about active dialogue with citizens on europe, because we often confuse dialogue with citizens with dialogue with civil society. we often confuse dialogue with citizens with dialogue with organisations either wholly or partly funded by the commission. in effect, we have eu institutions talking to organisations funded by the commission, which, in the end, means by taxpayers’ money. so, when we actually give citizens the right to have their say – as we did on the constitution in france and the netherlands and on the lisbon treaty in ireland – and they say ‘no’, what do we do? we completely ignore the result of the vote! when the people have said ‘no’, dialogue does not mean making them vote again and again and again until you get the result you want. that is not dialogue. that is an abdication of democracy. it is time that we genuinely engaged in active dialogue with citizens.
mr president, after five years in this house, there is little in reports that can surprise one. but i do have to say that i was staggered by the sheer arrogance of aspects of this report and the calculated insult to those who dare not to roll over in sycophantic endorsement of the european project. to say in this report –as it does – that the less educated are more likely to oppose further european integration is an audacious insult and arrogance of unbelievable proportions. the truth is that those who bothered to read the eu constitution or the lisbon treaty and educate themselves about it are exactly the people more likely to vote against. those more likely to vote for it are those – like commissioners – who never even bothered to read the documents and simply accept the propaganda. so i do reject the insult of this report. could i also say, in response to mr mitchell’s first outburst – his republican outburst about getting rid of all the british out of the island of ireland over 700 years – that he should be glad they did not entirely succeed because he did need the help of some british subjects from northern ireland to attain the rugby victory in the six nations.
mr president, i voted for this reluctantly, not because of the nonsense that has just come from the other side of the house, but because i share the concerns of the rapporteur, mr hegyi. this report has been really watered down by those in this house who do not want to have active dialogue with the citizens of europe. for me, active dialogue does not mean glossy brochures, and i do believe that the commission has failed in this area. it has failed to actively engage and connect with the citizens. it has failed to get across a greater understanding of how the work that is being done at eu level is addressing many of the real issues that affect citizens’ everyday lives. i hope that, as a result of this report, it will revisit it and come up with some more imaginative ways of addressing this issue.
mr president, i welcome this report because it raises issues that need discussion. i particularly endorse the sentiments of the rapporteur that rural development measures should not drain resources intended for direct payments to farmers. hence i join in questioning whether rural development funding should be linked to the common agricultural policy at all, as this inevitably leads to depriving farmers of previous methods of funding. whereas, if it were instead an inherent part of cohesion funding, there would not be that opportunity to poach farming funds. thus i welcome the declaration in the report that the population employed in agriculture should be the main focus of support measures under rural development policy. that balance has been distorted in many rural development programmes, including those affecting my region of northern ireland.
mr president, i welcome this particular report because the testing of cosmetics is an issue that concerns many of the constituents in my region, west midlands, and i have received a lot of correspondence on this issue. i welcome this report and supported it because it establishes pan-european standards on the use of potentially harmful materials and sets standards for testing claims that cosmetics manufacturers make, but we need similar standards set for claims about animal testing. last time we looked at this report we dealt with the testing on animals for scientific purposes. we now have an important tool in increasing customer awareness of what goes into cosmetics, which would only be enhanced by a focus on animal testing.
mr president, it seems that many on the other side are using the explanation-of-vote procedure on various reports to talk instead about the ratification of the lisbon treaty. in that, they are making unfounded claims that the people have spoken against the lisbon treaty and that we do not want to listen to them. quite apart from the fact that it is up to member states – not us – to ratify the lisbon treaty, this is of course totally wrong. one member state has said ‘no’, we are listening and indeed we have to listen. the other member states have indicated they are willing to listen to the reasons for that ‘no’, to take account of it and to move forward on that basis. but when mr dover does not even appreciate the difference between the constitutional treaty and the lisbon treaty and says that france and the netherlands rejected this treaty, he conveniently forgets to point out those countries that had referendums to support the treaty. we do not just want to listen to one side of the argument. we want to listen to both sides and bridge the gap, find a solution acceptable to every member state. they only want to listen to those people who vote ‘no’. it is they who are guilty of not listening to the peoples of europe. it is they who do not accept democratic results, only the result that is convenient to them and not the overall situation of all member states.
mr president, let me begin my thanking you and all the interpreters for your patience during this very long set of explanations of vote. i think there is consensus across parliament on the merits of microcredit: it is one of those issues that left and right in parliament can agree on. at this stage, let me pay tribute to two organisations in particular. one is opportunity international, which is headed by a former central bank governor of an african country and brings a professional approach to microcredit where sometimes that has been sadly lacking. the other is an organisation and its excellent website – www.kiva.org – which allows people to lend as little as usd 25 individually and is aggregated up to larger microloans to entrepreneurs across the world, particularly in developing countries, allowing them to create wealth and jobs in their local communities. the one point i would like to make is that we must make sure that local, national or eu government does not crowd out the small community-led and private microcredit providers. i have cases of that in my constituency in london where community-led organisations have been crowded out by local government. on the whole, however, i think we can agree that microcredit is a great thing to help entrepreneurs in poorer countries.
in writing. − while i welcome the bulk of mr lambsdorff’s report on eu priorities for the 64th session of the united nations general assembly, i have a problem with his call at this stage for a single european union seat on the un security council. i am in favour of a reform of the security council to recognise the new global political realities – japan, germany, india and brazil can make good cases for membership and it would be invidious to exclude representation from africa. but support, or not, for a single eu seat should come at the end of a negotiating process – even if it has a logic – not at the beginning. on that basis i felt it appropriate to abstain on this report.
in writing. − president, i abstained on this report as i believe the un is in urgent need of review and reform. there is little point in considering a security council seat for the eu if the whole system of representation is in question. in particular, where is the security council representation for asia? at present, that continent is represented only by china, a non-democratic country with an appalling record on human rights. where is the call for a seat for india, whose population is fast approaching that of china’s and whose political, economic and strategic power is regionally and globally significant? before thinking about the eu’s voice at the un, we need to consider how the current un might be changed for the better. proper security council representation for the world’s biggest democracy would represent a big step in the right direction.
in writing. − labour euro mps fully support the work of the un general assembly and the positive role it has to play in peaceful and positive international cooperation. in particular, we support within this resolution the focus on increased positive cooperation on human rights, positive un reform, nuclear non-proliferation and delivering on the millennium development goals. we voted to abstain on this resolution, as although we support many of the points contained within, we could not support a call within the resolution for there to be a single un security council for the european union. there is no provision in the un charter for a regional seat on the security council. europe is not a un member state and, according to the un charter, only states can be members of the un.
in writing. − while i support efforts towards a co-ordinated position in the un among the western democracies, and have long argued the case for institutional reform of un structures, i do not accept that the eu should act on our behalf. under no circumstances should individual members of the un, still less members of the security council, allow eu usurpation of their right to put their own view forward. i reject the objective of "an eu seat in the security council". as a matter of principle therefore - and without in any way rejecting un initiatives such as the millennium development goals, or the 'right to protect' concept - i abstained on the report.
in writing. − i support this report which looks at the effectiveness of the eu-africa partnership. the report notes that very little new funding has been made available to implement the joint strategy and calls for the creation of a specific financial instrument, centralising all existing sources of funding in a clear, predictable and programmable way.
in writing. − good governance is central to economic progress and well-being in africa and should be the first priority. it is a pity that this report gives it such scant attention and deals with it in terms which show excessive sensitivity to african regimes. there is no mention of the fact that most african governments have been tacitly or openly supportive of the mugabe regime in zimbabwe, with all the devastation that that regime has inflicted on the people of zimbabwe. and we should not be trying to impose the template of the eu’s institutional structure on another continent without reflection on the appropriateness of such a structure for europe, let alone africa.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which aims to create millennium development goal contracts between the eu and certain countries. i support the financial transparency which the report recommends and the stability that contractual aid will provide for partner countries to better plan budgets in advance.
in writing. − whilst i agree with taxation on tobacco, and a minimum tax across europe, i abstained because of the damage it could do to the british tax on tobacco. the government enjoys freedom to increase taxation on tobacco, which can be an incentive for people to reduce and quit smoking, improving our health and decreasing the stress on the nhs. this report would have compromised and constrained the government’s ability to tax tobacco, which is why i abstained.
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party agrees that levels of duty set too low encourage cross-border arbitrage and lead to uncontrolled/unlicensed reselling of manufactured tobacco. the minimum levels of duty-setting are, therefore, a very useful instrument to effect the changes necessary to begin to change this. some european countries may wish to go further than the minimum levels for justified scientific and social reasons, and this is proper too.
in writing. − it is hard to think of anything more horrific and primitive than female genital mutilation. unfortunately this barbaric practice has manifested itself within the eu due to the steady stream of immigration from countries where it is carried out regularly. the muscardini report rightly sets out our abhorrence at this brutality in our midst and suggests ways to ensure that our values of equality and freedom are translated into concrete action against female genital mutilation. notwithstanding the european union’s commitment to multiculturalism, we need to make sure that the relentless tide of political correctness emanating from eu legislation does not impinge upon our determination to stamp out this vile practice. there are, of course, limits to what we can do to prevent female genital mutilation in third countries. however, we must be prepared to link trade and aid relationships to improvements in human rights, and in particular to the outlawing of this repellent crime against women.
in writing. − the european union spends colossal sums of taxpayers’ money every year in the name of multilingualism. for an organization that seeks to erode the differences between nations and peoples, the eu attaches a great deal of importance to linguistic nationalism. one such example of this is the concession to irish nationalists of making gaelic one of the official languages of the eu. the costs and bureaucracy associated with the misguided policy of multilingualism will only increase as the eu expands further. my constituents are rightly concerned about what they see as the indiscriminate use of public money to satisfy a policy that has little practical use beyond political window-dressing. despite the fact that english has become the common language in the european parliament, i would hesitate to make it the single working language. given the eu’s enthusiasm for harmonization, i believe that a common language is a natural step on the road to a federal superstate. i therefore believe that we should have a handful of working languages. if the un can manage with six languages for 200 or so member states, i’m sure the eu can cut back too.
in writing. − multilingualism is a great asset of the european parliament. as the only parliament in the world which has simultaneous translation in 23 different languages, we should do everything we can to retain this unique aspect of our work. all eu citizens should be able to read about the work of the eu institutions in their own language, and member states should do all that they can to provide the opportunity for all eu citizens to be able to speak other eu languages.
in writing. − the concept of territorial cohesion is now recognised as a key objective of the union alongside social and economic cohesion. territorial cohesion is essentially about achieving balanced development across the eu and in this context it should constitute a central objective of all community policies. this report highlights the fact that territorial cohesion will be especially relevant for geographically disadvantaged areas such as mountainous regions and islands. the commission now needs to proceed with a legislative package which outlines concrete provisions and policy actions concerning territorial cohesion, in order to achieve it.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur that we need to define the principle of territorial cohesion more clearly.
in writing. − i support this report and would use this opportunity to reinforce the view that there has to be an integrated approach to cohesion policy. this integration, however, should be an instrument for delivering benefits not a measure that could be restrictive, and this element needs to be carefully monitored. urban cohesion is essential in delivering sustainable economic and social progress. in that regard i would highlight the role of transport and the provision of modern transport infrastructure as essential in delivering cohesion policy in the urban areas.
in writing. − the urban dimension of cohesion policy needs to be given a greater priority.
in writing. − it is necessary to monitor the implementation of the structural funds regulation 2007-2013 closely in order to ensure proper use of taxpayers’ money and to enable us to evaluate properly for programmes post 2013.
in writing. − until now the success of microcredit systems in relieving poverty in developing countries has up to now not been translated into the eu context. i support this report because success of a european initiative on microcredit could contribute substantially to the achievement of the objectives of the revised lisbon strategy, since small enterprises are an essential source of growth, employment, entrepreneurial skills, innovation and cohesion in the eu.
in writing. − microcredit schemes can help many of the world’s poorest out of absolute poverty, in particular women. the eu institutions and member states should do more to support such schemes.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i welcome the prime minister on this, the first leg, of the ‘brown g20 world tour’. you have sketched a big agenda for the g20, prime minister, from combating world poverty to nuclear disarmament, to peace in the middle east, and i wish you success. my group congratulates you and your colleagues in the european council for mapping out the contours of a common approach, albeit on a more limited agenda, to the summit next week. opportunities to work with the obama administration should not be spoilt by a transatlantic war of words. i know we share that view, but america retains its affection for skeletal regulation, and the reality of this recession shows that those who wilfully ignored bad practice are now suffering most. we need a european financial services authority. by all means press others to support the same standards, but caution from them cannot condone inaction from us. as you say, we need to lock honesty, transparency and the rule of law into the financial system. reform of global financial institutions is necessary too, to stop current account surpluses and excess liquidity fuelling global boom and bust. we need the imf to fill that role. can it assemble more assets with increased access to crisis funds? should it become a real asset manager for parts of the global savings pool, second-guessing speculators, preventing panic, stabilising markets? how can we reform its decision-making structures to reflect the demand for more democratic oversight and the power of emerging economies? it is crucial too, despite the pain of recession, to confront the challenge of climate change and the problems posed by poverty. prime minister, you spoke about the need for action, so will you give the imf and the world bank an explicit mandate to tackle the drought, flooding and disease that accompany global warming in the developing world? will you make sure they grant, lend and plan not just for market success, but to achieve social progress and green goals too? we need a new and sustainable economy enshrined in a global social contract. the era of easy money is past. for future growth, making a living must not equate to making a killing. but to achieve these things europe must marshal consensus, and the uk must be part of it. prime minister, you and i carry different colours from the political pallet, but as fellows scots with a burning belief in progressive politics, i know that we both understand burns when he wrote: ‘oh would some power the gift to give us, to see ourselves as others see us’. and those parties pushing themselves and britain to the sidelines of europe will cost their country dear. so let britain be a positive partner, cast in the european mould. prime minister, i expect the single currency to emerge stronger from this crisis. in the chill winds of recession, investors have sheltered under the euro’s wing. you designed five byzantine tests that prevented british entry these past 10 years. will you now work to bring the united kingdom into the euro in the post-recession period? the uk should not stand back to the wall while others take to the floor. this is a dance that britain should join. (loud applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the prime minister has received some criticism this afternoon for his comment ‘british jobs for british workers’, but you can brush that aside, because from the moment he said it i do not think anybody seriously thought that he would ever, as a british prime minister, put the interests of british workers above that of his european dream. my goodness me, you showed that this afternoon, prime minister. it is just a pity that, apart from ukip, virtually nobody seems to have bothered to turn up to listen to you. you are very popular here. you are very popular indeed because within a few days of the irish saying ‘no’ to the lisbon treaty, you had rammed that treaty through the british parliament, breaking a specific manifesto pledge that you would give the british people a referendum on the constitutional treaty. shame on you, prime minister, for doing that. you have devalued democracy in our country; you have devalued the trust that voters put in you as a british prime minister. of course, we know the reason why. the reason why is that we would have voted ‘no’. you said in your speech that none but those on the extremes oppose european union. well, that may be right amongst professional career politicians, but a clear majority of the british people want us to have friendship and free trade with the european union, but do not want to be members of this political union. you cannot continue to build this european union against public opinion. if you do it against the will of the people, you are storing up enormous social and political problems for the future. please let the peoples of europe decide their destiny. do not have it done in parliaments like this and parliaments like westminster. it will not work! as far as the economy is concerned, you have told us that somehow you are the economic guru; you are the man who can save the world. well, i remember very well your first big act as chancellor when you sold 400 metric tonnes of gold on the world’s exchanges at usd 275 an ounce. at today’s valuation, that would be usd 10 billion higher. it was not just the fact that you got it wrong, because we can all get it wrong. it was the fact that you announced in advance how much you were going to sell and on what day you were going to sell it. it was an error so basic that the average a-level economics student – even in these educationally devalued times – would not have done this. to add to that, you have destroyed our private pension system, and you took away from the bank of england its ability to regulate the banks and gave it to the ‘tick-box’ bureaucrats of the fsa in canary wharf. we have not heard an apology. your government has apologised for the amritsar massacre; you have apologised for slavery; you have apologised for virtually everything. will you please apologise for what you did as british chancellor, and then perhaps we might just listen to you?
mr president, i see that the prime minister has already mastered the essential craft of the european politician; namely the ability to say one thing in this chamber and a very different thing to your home electorate. prime minister, you have spoken here about free trade, and ‘amen’ to that. who would have guessed listening to you just now that you were the author of the phrase ‘british jobs for british workers’, and that you have subsidised – where you have not nationalised outright – swathes of our economy, including the car industry and many of the banks? perhaps you would have more moral authority in this house if your actions matched your words. perhaps you would have more legitimacy in the councils of the world if the united kingdom were not going into this recession in the worst condition of any g20 country. the truth is that you have run out of our money. the country as a whole is now in negative equity. every british child is born owing around gbp 20 000. servicing the interest on that debt is going to cost more than educating the child. once again today you try to spread the blame around. you spoke about an international recession, international crisis. it is true that we are all sailing together into the squalls, but not every vessel in the convoy is in the same dilapidated condition. other ships used the good years to caulk their hulls and clear their rigging – in other words, to pay off debt – but you used the good years to raise borrowing yet further. as a consequence, under your captaincy, our hull is pressed deep into the waterline under the accumulated weight of your debt. we are now running a deficit that touches 10% of gdp – an almost unbelievable figure. more than pakistan and more than hungary – countries which have already called in the imf. the issue is not that you are not apologising. like everyone else, i have long accepted that you are pathologically incapable of accepting responsibility for these things. it is that you are carrying on wilfully, worsening our situation, wantonly spending what little we have left. in the last 12 months, 100 000 private-sector jobs have been lost, and yet you have created 30 000 public-sector jobs. prime minister, you cannot carry on for ever squeezing the productive bit of the economy in order to fund an unprecedented engorgement of the unproductive bit. you cannot spend your way out of recession or borrow your way out of debt, and when you repeat in that wooden and perfunctory way that our situation is better than others, that we are well placed to weather the storm, i have to say you sound like a brezhnev-era apparatchik giving the party line. you know, and we know, and you know that we know it is nonsense. everyone knows that britain is worse off than any other country as we go into these hard times. the imf has said so. the european commission has said so. the markets have said so, which is why our currency has devalued by 30%, and soon the voters, too, will get their chance to say so. they can see what the markets have already seen – that you are the devalued prime minister of a devalued government.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, what worries me most is the suggestion that the european investment bank (eib) has a significant role to play in solving the financial crisis – that it can somehow act as the europe-wide body to provide stimulus where member states have singularly failed to coordinate their own stimuli. the danger is that, if it expands its activities too far into supporting commercial banks and governments – as has been suggested – then its enviable high credit rating may be downgraded, like some of our governments. the eib has a leverage of about 35 times, and its shareholders are member state governments. it would be a serious issue if it were to go bust, like some of our commercial banks. the report even encourages the eib and the commission to increase lending by experimenting with new innovative financial instruments. i thought the world had seen enough of clever financial tricks.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, out of this budget review, we simply have to ask ourselves one question: does the budget reflect the political priorities of the 21st century? if it does not, it needs changing. is it flexible enough to reflect changing times? because one of my frustrations at the moment with the budget is how we deal with negative priorities. too much is left in the budget because we cannot change things because of the restrictions of the mff. if i could turn to activity-based budgeting and management, i think the commission has made huge progress on this but i would warn against over-bureaucratising this exercise because what we want to ensure is a qualitative evaluation, not simply ticking boxes. we do not want people spending all their time evaluating themselves when they should be getting on and doing some work. so we have got to be careful about that. i personally think the annual policy strategy would be better if it was every two years or every two and a half years to fit in with the parliamentary cycle. this would allow us to get a much clearer idea of our policy perspectives on top of the commission’s annual work programmes.
mr president, on behalf of the 350 ford workers being made redundant at warley and dunton in essex, and on behalf of the 1 400 general motors workers at ibc vans in luton – double if you count suppliers – i want to welcome tonight’s announcements that these car manufacturers will not be allowed to go down. however, when commissioner verheugen says that general motors must not follow a ‘beggar my neighbour’ policy, can he join with me in asking them four questions: firstly, to fully disclose their restructuring plans, not simply to the german government but to the british and other member state governments too; to complete a full environmental impact statement on the carbon impact of the eur 3.3 billion package they propose; to bring clarity to the future of their joint venture with the french company renault for van production in luton, in particular; and to outline to you and to us what guarantees exist that a subsidy in the short term will secure production and employment which are genuinely sustainable? last week i met the luton workers, one of whom told me that ibc’s chances of survival are just 50/50, in a town which has had vehicle production for more than 80 years, and where 50% of jobs are still in manufacturing. i will fight for the future of their jobs.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 25 march 2009). written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulations (ec) no 549/2004, (ec) no 550/2004, (ec) no 551/2004 and (ec) no 552/2004 in order to improve the performance and sustainability of the european aviation system (com(2008)0388 - c6-0250/2008 - 2008/0127(cod)) (a6-0002/2009), and– the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 216/2008 in the field of aerodromes, air traffic management and air navigation services and repealing council directive 2006/23/eec (com(2008)0390 - c6-0251/2008 - 2008/0128(cod)) (a6-0515/2008).
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, in this building there is an insatiable demand for power and control – levels of control which previously only the ussr would have dreamt of. eu controls that kill innovation and eu power to distort market demand, flying in the face of what the voters expect. now even the sky is not the limit. under the excuse of efficiency, the eu – one of the most inefficient bureaucracies in the world – wants to control efficiency in the sky. the eu seeks to put obstacles in the way of innovation from free-marketeers such as easyjet and ryanair because they please the public, and we know how the eu ignores the public. the eu wants a functional air space block system coordinator: a fancy title for a dictator ruling over air traffic control, airports and also industry. this is the same kind of over-control that eventually sent the ussr into oblivion, but all for the sake of flying whose flag? this is all about eu flag-waving. it is not to satisfy the public and has nothing to do with demand. success depends on efficiency and meeting demand as can only be achieved in the free market – not by damaging eu controls, not with eu lack of understanding and not with eu lack of expertise as displayed in this building. let us resurrect efficiency by allowing the supply to feed the demand and allowing innovation. this is not the business of the eu. please vote against.
madam president, mr tajani said at the beginning of the debate that this sends a good signal to europe’s citizens. i agree, and that is the purpose of our work. i want to refer particularly to aerodromes because it is important that we bring these establishments under the umbrella of sensible european legislation. i think it is sensible, as it is protecting the citizen, and we do so by extending easa’s remit. there are, however, a few areas where i would seek a little bit of clarification. i think it is correct that we eliminate small aerodromes just serving the recreational or leisure aspects of flying and take them outside the scope. amendment 44 tabled by mr marinescu and others is important, because it changes the basis from the weight of the aircraft to the runway length of 800 m. i wonder, however, if the commissioner or mr marinescu could, when summing up, give me an assurance that the definition of ‘open to public use’ is properly explained so that there is no ambiguity as to the actual definition of public use. could they explain whether it means commercially viable, whether it means people buying tickets for flights, or whether it means ones to which the public can actually get access? that could be a future stumbling block which i hope could be cleared up.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 25 march 2009). written statements (rule 142)
rapporteur. − madam president, this commission proposal, on which i am parliament’s rapporteur, is the fourth element of the visa information system (vis) package, coming after the vis regulation, the vis access decision and the measure on the use of the vis under the schengen borders code. in modifying the existing common consular instructions, it provides firstly for the obligation to supply biometrics which will be stored in the vis and the standards for doing so, but secondly it includes provisions on the organisation of receiving visa applications. a complete revision of the visa rules is foreseen with the visa code on which my alde group colleague, henrik lax, is rapporteur. once adopted, this piece of legislation which we are now discussing will become an integral part of the visa code. the underlying rationale for separating the proposals was that the commission expected the adoption of the visa code to take longer than the present proposal, and they did not want the adoption of the visa code to hold up the launch of the vis. it is my understanding that the central system for the vis will be ready by december this year and could start operating in the first region, north africa, in early 2010. i have been negotiating with the council for quite a long time. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs adopted my report in november 2007. unfortunately we could not get a first-reading agreement, so in july 2008 i asked parliament to endorse my report; however, during the french presidency we were able to make sufficient progress for me to be able to recommend adopting this compromise at second reading. we had four outstanding issues: the age limit for fingerprinting; encouraging member states to cooperate while permitting contracts with external providers as a last resort; data protection and security; and a service fee for external providers. on fingerprinting the commission proposed to start fingerprinting children at six years old. in fact fingerprints of young children are subject to rapid change, and i have not been persuaded that enough is yet known about the reliability in later years of prints taken so young. despite many requests, i was never provided with credible substantive evidence about how fingerprints taken between six and twelve years of age could be the basis for verification or identification many years later without the risk of mistakes. the council’s reaction at one stage was to propose fingerprinting young children every two years instead of five years, as is the case with adults, but that would be hugely inconvenient for families. so i insisted on a prudent and practical approach, taking a higher minimum age of twelve years, and the council did agree to exempt children under twelve, with a review of this age limit after three years following a detailed study under the responsibility of the commission. i now turn to the issue of encouraging member state cooperation while permitting external providers. i do not have any problems with the general concept of outsourcing, but there must be secure conditions to ensure the integrity of the visa-issuing process, to ensure that outsourcing is only a last resort and that data protection and security are guaranteed. we therefore succeeded in writing into the text a hierarchy whereby cooperation by means of limited representation, co-location or common application centres is the first choice, and only where those solutions are not appropriate to cope with a high number of applicants or secure a good geographical coverage does outsourcing come into play. the compromise makes clear that member states remain responsible for compliance with data protection rules and for any breaches of national law. an important element is that, in third states that prohibit encryption, special rules apply: electronic transfer of data between consulates or between an external service provider and the member state would be banned, and member states would have to ensure that the electronic data is transferred physically in fully encrypted form on a cd which has special conditions attached to it. lastly, on the visa fee, we have successfully insisted, as a condition for the external provider’s imposing a service fee on top of the visa fee, that visa applicants should always have the possibility of direct access to the consulate offices. i think that is very important. overall we have a reasonable deal. compromises were hard-fought, and i think we have made a step forward on the common visa policy.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, it comes as no surprise to hear baroness ludford of the euro-fanatic liberal democrat party wanting to harmonise yet another area of what should be sovereign national policy. why on earth would any eu member state want a common system for the application and processing of visas for third-party nationals? deciding who can and cannot enter a nation state should be the sole concern of the nation state – except that, in the minds of the euro-fanatics, european nation states no longer exist, having been replaced by the great eu borderless state. since 1997, about 6 million migrants have entered the uk. about 4 million have left, leaving a net population increase of over 2 million. the current immigration rate to britain now results in a net population gain of over 200 000 people per year – or a net population gain of over 1 million people every five years. this is equivalent to a new city the size of birmingham. most of these migrants enter legally, because they are eu citizens. in addition to that, we probably have one million illegal immigrants. england is one of the most densely populated countries in the world – more densely populated than india, china or japan. on current trends, our population of 61 million is set to rise to 75 million by 2051, and is projected to rise to 85 million by 2081. what we need is to leave the european union and regain control of our borders. having done that, we need to decide which countries’ citizens we allow in, with or without a visa. there are many member states in the eu whose citizens should not be allowed into britain without a visa. what britain needs is a strict visa system so that we can decide who we allow into our country and who we do not. what we do not need is a system devised by the european union. i expect that its advocates would justify it as merely introducing common criteria and processes to make everything run more smoothly. however, it might have some unintended consequences. look at another example of eu legislation championed by the liberal democrats. the european arrest warrant means that british citizens accused of a crime by other eu member states cannot now be protected by british courts or even the home secretary, even when it is obvious that a grave injustice is being done. any corrupt legal system may now demand the surrender of a british citizen, and we have to comply. we have surrendered the right to protect our own citizens. soon we will have trials in absentia and the common recognition of fines and confiscation orders. all this was voted for and welcomed by the liberal democrats. these measures overturn the most basic freedoms enjoyed by the english for centuries, as enshrined in magna carta and the 1689 bill of rights. this afternoon, graham watson, leader of the liberal democrats, urged gordon brown to take britain into the european single currency, which is something that anyone in touch with the real world would know is economic suicide. now the liberal democrat fanatics want us to embrace a common system for the application of visas. when the london voters become aware of baroness ludford’s position on these issues, hopefully they will grant her a one-way visa out of the european parliament in the european elections on 4 june 2009.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs who have worked with me. i have been ‘mrs vis’ for over four years and, together with the shadows, we have formed quite a close club and i will miss you all. i will particularly miss you, if i may say so, madam president, as we may not see each other after june. we have been an all-female club, which has been delightful, but i would also like to thank all the staff involved, who have not all been female. they have been excellent. i respect the positions of ms kaufmann and ms ždanoka. i understand their positions and i thank them very much for taking a full part in the negotiations and in the discussions even though, as they pointed out, they cannot support the outcome. i am very sad that mr coelho is not able to support this compromise. i hope he understands how hard i fought for some of the elements that he also wanted. after all they were in my original report. if he thinks i could have achieved more, that might cause some spluttering in the council and commission because i think they saw me as quite a tough customer to deal with. mr batten has left the chamber. i think that was part of the ukip election campaign. as mrs ţicău pointed out, the uk is not party to the visa information system as the country is not in schengen, so the uk has full control of its own borders. i think mr batten, as usual, was somewhat muddled in his thinking. i thank all the other speakers who made constructive contributions. i am glad that we are putting this to bed as i personally feel that i wish to resign from being ‘mrs vis’ after this.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, this is a complicated dossier on which there are many differing views, so i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for going along with some views in the spirit of compromise, when she may have personally preferred otherwise. there is, however, general recognition amongst all political groups that there needs to be clear regulation for novel foods, both to protect the consumer and give legal certainty to producers. i would now like to thank the commissioner for not just her work but her introduction, making it so very clear that the aim is to simplify and streamline this whole process. indeed, one of the important principles for our group is that such regulation should help to facilitate the development of such foods and not put so many restrictions in the way that they never see the light of day. for this reason we have asked for a roll-call vote on amendment 30 to confirm support for this key objective. we also believe that any regulation should be proportionate and practical. for this reason we are against the suggestion that any product made with the aid of nanomaterials should have this separately stated on the label. we are also against the suggestion that a novel food cannot be approved if ‘it has a negative impact on the environment after being consumed or becoming waste’. that may sound reasonable, but who is to establish such a fact and based upon what evidence? would not some existing products also be banned under such an edict? we agree with the need for the commission to present a legislative proposal on cloning. we also agree with the need to strengthen data protection for a certain period. we are grateful that a number of our amendments have been accepted in committee and hope that those of our amendments which narrowly lost in committee will finally be passed in the full plenary tomorrow. but i can confirm that, as a sign of our general support, we will propose to vote in favour of the report at the end and to get the show on the road.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, for all the real suffering there is a light-hearted definition of recession. it is when you go to your bank machine to withdraw money and a sign flashes saying: ‘insufficient funds available’– and you are not sure if it means yours or theirs! (laughter) for all the dark warnings about splits and strife, this european council has produced a positive package and i congratulate the czech presidency on that achievement. we have a pledge of more money from the imf, a promise of more support for europe’s most troubled economies and an agreement on moving ahead with european supervision of the financial system. all these are welcome. and i was particularly pleased to see that the council has saved mr barroso’s bacon by transferring five billion unspent euros into the recovery plan. investment in transport, infrastructure and broadband connections will create jobs now and prepare europe for the future. meanwhile, money going to the nabucco pipeline will ease our troubling energy reliance on russia. we need a clear assurance from the president-in-office that funds from the eur 5 billion will actually reach that project, but also that investment in gas supply infrastructure will not be a substitute for renewables research. green growth remains essential for our citizens’ security now and in the future, and so do the principles embodied in the lisbon strategy: flexicurity, the knowledge-based economy, employment regulations that are fit for purpose – these are key to a competitive economy and a successful single market. it is to the council’s great credit that the protectionist language of the past cast no shadow over its conclusions. but for all the apparent agreement, a niggling nuance remains over member states’ priorities. on the one hand, we have those who focus on robust regulation at international level, and on the other, those who lay stress on a strong stimulus package. this is a false choice. of course we need supervisory structures with real regulatory bite, but so too do we need counter-cyclical measures to deal with the realities of recession. the long term and the short term: both must be addressed. our leaders must be clear about that at the g20 summit. if we cannot agree on our common cause then we cannot hope to punch at our collective weight. america will come to the g20 with her own agenda. we must arrive with ours and together reach a deal that delivers for all. president-in-office, last week at the council you barely discussed the legal basis on which the next commission will be formed, but it is no longer only ireland which is unlikely to ratify lisbon. i therefore urge you to convene the leaders of council, commission and parliament before this house rises in may to agree on how to compose parliament and commission with legal certainty. there is a moment, president-in-office, in the famed melody in smetana’s má vlast, where cello and bassoon rise in crescendo from lugubrious depths to reach a seemingly impossible high note. that moment has passed for your government. for europe it is yet to come. see to it that domestic difficulties do not sap your stride. (applause)
mr president, i want to express my support for the impressive way in which the czech presidency has dealt with some of the crucial issues facing europe. from the economic and financial crisis to energy security and climate change, the presidency has been steadfast and clear in its objectives and it has offered europe clear leadership in testing times. in particular, prime minister topolánek has demonstrated clear leadership, above all in warning of the dangers of protectionism. when others flirted with erecting damaging barriers to trade, the czech presidency has spoken clearly and consistently for open trade and, crucially, for the vital need to uphold the single market. earlier this month mr topolánek said that protectionism is always harmful and, in the case of the eu, it is illogical. we must learn a lesson from the crisis and say ‘no’ to isolation, ‘no’ to protectionism and ‘yes’ to cooperation. he was so right to remind us all of the fundamental principle that underlines the eu. this honesty stands in marked contrast to the disingenuous and self-serving speech delivered by the british prime minister in this chamber yesterday. mr brown’s speech was long on hyperbole but singularly failed to mention the central fact that the united kingdom will, under his leadership, have the longest and deepest recession of any industrialised nation. he ignored his role in putting in place and operating a fundamentally flawed financial regulatory framework. he ignored the enormous debt burden he has placed on the british people. europe needs no lectures from the british government about what must be done to get out of this crisis. europe and the international community now need to move quickly to restore confidence in our financial systems, to ensure a properly functioning banking system in which individuals, mr schulz, and businesses can place their trust and get banks lending again to boost confidence. we must hold firm to the principles of free trade and the single market, and i have every confidence that the presidency will continue to work hard to achieve these vital goals.
mr president, the uk prime minister, gordon brown, wants us to believe that he is now suddenly proud of european union unity and that eu’s countries are stronger together and safer together. he says now that banking regulation must be tightened up, tax havens tackled and the imf reformed. mr brown has not a shred of credibility now. his own record of managing the uk economy is one of negligence and catastrophe. he is an architect of the current economic crisis, not a saviour of the world. he favoured the light-touch regulation that is a direct cause of the problems in banking. the impact of the downturn is, of course, being felt around the world. the devolved government of scotland is doing all that its limited powers make possible to stave off its worst effects, easing the tax burden on business through rates relief, speeding up investment in infrastructure projects, and prioritising training and skills development programmes to help people find work. scotland is rich in energy resources with tremendous potential to develop renewable sources such as offshore wind, wave and tidal power. eu support for development of clean energy generation and distribution will help not just the scottish economy, but will also benefit fellow europeans, contributing to energy security and climate change mitigation. i hope very much that it will not be long before scotland can play an even more active and constructive role in the world as a normal, independent member state of the european union.
mr president, the council’s declaration on the eastern partnership is most welcome. as rapporteur on the eastern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy, i support closer relations with the six countries to the east. the announcement of eur 600 million for the eastern partnership is excellent and i welcome the proposed european neighbourhood and partnership instrument spending on improving eu energy security through better storage facilities for oil and gas and building new pipelines. the council also rightly supports the newly conceived euronest parliamentary assembly, which will encourage the resolution of frozen conflicts, such as the nagorno-karabakh and transnistrian disputes. however, the eastern partnership must not be used to stall the eu membership ambitions of countries manifestly entitled to apply for such status, namely ukraine and moldova. the council has also rightly decided to double the assistance package for financially distressed non-eurozone countries in eastern europe, from eur 25 billion to eur 50 billion. this measure will help stabilise countries like hungary and latvia. however, we must not forget ukraine either, which is suffering severe financial turmoil. a banking collapse in ukraine could have catastrophic contagion consequences in countries elsewhere in eastern europe, and also in italy and austria, whose banks are the most exposed to the ukrainian market. finally, while i fully accept the right of turkey and russia to be observers in euronest, neither country should use this position for its own foreign policy ends. the members of euronest are sovereign states with the right to decide their own euro-atlantic aspirations. the suggestion by russia’s foreign minister, sergei lavrov, that the eastern partnership is a means for the eu to expand its sphere of influence abroad is absurd. such language belongs to the machtpolitik cold war era, not to modern diplomacy. if anyone seeks a sphere of influence, it is russia, as underlined by last summer’s war against georgia and the kremlin’s intermittent political destabilisation of countries such as ukraine and the baltic states.
that is not a point of order.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
thank you for your comments. we will in fact get to where you would like to be by following the voting list and voting on the amendments.
mr guardans cambó, we will take this as a test case. i have to ask those who proposed the amendment if they are in agreement with your addition.
madam president, the answer is ‘yes’.
madam president, to save time the socialists are prepared to accept amendments 8 and 10 as additions, but we will vote against if they are not accepted as additions by the ppe-de group.
the feeling is that the amendment with the addition covers the whole of the text. if you really want to vote on the original text, we can go back, but the general mood seems to be to carry on, i think.
madam president, i am quite happy to carry on. i think it is covered.
we will therefore keep going.
rapporteur. − madam president, i know how attached colleagues are to their lunches – or should that be the other way round, i am not sure – but i want to take just two minutes. on monday evening we had a very important debate on whether or not we can give assent on cariforum. the commission and the council – and it is important that both institutions made these commitments – promised us that, in terms of aid promises, they would deliver on the quality of the aid and in a timely fashion. they assured us that nothing in the epa would affect the caribbean countries’ access to medicines. they assured us that the application of the most-favoured-nation clause would not in any way impact on south-south trade and that the five-year review at the end of the first phase of this epa would be a genuine review that would take into account development objectives. on the basis of these promises – and on the condition, of course, that these are now written into the record of this parliament and that both the council and the commission promise to honour and obey these commitments – i believe that this house, with a massive majority today, can now give assent to the caribbean epa. i would like to thank commissioner ashton for her immense cooperation on this, the flexibility that she has shown, and her commitment. the fact that she is here for this vote says much about her. this vote was scheduled for tuesday. i know she gave up vital commitments to be here today and she has made vital commitments to this parliament. i want to thank the commission for their cooperation, and ask members to vote for assent.
thank you mr markov. in fact i had to inform the house that there is a corrigendum to all language versions of this report deleting the reference to rule 47. what you have stated will therefore be dealt with. as we seem to be in agreement, we can proceed.
we have agreement, so we will continue with the vote.
madam president, defined external frontiers are the essential attribute of nationhood. all sorts of other functions can be devolved to local government, or indeed delegated to international associations, but a state that no longer determines who can cross its borders and settle on its territory is no state at all. euro-federalists – including the author of this report, the good baroness ludford – well understand this point, which is why for the past five years their chief endeavour has to been harmonise justice and home affairs. under the splendidly orwellian, ministry-of-truth-style title, ‘the area of freedom, security and justice’, they have harmonised immigration and asylum, they have created a european public prosecutor, a pan-european magistracy, a single system of criminal justice and even, in europol, a common police force. of course, from their point of view – the view of those who want a single european state – so far, so logical, but i wish they would have the courage and the courtesy to ask the people first and to put the treaty of lisbon to a vote. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
thank you, mr alvaro. i made it clear that i had every intention of giving mr gollnisch the floor, but i wanted to conclude the vote.
madam president, we have just voted to double the capital of the european investment bank. it is worth standing back and asking, ‘what is the european investment bank for?’ in theory it is there to make soft loans available to struggling businesses, but who are, in fact, the recipients? in the 1990s, the single largest beneficiary of eib largesse in the united kingdom was british airways, which is hardly a small firm operating within tight profit margins. i cannot help noting parenthetically that, throughout this period, british airways was also a chief sponsor of the campaign to get britain into the euro. i stand back and ask again: what is the purpose of the european investment bank? i think the answer to that question is that the purpose of the eib is the employment of its own employees. it has become part of the brussels racket, this massive mechanism for taking money from the taxpayer and distributing it to those fortunate enough to be employed within the system. the eu may once have been an idealistic – or at least an ideological – project, but it has long since become a handy way to make a living, which of course is what makes it so wretchedly hard to dislodge.
madam president, it is always a pleasure to be present with you in explanations of votes. people will start to talk soon. the current financial crisis has highlighted the problems of having such a long period for a financial framework. who, a couple of years ago, would have foreseen the extent of the damage caused by the credit crunch and its consequences? i believe that this review gives us in this house a big opportunity and exposes a problem. the problem exposed is one that, actually, we have created. there is now a new industry that has been built in brussels. it is not a manufacturing industry, although it does create some jobs. it is an industry driven by lobbyists and especially ngos. it is quite a sinister trade. it is essentially self-perpetuating. the commission consults ngos on a subject, the ngos call for action, they lobby meps to give political support for this call, the commission eventually runs a programme in the subject area and – yes, you’ve guessed it! – the ngos who told the commission this programme was needed bid to run the programme itself. this was an opportunity wasted because we could have said that we are not going to do this in the future.
madam president, i voted against this report for two reasons. firstly, because of its imprudent and reckless demands for even more funds for wasteful eu expenditure – which for the united kingdom, of course, means demands for an even higher annual net contribution, driving us into further deficit. the second reason i voted against this report is the presumption it makes on the implementation of the lisbon treaty, with no regard to that treaty’s failure to meet the ratification test set for it. moreover, lisbon itself would of course ratchet up expenditure through pursuit of new competences and new ventures, such as lavish waste on the space policies which would come within its ambit and further policies linked to climate change. so for those reasons i voted against this report.
madam president, i welcome this review of the financial framework, although i was disappointed that the amendment calling for a radical reform of the common agricultural policy was defeated in the vote today. i believe there is an urgent need to reform the eu’s financing system, and it is regrettable that many of the funding streams are old and historical commitments with little value added. we do not prioritise new issues which do not have sufficient resources. we urgently need to finance energy and climate-change programmes and invest significantly in green technologies. my biggest concern, however, is for heading 4, which has been chronically underfinanced for many years. whilst the european union aspires to be a major global player, this is totally undermined by the lack of resources to meet those objectives. i am also concerned that there is a policy of outsourcing all external funding programmes. as a result, this has a detrimental impact on the eu’s role as a global player in developing countries. nevertheless, i did support this review.
madam president, before i begin, may i just pay tribute to the previous speaker, jim allister. i may not always agree with his views when they are forcefully put but i have to say that, if i were a northern ireland voter, i would probably say there is no truer friend to northern ireland than jim allister in this house. on the vote in hand and the eu-califorum deal, i think we should recognise that even though there were many concerns over the deal, in terms of the eu being aggressive in trying to open up its markets, at the same time it does set a deadline for liberalisation and it makes many of the caribbean countries recognise that they have to seek to diversify. for far too long they have relied on british and other ex-colonial masters’ guilt to rely on preferential treatment for bananas and sugar. you cannot continue to be so-called ‘dessert economies’ if you are going to compete in a globalised digital world, and i welcome that aspect of the economic partnership agreement.
madam president, i voted in favour of the epas resolution because only through equal partnership can we help other countries experience the benefits of economic progress. i welcome the reassurances received from our new commissioner, cathy ashton, to allay the fears many had about epas. she is to be applauded for finding consensus on this issue. this resolution suggests much to counter the negative provisions of the original text. clauses regarding intellectual property rights will make access to generic medicines easier and safer, and suggestions that countries choose their own rate of development will prevent sudden and damaging liberalisation. europe must also undertake partnership with acp countries, if they do not threaten to impoverish those countries, intellectually, socially or economically. a recent acp mission to guyana demonstrated that trade, if harnessed for good, can have a remarkably powerful effect, but trade agreements must be frank, have open dialogue and be based on mutual respect.
madam president, as in the case of most of the other economic partnership agreements, there was a great deal of concern over the eu’s approach to opening up markets asymmetrically. particularly in the case of côte d’ivoire, there was concern over the fact that, actually, there was not really a stable government in the country, and there were concerns over whether you could make a deal with a country in that position. but, once again, we have to recognise that the advantage of economic partnership agreements is that for the first time there is the possibility of listening to consumers and entrepreneurs in these countries rather than listening to the governments. and, when you speak to entrepreneurs in many of these countries, they say: please give us the access to goods and services that you currently enjoy in the north or the west so we can then create wealth, we can create jobs and we will no longer be dependent on aid in the long term. it is only by helping the entrepreneurs, the wealth-creators, in these countries that we can take these countries out of long-term poverty.
madam president, i am sorry we are keeping you from your lunch with our explanations of votes. as the chairman of the political affairs committee of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i have had many discussions with many of these small, peripheral – and extremely remote – states in the south pacific. they are not blessed with an abundance of natural resources and of course they are extremely remote and inaccessible, which makes it extremely important that we should facilitate access to our markets for their products and allow our own products to help and develop their own markets in their locations. we should take account of their unique geographical status and put in place measures to mitigate their situation and help them along the road to economic development and to enjoying the prosperity enjoyed by the rest of us. there are a lot of good things in these economic partnership agreements and i was delighted to be able to vote in favour of the report.
madam president, on the ghana agreement, i would like to say that there is an important point, because it is quite often argued, particularly the by socialists in this house, that we should not support the lowering of import tariffs in many of these countries. if you look at the example of ghana, the country only produces 30-35% of the rice its people consume. if we continue to support import tariffs on rice, what we are really saying to the very poor people in the country is that you will pay more for your food and you will pay more for your medicines. i consider it shameful that the socialists in this house continue to support import tariffs that keep the very poor even poorer. they should support the opening up of the markets and make sure that we support the entrepreneurs and support poor citizens.
madam president, i did a lot of work with the car industry when i was fortunate enough to be the shadow rapporteur on the sacconi report on co2 emissions from cars and that convinced me more than anything of the huge strategic and commercial value that the car industry offers to us in europe. i say that particularly as i represent the north east of england where we have the huge nissan manufacturing plant in washington, in tyne and wear, the most productive and efficient car plant in europe. but over the last decade the car industry has been assailed by very many additional rules, regulations and burdens from this place. it is more than a little ironic now to find the commission lamenting the terrible financial plight in which the industry finds itself. nevertheless i cannot believe that protectionism is the answer, not least because there would be many other industries also queuing up for financial aid from the taxpayer. in particular i want to mention the quite disgraceful actions of president sarkozy in france in giving state aid to his own manufacturers on the explicit assurance that they should withdraw production from other member states. that is a terrible road to protectionism and in the end will help nobody in europe.
madam president, as you can see, my colleagues are jealous of our relationship, which is why they have acted as our chaperones here this afternoon. i hope my words meet with your seal of approval. we all know that the car industry is having some serious financial problems. they are documented on a daily basis in all our national newspapers. in the region i represent, there is a large toyota plant at burnaston in derby, where various measures to cut costs have already been enacted to meet the new financial environment. in the excellent new uk parliamentary constituency of daventry, the mcclaren formula 1 precision engine plant is based, employing over 600 people. so all of us here know or represent some part of the car industry and we know of the financial problems that there are. but we have actually managed to compound them in this place by passing regulation after regulation after regulation in the good times, not looking forward to when times might be slightly leaner. the car industry cannot cope with the regulations that we have enforced. thank you for my extra time. i know the bit at the beginning perhaps cost me some seconds.
and you managed to get daventry in there. i could say that i think you and your two colleagues will probably owe me lunch after this.
madam president, my two colleagues and i will be very happy to buy lunch for you, and for your two colleagues on either side, though i am not sure whether you would enjoy our company any more than you enjoy our speeches. we all know what a serious situation many industries are facing at this time in trying to get hold of credit. there are many viable businesses which, before the credit crisis, would be making fantastic profits. really it just comes down to the accessibility of credit rather than any serious problems with their business models. on the other hand, there are plenty of companies that have for many years been very close to failing, propped up by state aid or making losses. looking at the example of america, where they have given aid to some of the most inefficient producers, producers who have not taken account of the times, let us make sure that we do not repeat those mistakes and give state aid or any aid to companies that have no long-term viable future. of course we must make sure we have long-term viable jobs, but let us make sure that we not are propping up failing companies.
madam president, it will come as no surprise to you that i supported the report on the future of the car industry, an industry that is sometimes maligned by some but, for me, a crucial sector of manufacturing in regions like mine, the west midlands. across europe it represents over 20% of manufacturing. the industry is a model, i believe, of the way a sector can transform itself, as i saw for myself on my recent visit to jaguar land rover in castle bromwich, where i was really impressed by the forward thinking of trade unions and their partnership with management to ensure continued research and development into green vehicles. i have also been urging the commission to approve the uk government’s support for the car industry, and i welcome that this has happened. but we also need better regulation and principles for future eu legislation when it comes to motor vehicles. our approach to industry during this economic downturn must be holistic. the components of cars are just as important as the car industry itself, so the supply chain’s future also has to be ensured. last week i visited the michelin tyre plant in stoke, and again i was impressed by the research and development fund and efforts to improve the efficiencies of tyres, with a view to providing environmental and social sustainability. there is little point in protecting the biggest industries without ensuring proper support for the small businesses down the supply chain.
in writing. − i support the recognition that flight efficiency needs to be improved and air traffic delays minimised contained in this report. i welcome the introduction of performance targets for air traffic management which should provide a more efficient aviation network to safeguard environmental and economic progress.
in writing. − british conservatives support the böge report and we particularly welcome the rapporteur’s proposals to make the budget more flexible and better equipped to respond to changing circumstances. we believe his proposal for a 5-year financial perspective will be a positive development. we also welcome his acknowledgement of the ‘1 % gni’ limit; and stress that, should this formula reflect declining gni in the member states, this will of necessity be reflected in the eu budget. however, we repeat our reservations with regard to the treaty of lisbon, which we oppose, and the proposed increases in funding for the cfsp. we regret that the rapporteur did not take this opportunity to remind council and the commission of their obligations, as agreed in the inter-institutional agreement of 2006, to provide timely and satisfactory certification for eu money spent under joint management agreements.
in writing. − i welcome the promise of flexibility given by the commission in moving from interim to full epas and the promise that negotiations will be driven by development concerns.
in writing. − today i was able to vote in favour of the parliament giving its assent to the epa and the interim epas only because of the assurances and undertaking of the new commissioner, cathy ashton, and because the governments of the countries concerned largely see this as a step forward, albeit insufficient. economic partnership agreements should become tools for poverty reduction and eradication whilst incorporating the aims of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp countries into the world economy. we must ensure that the trade agreements which we undertake with the acp countries are favourable to their interests and, crucially, that they are undertaken as tools for development.
in writing. − i gave assent to the cariforum epa and the côte d’ivoire interim epa in response to the guarantees which commissioner ashton gave this week. there has been a change of style and tone since commissioner ashton replaced commissioner mandelson and now we are receiving clear signals that there is a change of substance too. in the case of the cariforum epa, the commissioner gave clear assurances to rapporteur david martin on his concerns about access to generic medicines, the review clause, and flexibility on how the mfn clause would operate. before giving assent to the côte d’ivoire agreement, we were given clear and unequivocal confirmation that côte d’ivoire would be free to take what they wanted from any other epa. it is significant that, in the case of the sadc epa, the revision of a number of contentious clauses was agreed. this includes the protection of infant industries, the possibility to introduce new export taxes to assist industrial development, and export quotas. the decisions i took were not taken lightly, but were taken after careful consideration of the commitment to ensure that epas could be a tool for development, and reflect our partnership and mutual respect with the acp.
in writing. − the assurances i was given concerning generic medicines, the review clause and flexibility on how the most favoured nation clause would operate meant that i was able to support this report, for which i was rapporteur. the report should strike a balance between securing a fair deal for the eu but also ensuring that development is integral to the agreement so that cariforum states can prosper and reap the benefits of fair trade with the eu.
in writing. − car manufacturing within the eu depends upon reaching standards which can facilitate stronger environmental rules. this is not a contradiction to the idea of a competitive industry, but rather a contribution to its very survival. there are many european instruments which can be used to assist the car industry and its workers in particular. among them are funds to assist training through lifelong learning. having the right workforce which can believe in a sustainable manufacturing future is essential. i know that car manufacturers in the south-east of england now have the opportunity to take advantage of financial facilities which can promote car manufacture of the future. this must be balanced with environmental and social conditions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to speak on the justice and security issues covered in this report, not because i am not interested in the economic aspects but because i only have three minutes. clearly there is a vital need for transatlantic cooperation to combat terrorism and major crime, but it must be done in full respect of the rule of law – domestic and international – and of fundamental rights. for data-sharing, though, it must be a robust and binding legal framework of data protection. the clearest demonstration of the change in approach from president obama is the intention to close guantánamo bay. that is very welcome, and this house has called on member states to respond positively to a formal request from the us to resettle about 60 low-risk or no-risk former detainees who will not be charged. that request was officially delivered last week on the occasion of the visit of vice-president barrot and minister langer, and i hope that we see a result soon. i understand it is helped by the willingness now by the americans to resettle some themselves, such as the 17 uighurs. it would also be good if president obama could go further than his january executive orders and announce the closure of all cia detention centres and a total end to extraordinary rendition. full disclosure of what has happened in the last seven and a half years, including the shameful use of the outsourcing of torture, is necessary to ensure that there is no repeat, and especially no repeat of the collusion from europe. this report, adopting an amendment i tabled, urges the new us administration to ratify and accede to the statute of the international criminal court. this would obviously strengthen that court. us abolition of the death penalty would similarly represent global leadership. the prompt entry into force of the eu-us extradition and legal assistance agreements would boost criminal law cooperation, as well as eliminating the grey area which made extraordinary rendition flights possible. but such cooperation can only be supported if it delivers fair treatment. i have a constituent who is under threat of extradition and decades in a supermax prison because he hacked into the pentagon computer. it is alarming that he succeeded, but he is a computer anorak, not a terrorist, and he has asperger’s syndrome. the us should drop its extradition request and let him be prosecuted, if at all, in the uk. finally i would like to address the subject of the alde group amendments which concern online gambling. it is important to get a swift solution to this dispute, which concerns bans and prosecutions by the us affecting only european internet gambling operators in illegally selective prosecutions. the us asserts in front of the wto that all internet betting is forbidden there, but that is not true. us-based online betting on horse racing, and indeed official state lotteries, are tolerated, but only foreign providers are prosecuted. i have no particular love for internet gambling – indeed, it worries me – but discriminatory treatment in brazen defiance of wto rulings has no place in a healthy transatlantic relationship. by the way, nor do visas, so i hope we will have visa waiver for all eu citizens very soon.
mr president, i think this is a very important report we have in front of us given the fact that our rapporteur, francisco millán mon, has been able to bring this report from the committee on foreign affairs almost unanimously. i have not known that in the past: all groups actually combining to show that they are in favour of a stronger transatlantic partnership. indeed, i have noted that, in this report, we now, for the first time, call it the most strategic partnership that we have. we have lots of other ones, but this one is the key one for us in the european union. as was mentioned earlier, there is a new tone, but i sense too that this is a tone from the americans looking to what europe can do to be a partner in the global system and that we then have to think what we are going to be able to contribute to this process. i think that the highlight in this debate was you, madam commissioner, saying that what we are looking for is a more strategic dialogue, the ability to look at long-term trends, like the nic report 2025 does; to be able to look further down the road to see that we can share a common analysis together, to be able to come to common action together as a result of that. i suspect this will need some generation within the european union, perhaps our support in the 2010 budget, to be able to formulate our own long-term thinking – because there is very little long-term thinking, either in the commission or indeed even in our house, about long-term trends such as is found in the nic report. in doing so, we are going to have to find a way to establish a more even playing field for the involvement of europeans and americans in these debates. in the past five years we have seen a huge influx of us think tanks into brussels telling us what we should be doing on particular aspects of policy, but there is very little about europeans in washington being able to communicate to the americans what our ideas are on the shaping of european policy. we need to focus on that to provide the right budgetary input to give that kind of impact, so that we get an even input and feed-in into our transatlantic discussions.
mr president, i wish to offer some cautionary words, particularly to the new obama administration. over the last 60 years, the united states has had a range of attitudes towards european integration. naturally, it sees this from the perspective of an outsider and may even imagine – erroneously, i believe – that it is similar to america’s own historical experience. this is the view encouraged by the dominant federalist tendency in the eu institutions. the danger is that us interlocutors accept the eu’s own narrative as fact, rather than as a story presented as a documentary but with a lot of misleading and fictional content. the us should understand that many of us believe that the eu is heading in the wrong direction and that its aspiration to create a state called europe does not reflect the wishes of our citizens, rightly attached as they are to the sovereignty of our nations and their ability to elect and remove governments. neither is it in the interests of the united states for the freely given commitment of many european countries to coalition to be usurped by a differently minded european union. i have to say that i have much respect for mr millán mon and i can approve many of the sentiments in his report, but not its main thrust, which is to elevate the role of the eu as an institution as our unique spokesman in dealings with the united states.
author. − mr president, i do apologise – i did not realise that i had speaking time on this particular subject. i would just like to comment on what the previous speaker said. i think it is important that we support the legislation coming out to bring turkmenistan closer to us. as for all these countries, we need to make sure that they are secure in a very difficult environment. at this point i would like to thank daniel caspary, who has worked tirelessly to get the legislation through. i know he is speaking in a minute or two, but he has worked in the committee on international trade on this particular legislation. at a time when the world is suffering from huge constraints on financial services and other problems, we need to ensure the security of these countries, as well as just making sure that they join in with the present legislation that daniel is proposing. i have no further points to make and i do apologise for being late.
mr president, like the two previous speakers, i fear that the commission and the council have both painted rather a rose-tinted view of what is now the situation in turkmenistan. the current president may be marginally better than the president he replaced in february 2007, but is he sufficiently better for us to agree to an interim trade agreement as a precursor for a partnership and cooperation agreement? as mr markov and ms flautre said, in the committee on international trade we set five very clear tasks for turkmenistan that we would want to see met before we gave our agreement. firstly, we said that the international red cross had to have free access to turkmenistan. unless the commission and the council can tell me differently, i understand that up until now the red cross has not been able to visit one single prison or prisoner in turkmenistan. secondly, we said that they had to realign their education system with international standards. the council is right to say that it has expanded the secondary education system by one year, but my understanding again is that, despite minor improvements in the education system, this has not been aimed at the mass of turkmens but at the elite and preparing those who wish to work in the oil and gas sector. thirdly we have asked for the release of all political prisoners. some have been released, but not many, and there are literally hundreds, if not thousands, of political prisoners languishing in jails in turkmenistan, still awaiting a fair trial. fourthly, we said that we wanted the abolition of all restrictions to external travel. it is interesting that both the council and commission concentrated on internal travel. we said there had to be external travel freedom as well. that has not been delivered. finally, we said there had to be free access for independent ngos, free access for the un human rights bodies and freedom of the press. well, there is no press freedom, there is no free access for ngos, and, while the un inspector on religious tolerance may have been allowed in, turkmenistan has the longest queue of un-requested visits of any country in the world. is this really a country that we can do business with? well, i suspect for the majority in this house and in other institutions the answer is clearly ‘yes’. why have things changed since the trade committee passed its resolution in 2007? cynics might say that it is because gas and oil have been discovered in turkmenistan, because we want to build a new pipeline, because we suddenly find it in our strategic interest. if that is the case, let us not pretend it is to do with an improvement in human rights. it is to do with self-interest at european union level. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, there is a lot more to mysterious turkmenistan than just oil and gas. that is not to say that the country’s hydrocarbon resources are not important. in fact they are of vital strategic value to the eu, given the union’s wish, and turkmenistan’s apparent desire, to move out of russia’s shadow when it comes to energy supplies. turkmenistan’s immense and clearly accessible gas resources are enough on their own to demand a closer relationship with the eu. nevertheless there are other reasons as well for which i believe we should be seeking an interim trade agreement with turkmenistan. the country is a prime example of a peaceful and stable muslim country with a secular government committed to fighting islamist terrorism in afghanistan, where we have a war going on. of course there are still serious concerns about human rights, democracy and political freedoms, but such concerns also exist with regard to russia and china, and i do not remember the socialists raising this over the tibet debate recently. yet we maintain strategic relations with both these large countries. we will encourage further change in turkmenistan through dialogue and partnership, not by isolation. therefore i generally support better relations between the eu and central asian countries. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, i just wish to agree very much with my colleague, dr charles tannock. his concluding remarks, had he not been cut off, were to the effect that the eu should be encouraged – and indeed the commission and council should finance – trans-caspian pipelines to central asia in order to reduce the danger of being reliant on a monopoly source, so that we are able to avoid possibly falling prey to the foreign policy objectives of one of our neighbours.
mr president, thank you for giving me the floor. i wanted to come back because i wanted to put a very specific question to the commission before they take the floor again. i want to know precisely how any human rights clause that we agree would be invoked and implemented. would it be the commission that decides whether there has been a breach of human rights and, if the commission so decides, will it be agreed in the council to suspend agreement by unanimity or by qualified majority? how practical will a human rights clause actually be? we have human rights clauses in many of our international agreements and to date – with the exception of the next debate – we have hardly ever invoked any of them, belarus being one of the rare exceptions.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the eu’s relations with belarus are rightly now being driven by pragmatic considerations on both sides. years of isolationist policy led nowhere, as the council has somewhat belatedly now realised. it certainly did nothing to loosen the grip on power enjoyed by europe’s last self-isolating dictator, president alexander lukashenko. two weeks ago, here in strasbourg, i had the privilege to meet two prominent dissidents from belarus to discuss political developments in their country. one of them, alexander kazulin, had recently been released as a political prisoner, which is one of the reasons why the eu has begun to look at lukashenko in a more favourable light. but political repression still remains a serious problem in belarus. it is therefore open to question whether this apparent thaw in relations between the eu and belarus will lead us anywhere, as lukashenko may well be playing a game with russia as he leans more towards the eu. but it is better than our sticking with the failed boycotting policy of the past decade. it is essential that the council maintains a carrot-and-stick approach to belarus: if lukashenko is offered clear incentives for internal political reform he may well respond favourably. but, equally, he needs to know that he cannot carry on as before and that any sign of increased authoritarianism and repression will cause rapprochement to cease and reduce support by the eu for belarus’s wto membership ambitions. at this stage, inviting lukashenko to prague for the may summit to launch the eastern partnership, to which belarus belongs, could be a step too far in my view. we need to link closer relations to tangible commitments on the regime’s part to change its ways. belarus must also be persuaded that recognition of the georgian regions of abkhazia and south ossetia as independent states – as at present is the case only by russia – is unacceptable. i believe that belarus is seeking to distance itself from russian control and we need to take advantage of this window of opportunity. undoubtedly, promoting genuine change in belarus demands patience and commitment on the part of the eu, but the prize – belarus back in the european family of nations – is well worth aspiring to.
mr president, the ‘catch-the-eye’ procedure agreed by this house does not lay down that the president may select members according to which group they belong to. the ‘catch-the-eye’ procedure, as i understand it, is for each individual member to catch the eye of you, the president. i think it is regrettable that you have just said you will only allow three members of the ppe-de group to speak. that is not in accordance with our rules of procedure.
madam president, why is it that democrats feel so restrained about naming dictators and those who dedicated their careers to combating democracy, enslaving countries, persecuting those who dared to speak against them and are responsible for crimes? this evening, we are not talking about totalitarianism, we are not talking in euphemisms: we are talking about hitler’s fascist, criminal dictatorship and joseph stalin’s communist criminal dictatorship. when i was 16 years old i lived in frankfurt am main, which is two hours’ tank drive away from prague. minister, alexander dubček, whom we honoured in this house, tried very hard to liberalise the system. he spoke about the human face of communism. the inhuman face of communism was leonid brezhnev and his predecessors and successors. i believe, commissioner, that if we are to stand by our beliefs we should honour the victims of communism and fascism. we should make no distinction between these twin criminals – that is what they were. the only difference is that hitler lost the war and stalin won the war. today the president of this parliament honoured the memory of those deported from three baltic states – estonia, latvia and lithuania. but, minister, your country suffered: jan palach lost his life. he tried desperately to demonstrate the limits to which he would go to show that the regime under which he lived was unacceptable. i remember listening, aged 16, to radio prague as the tanks occupied your capital city in wenceslas square. ‘don’t forget us’ is what your brave countrymen said. this evening, commissioner, we do not forget those who suffered. we should have the courage to name those who were responsible, but we should look to the future to ensure that never again this continent suffers from hitlerism or stalinism. (applause)
the next item is the report by stavros lambrinidis, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, with a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on strengthening security and fundamental freedoms on the internet (2008/2160(ini)) (a6-0103/2009).
i gave ms in’t veld a little bit of extra time because she has 400 followers on twitter. i have only got nine. four hundred and fifty now.
thank you, colleagues. thank you, mr mavrommatis, for your opinion and special thanks to the rapporteur, mr lambrinidis, for his success and for an important and interesting report. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 26 march 2009. written statements (rule 142)
in writing. – i congratulate the rapporteur on this report. i believe the internet has enhanced europeans’ lives in countless ways. it has increased our ability to access knowledge, aided our understanding of the world around us and reinforced our social connections to other people. but constituents tell me they are also concerned about the dangers of the internet. we have remarkable technology at our fingertips, but the very freedom it gives us has also left criminals free to abuse the technology. this report, in its focus on fundamental rights, will go a long way to making the internet safer. we spoke during the last part-session on the need to tackle child pornography. through balancing liberty and security, the proposals we have voted on today will form a further vital tool in the fight against that threat. the report also raises concerns about e-literacy. we cannot move forward as a society together if, by promoting new freedoms for some, we restrict the rights of those who are less familiar with the internet. we have gladly taken on board the profound changes the internet has wrought. to move even further forward, our focus should now shift to dealing with the negatives of this revolution just as willingly.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the follow-up to the declaration of the sports ministers of the european union at their meeting in biarritz in november 2008 by katerina batzeli and doris pack, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (o-0049/2009 – b6-0223/2009).
mr president, i thank the commissioner very much indeed for his opening statement. what everyone is asking about is legal certainty. i have a couple of questions based on that and also one on the treaty of lisbon, should it be ratified. as a good conservative euro-sceptic, i should say that i hope it never is. but i was just wondering, what will this mean – if it is ratified – for sporting organisations and governing bodies? many of these governing bodies believe that it will recognise concretely their specificity, the specificity of sport. so, commissioner, could you tell us how this recognition in the new treaty will help sport? will sport then get derogations from different aspects, like employment law or other laws, that they actually want to try and achieve? on legal certainty, there are so many questions that the commission should and could be helping sporting organisations with now. should companies from overseas be investing huge amounts of money into sporting clubs within europe? i have no problem with this. i actually see it as direct inward investment and, therefore, a very positive thing. but sporting organisations and many governing bodies think this is a bad thing. so, what is your interpretation of a sporting organisation banning such a practice? as my colleague, mr belet, said, uefa is currently proposing to ban transfers of under-18s across borders. european law recognises a worker as someone essentially with the minimum age of 16, so what happens when a 17-year old challenges the fact that he was not able to move to a big club in a country that was not his own, in the current situation that we find ourselves in? home-grown players; ‘six plus five’ with fifa: what is the clarification of those two points? also, football is always very interested in these subjects and it seems to drive the agenda. however, all of these matters actually affect polo and rugby union and table tennis players – all sports are affected. are we looking at a wider range of sports? will the commission actually open up a forum where sport can come and talk to the commission openly about some of the problems it has and get some of these questions answered on a regular basis – no matter with the treaty of lisbon or without?
commissioner, you have the floor – bearing in mind that we have had many questions, but there actually only two on the oral question.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the negotiations taking place in may 2009 under the auspices of the international maritime organisation (imo) on the conditions for the entry into force of the convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships by johannes blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0028/2009 – b6-0224/2009).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 26 march 2009.
the next item is the report by klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the white paper on damages actions for breach of the ec antitrust rules (2008/2154(ini)) – (a6-0123/2009).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking mr lehne for his report and to confirm that my group will be supporting that report. i would also like to say that i find it a little odd that we are having this debate late at night when we have a question on the same subject tabled for tomorrow morning. it would have made a great deal of sense to have put both together. however, in complimenting the report, let me say that my group’s starting point will be ‘doing justice’ – doing justice for smes and consumers across the european union, where they have to face inappropriate and anti-competitive action. a few weeks ago my group organised a seminar at parliament in brussels, and i was very struck by certain of our visitors who were at the sharp end of such anti-competitive action, ironically in the cement industry. what did they say? please, please, get on with this: we need something that will allow us to pursue these inappropriate operators in the european market. we want a european solution, and we want it sooner rather than later, because, if we do not get it, my forecast and my warning is this: some of our member states will develop systems that will lead to forum shopping as a result of free movement of judgements. so, please – a european system as soon as possible.
i shall make sure that your point concerning the agenda is communicated to the conference of presidents, which fixes the agenda – sometimes it makes mistakes.
i should like to thank you all for your contributions on this important topic and also thank the commissioner, the staff and the interpreters. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 26 march 2009. written statements (rule 142)
madam president, you have heard some diverging views around the house this morning on this issue. i congratulate, of course, mr siekierski. at a time of deepening economic recession and the tens of millions of people who are living in poverty and are hungry, of course, as a parliament, we have to find ways of helping them and providing them with food aid. but, as the commissioner pointed out, there are 19 participating member states in this project. that means there are eight member states not participating. the uk is one of them, and the reason is that they use their own social policy to provide aid for the poor. they withdrew from this scheme many years ago. the question that many member states and the commission are asking is: why are we using the cap to finance social policy? this used to be perfectly ok when we had massive surpluses – milk lakes, butter mountains and beef mountains – and were required to distribute this food to the poor, using the cap budget to finance that distribution. but now, when there is very little in intervention – and we are hearing now that we have to buy in food even from outwith the eu and use the cap budget to store and distribute this food – this surely is becoming something that should be better handled by member states’ social policy. when you consider that there are people living in complete deprivation in some of the new member states, like romania, and many of these people, by the way, are subsistence farmers, they are the people who the poorest. yet we are potentially taking money from them – money from the cap budget that could help them – to distribute this food aid, the main beneficiaries of which are actually old member states, like france, italy and spain. so there has not been a level playing field applied to this distribution of aid, and in future i think we should be very cautious about how we take this forward.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, it is a pleasure to welcome commissioner kuneva to the house once again. commissioner, i only need to use your own words about your energy and vigour in pursuing the interests of consumers, which, i think from our side of the house and, indeed, for all members of our committee, we have admired, and we encourage you very much to continue that work. as far as the collective redress proposal is concerned, i think you are approaching it in exactly the right way. we have consistently said that this is an extremely complex issue. it involves not just european-level measures but also very difficult issues about engagement with national law and regional law and, above all, as you indicated, the consumer has to be at the heart of it. you have been really consistent in saying that consumer confidence in the internal market and cross-border trading is one of the fundamental issues that we have to raise, because otherwise consumers are not getting their rights of access and being able to use and exercise their choice across borders. i think that remains at the heart of what you are discussing today. above all, i think the timing and complexity of solutions is important, because you have evoked a wide range of solutions here, but it is quite clear that solutions that may involve some new european-level judicial mechanisms will clearly take far longer and potentially be more controversial than picking up some of the alternative dispute resolution measures or also using the existing consumer cooperation measures that have been put in place. i think all of us on this committee recall that, in fact, the enhanced cooperation on consumers was an aspect that was put through our committee in the last parliament, and we would like to see that become more effective. i think there is a vehicle there that can be used to give consumers the sort of redress that we are looking for, not just in collective claims but also in dealing with cross-border claims themselves much more effectively. if we can get that sense of priority there and timing and speed to come up with the best solutions quickly, i think that is the way that i commend you to think about moving forward.
mr president, i know the commissioner is aware that tomorrow 4 000 consumers will go to the high court in the uk to seek compensation for severe allergic reactions, hospitalisation and death as the result of the use of a chemical in sofas and household goods, which has now been banned in the eu. france, sweden and poland have reported similar cases and injuries. across europe there are potentially many thousands of consumers who have suffered severe injuries as a result of this toxic chemical. i believe that citizens support european intervention when it is seen to give real help to consumers to tackle real problems. real help in such cases means giving them the right to take action collectively, wherever they buy goods and services. so our committee launched an online consultation on the commission proposal for consumer rights. we received many responses, many of which – from businesses and consumers – highlighted the need for effective access to cross-border remedies and redress. there are, i believe, enough cases like the toxic sofa case with enough compelling evidence to prove that a range of options for collective redress is needed, not only to improve access to justice, but equally to deter illegal or unfair business practices. of course in our committee we want consumers to have access to cheap, affordable means, such as adr, but i believe today’s debate is first and foremost about identifying practical ways to give real help to our consumers and citizens, to ensure they get a fair deal, real redress and real remedies.
mr president, i wish to inform the house that, on a matter of principle, i wish to withdraw my name from the socialist group’s alternative motion for a resolution on the auken report. furthermore, after five years of working on this issue, i wish to inform members that i will be voting against both alternative motions for resolution and voting in favour of the auken report. (applause)
mr president, i was unaware of that – i thought you could just wave at the appropriate moment. this had the makings of a great report. i drew up the opinion in the committee on foreign affairs. india is the largest democracy in the world; it is now coming out from many decades of protectionism, embracing global free trade; it is surviving fairly robustly the global financial crisis. it would have been great to have achieved a deep free trade agreement between india and the european union, which is also a very large democratic polity, and it would also be a nail in the coffin to those who are saying that protectionism is the way ahead in global trade. so i deeply regret that this report was so amended by the socialists as to make it unpalatable and unacceptable to those of us who support free trade. india also deeply regrets that: the government of india had stored a great deal of political capital in the idea of this agreement going through in a way that would have been good for india and good for europe. therefore, we had to vote against it, i am afraid to say.
mr president, i welcome this report as a shot across the bows of supermarket giants. tesco, for example, recently announced profits of gbp 2.8 billion, while food producers in my constituency struggle to make a living. the major supermarkets have been abusing their buying power to suppress prices to suppliers to unsustainable levels and to impose, i must say, unfair and unilateral demands as the price of retaining the contract. in the long run, as the uk competition commission has pointed out, this will equally damage consumers as choice, availability and quality are squeezed out of the market. thus i support the call for an investigation into the margin share in the production and distribution chain. someone, somewhere, is doing very nicely, but it certainly is not the producer.
mr president, of course this report about food prices fails to reflect the reality of the situation – that food prices in the eu are kept artificially high by a brutal combination, on the one hand, of excessive eu bureaucracy and, on the other hand, by the now notorious common agricultural policy. farm subsidies ensure that inefficient farmers are bankrolled at the expense of the european taxpayer and, at the same time, of course, ensure that the prices that we as consumers pay in shops and supermarkets for agricultural produce remain disproportionately high. the one thing that the commission could do to address the disproportionately high prices of food is to announce tomorrow that they are going to dismantle the common agricultural policy, but of course they will not do that because certain member states, particularly france, benefit disproportionately from huge sums of taxpayers’ money being poured into an inefficient, grossly disproportionate farming sector. that is the one thing the commission should do, but of course they will not.
mr president, fidel castro lies in his sick bed in his sultry caribbean island, fading away – and not before time. when eventually he passes, there will be only two marxist systems of agriculture left in the world: the collective farms of north korea and europe’s common agricultural policy, a policy based on price-fixing, a policy based on the storage and destruction of food stocks for which there is no market, a policy which wantonly passes on costs and unnecessary suffering to the third world, which is deprived of its natural market. we are penalised twice over – as consumers and as taxpayers – by high prices and by high taxes, and yet our farmers are penalised too. in my south-east region in england, farming is disappearing as a meaningful part of the economy. our bluebell groves and our chestnut copses and our hop fields are gradually giving way to the spread of concrete. it has now been 50 years that our consumers and farmers have been crucified to pay for this bureaucracy. enough is enough.
mr president, i strongly support the rapporteur in her report and salute her sterling work on behalf of citizens right across europe who have fallen foul of the outrageous property practices in spain. the right to own and enjoy private property is a fundamental right, recognised by the european convention. yet several constituents of mine, who put their life savings into a home in spain, now find themselves ambushed and devastated by laws and claims which would deprive them of their property or cost them enormous sums of money in order to retain it. it appears that civic authorities in spain, in cahoots with grasping, unscrupulous developers, have been a terror to those who thought they were buying legitimate homes and properties, and, if this report helps address that, then it can only do good.
mr president, i also supported the auken report. i supported it because many of my constituents in the north-east of england are among the petitioners who petitioned parliament about this disgraceful and flagrant abuse of property rights by the spanish government and local authorities. indeed they were recently the subject of a tv documentary by itv north east, where some of these heart-rending cases were brought to life and were examined for the public of the north-east to see. i hope even now, at this late stage, that the spanish government and spanish meps will right some of the wrongs that have been done and will give some restitution to some of these people who have been unlawfully denied their property and recognise that, actually, what has gone on here is a scandal. it is a corrupt scandal. many of the deals involving property developers and spanish local government are, frankly, the result of corruption. we serve nobody by failing to recognise that essential point. the spanish government needs to act. i am, frankly, appalled at some of the abuses that have gone on in this chamber by spanish meps seeking to cover up these practices.
mr president, i, too, voted for this report as so many of my constituents – as has been the case across the european union – have been so badly affected by this particular problem. the requirement to have legal certainty about purchasing property is essential and is brought about by this report, which seeks to get the kinds of insurances that are necessary to see change. it also addresses the specific issues of complaints concerning illegal practices by local builders and certain local authorities. i voted for this report because i believe it is going to help secure a formal process; it is going to highlight something that i regarded in the past as being just a derogatory statement, i.e. ‘spanish practices’. i would like to ensure that term never sees the light of day again and i would like to see the commission, the council and the spanish government deal with this issue and come down hard, so that those who have lost out can get compensation or those who are there can feel secure.
mr president, before i start, may i say how pleased i am to find out that your parents are in the chamber, not just because it is nice to have an audience, but so they can see how your fair chairmanship of these sittings has earned you respect across the chamber, including even from british conservatives. it is ‘so true, funny how it seems’ that in just a few short days president obama comes to strasbourg. looking through the barricades being erected he might reflect, if he thinks at all about the european parliament, that its two-seats policy is absolutely mad, a complete waste of money. indeed, he will think:‘round and round it goes,and oh don’t you know,this is the game that we came here for. round and round it goes.’ but soon he will be gone, looking at the hopeless nature of the one-size-fits-all regulation that cripples eu businesses, and doubtless he will think that there is no lifeline that he can throw. and‘because [he has] nothing else here for you,and just because it’s easier than the truth,oh if there’s nothing else that [he] can do –’ he will fly away – ‘fly for you’, out of this place, having felt that you should ‘always believe in your soul’. ‘luck has left [him] standing so tall.’ and praise ring in the heavens, for spandau ballet have re-formed!
mr president, while i have the opportunity, can i also pay tribute to the fair and impartial manner in which you have always chaired our parliamentary sessions? it is a shame that president pöttering does not somehow follow your example in so many ways in this. this report is about the united states and us-eu relations. of course america remains fundamental to europe’s security and prosperity. sadly, in this house there are many examples of anti-american sentiment. all of us in the eu should be profoundly grateful for the role that the us plays in the world and particularly the role that it has played in our recent history. i laugh sometimes when i hear the suggestion that it is the eu that is responsible for 60 years of peace in europe. everybody seems to forget about the contribution of the us, and, of course, nato, in contributing towards peace in europe. america should not be a rival of the eu. it should be a partner and a friend and we should build closer transatlantic relations.
mr president, british conservatives are proud of our country’s special relationship with the united states and the bridge between america and europe. we support president obama’s commitment to multilateral engagement with the european union. however, this report mentions the implementation of the lisbon treaty, which we strongly oppose. it also calls for the us to abolish the death penalty, which for us is a personal conscience issue. given the british conservatives’ current opposition to the international criminal court, we also acknowledge america’s right not to sign the rome statute. we also do not wish to be obliged to resettle dangerous terrorists from the guantánamo bay detention camp. this report rightly reiterates that nato is the cornerstone of transatlantic security and proposes a new transatlantic parliamentary assembly, which will reinforce a mutual commitment to our common values of democracy, liberty and human rights. therefore, overall, the british conservatives voted in favour of the millán mon report.
mr president, i particularly welcome this report and i share some of the points that were raised just now, but perhaps we should start off by formally congratulating mr obama on becoming president. i do not think that we have all done that here today, but it is quite clearly a breath of fresh air for what we hope will be a very positive relationship with the united states. we are very quick to point out how that relationship can work for us, of course, but we do not point out quite so often what we have to do to strengthen it and work within it. for example, trade between us, according to the oecd, is the largest between any two trading blocs anywhere in the world. it is right that it also causes us to think hard about regulation and supervision. anything that is decided between us, both economically and politically, is of great importance to the rest of the world and often sets the global standards. i, as a member of the us delegation working on the transatlantic economic council, hope that we can take further the work that we have already done there and transpose that into real efforts within this house, instead of seeing some of the silly efforts from some, on issues like chicken, which help blight that particular relationship.
in writing. − the eu is india's top foreign investor and biggest trading partner. forging an economic alliance is therefore vital to both. i support this report because it stresses that the agreement should ensure that increasing bilateral trade brings benefits to the widest number of people and contributes to the millennium development goals, including preventing environmental degradation. however i regret that the epp text replaced the more comm. text which was more progressive.
in writing. − i support this report which demands responsible and clear rules for subcontracting in europe. the report will protect employees who work for subcontracting companies by calling on the commission to establish a clear-cut community legal instrument introducing joint and several liability at european level.
in writing. − i have decided together with my colleagues from the european parliamentary labour party, to support the original report, which offers the most satisfactory response to the hundreds of petitions submitted by european citizens, victims of the massive rush for urbanisation in spain, overbuilding and coastal destruction. the alternative resolutions tabled substantially modified the report, and did not meet the consistent position we have held for 5 years now.
in writing. − the report is a cosmetic exercise designed to maintain false hopes, among hundreds of petitioners, during the approach to the eu assembly’s elections. it purports to be able to take actions, which – as the committee on legal affairs points out – the eu is not competent to take; so that even auken’s threat to oppose the next eu budget, if the report’s demands are not met, could not help those who have bought, and then been deprived of, properties in spain. the ukip will not contribute to this imposture.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which follows a huge number of petitions to parliament by victims and concerned citizens from across europe. this report demonstrates that the massive urbanisation in several regions of spain has been carried out in a way which abuses property rights, degrades the environment, undermines water provision and quality, and often leaves victims bereft of any redress or compensation when they may have lost their life savings. i hope that this report will assist many of my constituents and citizens from across europe who have been affected by this, in their battle for justice.
in writing. − i am submitting an explanation of vote on the auken report in support of three separate constituents who have contacted me pleading for help. in each of these three cases, the constituent has spent his or her life savings on the purchase of a house and land in valencia. in each case, proper legal procedures were followed at the time of the purchase. but, in each case, the constituent has subsequently had to suffer illegal land-grabbing demands by the valencian authorities. these are just three of many thousands of cases of injustice suffered by european citizens owning property in spain. i ask the commission to act swiftly and decisively in accordance with the recommendations of the auken report.
in writing. − thousands of european citizens continue to be victims of a system of massive urbanisation, expressed in a very large number of petitions concerning the abuse of the legitimate rights of european citizens to their property and environment. the problem has been caused by public procurement with insufficient control of the urbanisation procedures by local and regional authorities. the resolution adopted should begin to bring concrete solutions to people living in the affected areas in spain.
in writing. − i am pleased parliament voted in favour of this report. many scottish people have been affected by the spanish land grab, losing their homes which many have saved a lifetime to afford. the spanish government must do all it can to bring justice to those people affected. many people were misled and lied to over what they were buying and there must be a legal remedy to the situation.
in writing. − we voted in favour of the report on urbanisation in spain because it reflects the result of several years of detailed work by the committee on petitions to respond to hundreds of related petitions by several thousand petitioners, including fact-finding visits and discussions with all interested parties and it was adopted by a large cross-party majority in committee. we have a duty as elected representatives to ensure that european citizens whom we have encouraged to make use of their free movement rights should not then be subjected to arbitrary or unjustified restrictions in the host state. we recognise that the primary responsibility under the treaties for the monitoring of the application of community law lies with the commission. we also recognise that the treaties explicitly exclude any effect on domestic rules governing the system of property ownership. however, we also believe, firstly, that parliament’s petitions committee, as the ‘eyes and ears’ of the institutions, should highlight any systematic problems affecting the free movement of thousands of our citizens which are brought to light by the petitions process. secondly, we consider that violations of community law appear to be at issue, in particular environmental law and public procurement rules.
in writing. − as a fervent opponent of the eu and its continual meddling in our lives, i have consistently voted against the vast majority of reports that i have been asked to consider. as is inevitable, a report will come along that simply demands a different approach and i believe that the auken report is one. i have been approached by many expats, all of whom did everything they could to establish a proper, legal and sustainable life in spain. that they became victims of a clash of bureaucracies is now a matter of history and hopefully this report will compel an equitable solution. my action here does not imply a softening of my attitude to the eu and its impenetrable, inflexible and unaccountable structure. however, if subordinate bureaucracies will not solve the problems they themselves create, then a solution must be found. i hope now that the myriad problems created by the various spanish authorities will be addressed and that such will be promptly resolved in the best interests of my constituents. i have a nagging worry that such intervention may not be the solution. in the land of the eu, the only continuing law is that of the unintended consequence.
in writing. − i attach enormous importance to the transatlantic relationship and have consistently argued for revitalising and strengthening nato. contrary to the main thrust of this report, however, i do not believe that this should mean replacing the strong links between the united states and individual member states (britain in particular) with an ‘eu-us partnership’. the references to the treaty of lisbon, which our people do not want, and the proposal that the putative commission vice-president/high representative should co-chair a new ‘transatlantic political council’, are examples of this. in addition, i have specific objections to aspects of the report dealing with eu defence. the report welcomes ‘an enhanced european defence capability’ and explicitly endorses the european security and defence policy, to which conservative opposition has been constant. for these reasons i abstained on the report.
in writing. − i support this report’s aims to strengthen security and fundamental freedoms on the internet.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i am very pleased indeed to have this opportunity to discuss this debate. it is only unfortunate that we are doing it on a thursday afternoon when it is not quite as well attended as perhaps it should be. i do think this is an important debate in the context of the current economic climate. we have already heard discussion about culture and jobs and how culture industries and people working in culture can contribute to the economy and can really help. at the precarious times we are facing now – which we have heard already in this parliament – it is important that we discuss these matters as fully as we can. i am here also because i do actually represent one of those big cities that the previous speaker mentioned. london, as you all know, is one of the cultural centres of the eu with – as we all have – enormous history and very much to offer. it is also the centre of, certainly the british, cultural industries. so i think i have a role here to speak for the people that i represent and to fight for those jobs which, when things get bad, are very often the first jobs to go. so i very much welcome what the commission has said about the role of cultural industries, about how we want to preserve and to build on those and how there is an economic role for culture. i feel that, very often, that economic role is ignored, and we do not talk about it; we do not even think about it, and we relegate culture to second-class status. that is not acceptable, particularly when culture can be so very important in our national and regional development. i hope that one of the things to come out of this debate today – that we take back to our member states, and the commission and the council take back – is that we are very concerned about how this regional development happens, how we deal with this and the role that culture can play in that. also, as mrs pack has already said, there is the whole question of cultural diversity. i think one of the great strengths of the eu, and of the european parliament, is that we all come together – now with 27 member states – and are actually very different, in many ways: different backgrounds and cultures, and obviously different languages. that is just a start. although the world is getting smaller and although people come together more, there are still these significant differences. we should be celebrating them, because those differences are at the very core of the things that we talk about. we all want to preserve our identities and how we feel about ourselves, and we need to do that. in this context, i think we also need to take on board that we are getting people coming into our continent. we are getting people from other parts of the world – many of whom are now in second and third generations in some of our member states – who come from different backgrounds again. i think we also need to take on board that they come with their own culture, tradition and languages. although we integrate them and they learn our languages, they are still there with their own separate identities. that is an issue which has not been mentioned in this debate, which i think is an important one and one that we, i hope, can integrate, particularly when we talk about issues such as multilingualism, which we have had good debates on. it is an extremely important issue, and i think one we should perhaps give more prominence to than we have done, but in the context of a europe which is changing. we therefore need to preserve our existing cultures and our existing diversity and actually absorb the new diversity which has come, and which is continuing to come, into our continent. for all of these reasons, i welcome the support that we are giving to culture and to cultural industries, support to small and medium-enterprises, which i think – in the current economic climate – are possibly going to be the backbone of what we will be looking at. if large corporations and large enterprises are losing people, making people redundant and laying people off, it may well be up to the smaller outfits – the smes – to pick up this slack and to actually go out there and create employment for those who can work in this sector. so i hope we will all recognise just how important the role of culture is in our continent and our society and that those of us who have actually turned up for this debate will take the message back to our member states, to the regions and to the people we represent. i know we have got a good message to say, so let us go out there and spread the word.
madam president, i come with two questions for the commissioner. one: what is culture? and two: what on earth has it got to do with the european union? in my region lies the historic county of northamptonshire. part of its cultural identity, its history, its fabric, comes from its historic ties with the shoemaking industry. shoemaking in the county was first recognised in the year 1202, when peter the cordwainer was almost famous within the county. in 1452 the court regulated prices and weights for various traders, including the cordwainers, and northampton itself has served as a home to the shoe industry for all that time. in 1841, according to the census list, there were 1 821 shoemakers within the county. the county’s football team, northampton football club, is still referred to as ‘the cobblers’, and in northamptonshire now we have 34 shoe factories still open, all over 100 years old. i am wearing a pair of barker shoes today from a village called earls barton in the wonderful westminster constituency of daventry. we have a museum, we have cultural events around the shoemaking industry – and it all came before the european union. so, whilst i completely understand the role of culture in countries’ regions, i wonder if or how the european union can help us in these things. and what are europe’s regions? i think we should leave it to culture in europe’s regions to develop as it always has done – locally, organically, and not centrally government-led.
madam president, i rise to support my colleague, zbigniew zaleski. somebody once said: ‘when i hear the word “culture”, i reach for my revolver’. i think that the european parliament today underestimates, as indeed do our national parliaments and national governments, the importance of education and culture. we are always bottom of the pile. they say that ‘the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world’. i think – and this is just my personal point of view – greece was the cradle of european civilisation. one or two englishmen – lord byron and others – did a certain amount of things. perhaps commissioner borg from malta, the country of the george cross, could answer this question: why can we not spend a little more money on supporting the future of our culture of our civilisation? we spend i do not know how many million billion euro on this, that and the other; please – music, poetry, history, harmony. give us a chance.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, foreign affairs demands diplomacy and principle, and this report on a new eu-russia agreement provides both. my group commends its content and congratulates janusz onyszkiewicz on his work. history teaches us that nothing riles the russians more than turning our backs to them, so it is in the interests of both russia and the european union to communicate, cooperate and trade in ways that build trust. equally, it is dishonest to pretend that russia’s conduct is beyond reproach. this is a country that uses energy supplies as a weapon, a country whose cavalier conduct in the caucasus and the baltics sets its neighbours’ nerves on edge, and a country where the rule of law flexes and bends to accommodate those in favour with the kremlin, and turns the screws on those who are not, as today’s new trial against mikhail khodorkovsky confirms. elections, as we know, are no exception. physical abuse, the intimidation of human rights advocates, the murder of independent journalists – mr tabajdi, these are the realities of russia today. (applause)we are saddened that some members have set their sights on watering down criticism of russia’s human rights record. i am surprised at the insistence of some on defining the new agreement as strategic, simply because moscow wants it. yes, we should build bridges, but we must not be uncritical of things that are unspeakable. there are three reasons to explain why some are prone to pander to mr putin. first, there are those who once sympathised with the soviets and whose sentimental attachment to the kremlin continues. second, there are those who think that russia is somehow different from other countries and the same standards cannot apply and, third, there are those who think that russia is just too scary to scorn. none of these arguments holds water. europe’s hard left has a history of wilful ignorance about human rights in the soviet era. it is not only morally wrong, but politically muddle-headed for them to make excuses for russia now that she is moving towards the authoritarian right. moreover, human rights are universal and indivisible, or they mean nothing; so the union should have the confidence to defend our values within our borders and outwith them. lastly, europe today has a population three and a half times the size of russia’s. we have military spending that is ten times bigger, and an economy fifteen times the size. we have no reason to cower from the kremlin, and every reason to stand up for our values. we therefore support a new agreement, but let europe enter that relationship united, strong and with its eyes open.
madam president, last month, on behalf of parliament, i went to the administrative borderline in georgia, established by the south ossetian separatists following the russian military invasion. looking at the checkpoint, where there was no formal communication on either side, it certainly did look like a scene from the cold war. if we are not to move backwards, one concrete step the russians could take is to help instigate full access for the very successful european police mission to both sides of the line so that they can properly fulfil their ceasefire monitoring duties. it would be a small but concrete step to build confidence, and i call on them to do so. i also share the view expressed by many in this parliament that, the more european solidarity we have, the better europe-russia relations will be. this fact was underlined again this week by russia’s attempt to get separate, not common, agreements with eu countries on the import standards for fruit and vegetables. in this respect, i regret the speech today by the leader of the liberal democrats that sought to paint the socialist position as soft on human rights. not only will we vote to criticise russia for breaching international election standards, for undermining freedom of expression, for the incarceration of political prisoners and for the intimidation and harassment of human rights defenders, but the speech simply demonstrates the very same point-scoring on russia, which is itself an example of the lack of solidarity which holds us back. russia is affected by the economic crisis – like every country – suffering from the plummeting oil price, with a one-third devaluation of the rouble and a 75% drop in their stock market. today president medvedev is playing a full part in the g20 meeting in london. i believe that now the time is right, when russia does need our cooperation and may be more open to change, if only we have the determination and the unity in the european union to pursue it.
madam president, how can mrs ferrero-waldner refer to russia as a partner and mr vondra seek assurances on democracy and human rights? russia is a gangster state where troublesome political opponents, dissenters and journalists are simply murdered. the russians even have a law that allows them to murder anyone – russian citizen or foreign national – on foreign soil whom they deem to be a threat or a nuisance. such a murder was carried out on my constituent alexander litvinenko in london in 2006 in an act of state-sponsored terrorism. his family are still waiting for justice to be done and his murderers brought to justice or trial in england. personally i do not want the european union to negotiate agreements with anyone on anything. but, if the commission is serious, why did it not request the extradition of the suspects as a sign of goodwill and a precondition for opening negotiations?
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, as we all know and can read every day, the arctic is gaining in importance, and it deserves greater attention from the union as well. this was brought out in the resolution parliament adopted in october. i welcome the opportunity this afternoon to address this issue, which i know is of particular concern for you. only three eu member states have territories within the arctic region. nevertheless, the effects of climate change and of human activities in the arctic region extend far beyond the arctic itself. what happens in the arctic has significant implications for the eu as a whole. so far, issues with an arctic dimension have tended to be addressed by the union within the context of sectoral policies such as the maritime policy or the fight against climate change. although cooperation within the framework of the new northern dimension covers european arctic areas, the union has not developed a broad arctic policy bringing together all the relevant individual policy areas. this is now changing. in march last year, high representative solana and commissioner ferrero-waldner submitted to the european council a joint report on climate change and international security. this report highlighted the new strategic interest in the arctic region. it drew attention to the far-reaching implications of environmental change for the arctic and it recognised that these could have consequences for international stability and for european security interests. the report called for the development of a specific eu arctic policy based on the growing geostrategic importance of the region and taking into account issues such as access to natural resources and the possible opening-up of new trade routes. the commission subsequently presented a communication on the eu and the arctic region last november. this took up the various strategic challenges of the region and proposed concrete actions in three main areas: the protection and preservation of the arctic in cooperation with the population; the sustainable use of resources; and strengthening multilateral governance of the arctic. this last point was covered in last october’s resolution. in its communication, the commission specifically proposed, as one of its policy objectives, that the eu should work to uphold the further development of a cooperative arctic governance system based on the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos), and advocated the full implementation of all existing obligations, rather than proposing new legal instruments. this is one of the key elements in the communication. in its conclusion last december, the council gave a clear welcome to the communication and considered that it constituted the first layer of a future eu arctic policy. the council agreed with the commission that the eu should aim to preserve the arctic in cooperation with its population and that it should address arctic challenges in a systematic and coordinated manner. it considered that the goals of the eu could only be achieved in close cooperation with all arctic partner countries, territories and communities, and also noted the intergovernmental cooperation in the region. it also welcomed the commission’s intention to apply for permanent observer status to represent the european community on the arctic council. the council specifically stressed the importance of multilateral cooperation in conformity with the relevant international conventions and highlighted, in particular, the unclos. in line with the commission communication, it did not express any support for the specific idea of an international treaty. on the basis of this position, the council is now taking forward work on the details of the proposal for action set out in the commission communication. i hope it is clear from what i have said today that the council is taking this issue very seriously. we fully recognise the growing strategic importance of the arctic region. we agree that the union should have a comprehensive and coherent policy. the council will certainly keep this parliament fully informed about further developments and is grateful for your continuing interest in this subject.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank parliament for its interest in the arctic and also say how much we appreciated your resolution on arctic governance last october. it gave political impetus to the commission’s own work on the communication that has already been mentioned, ‘the eu and the arctic region’, which was adopted last november. now, why is this so important? because we share your concern that the arctic region deserves international attention as never ever before. scientific evidence shows that climate change is occurring much faster in the arctic than in the rest of the world. in the past six years alone, the ice cap has lost up to half its thickness near the north pole and may have passed a tipping point. that is a clear warning sign we would be foolish to ignore. the radical transformation of the arctic is having an impact on its people, its landscape and its wildlife – on land and at sea. therefore, now is the time to act. that is why we adopted the communication, which is the first step towards an eu policy for the arctic, laying the foundations for a more comprehensive approach. the communication focuses on three broad goals: protecting and preserving the arctic, in full cooperation with its inhabitants; promoting the sustainable use of resources; and beefing up multilateral governance. the proposals in the communication are the outcome of a very thorough analysis made by the commission. this involved consultations with all main arctic stakeholders, including both eu and non-eu arctic states. this was all the more necessary because many eu activities and key developments of global scope, such as the integrated maritime policy or climate change, have an effect on the arctic. so, based on these discussions and in light of the motion for a resolution tabled for discussion today, let me stress that the arctic region differs from the antarctic in a number of key aspects. unlike the antarctic, which is a vast, uninhabited continent surrounded by an ocean, the arctic is a maritime space, surrounded by inhabited land belonging to sovereign countries. so the idea of establishing a binding legal regime specifically designed for the arctic is, unfortunately, difficult, because none of the five arctic ocean coastal states – denmark, norway, canada, russia and the united states of america – is in favour of such a regime. i therefore fear that such a proposal would at this stage not only be ineffective but could prove to be detrimental to the eu’s role and credibility in overall arctic cooperation. rather than expending efforts on that cause, the eu’s interests and objectives are better served by building greater multilateral cooperation and making better use of the existing legal instruments. through the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos) and other general conventions, there is already an extensive international legal framework in place. the unclos is also the basis for settling disputes, including maritime delimitation. we want to see these conventions fully implemented and, very importantly, adapted to the arctic specificities. for example, we propose a regulatory framework for sustainable fisheries management where areas and species are not yet covered by other instruments. secondly, we will work closely with the international maritime organisation, developing and enforcing solid international standards for safer arctic navigation, respecting human safety and environmental sustainability. this means either extending existing legislation or adopting new legislation. thirdly, we will also defend the internationally recognised principles of freedom of navigation and the right of innocent passage. coastal states should avoid discriminatory steps concerning navigational rules. any measures will have to be applied in full compliance with the international law of the sea. fourthly, it is not realistic to propose an international moratorium on the extraction of arctic resources. the bulk of the estimated reserves of minerals, oil and gas are either on the sovereign territory of the arctic states or in their exclusive economic zones, and some of them have far-reaching plans for further exploration activities. however, we insist that the extraction and use of arctic resources must always adhere to the highest possible standards for the environment and sustainability. we share parliament’s concerns about the urgency of action in this region, and our communication puts forward a set of coherent and specific proposals. based on this, we look forward to continued cooperation with you as we develop an eu arctic policy. let us never lose sight of our common goal, and let us work together with the arctic states and the international community to find the best and most effective way of preserving and protecting the arctic for future generations.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this debate clearly follows on from our resolution last october on arctic governance. our group has no problem in supporting the wish for an arctic treaty, but more in the light of a quest for a new mode of governance. the treaty is perhaps more symbolic, but what we do insist upon is working with – and respecting – the nations and, more particularly, the peoples of the arctic. it is people, as you have already said, that distinguish the arctic from the antarctic. there are already international structures – the imo rules, the law of the sea – but there is a need for something more tailored and more specific. we should build on the work of the arctic council. commissioner, you should join it as soon as possible and you should help build its political capacity. at all costs, we have to avoid a retreat into old-style sovereignty, territorial claims and intergovernmentalism. a new style of governance is needed for this fragile area of our globe in which every citizen of the world feels they have an interest or a stake. we also have to prove our credentials for arctic involvement, and our record as europeans is not good. our sailors and traders devastated the arctic environment in the 17th and 18th centuries with the so-called ‘rape of spitsbergen’. it is our industrial emissions that have led directly to acute climate change in the region, and we now threaten to impose our values and our traditions on the peoples of the arctic at this very sensitive moment. we have to listen to them and work with them because, quite frankly, their record of protecting their environment is better than ours. our group will not therefore support the 50-year moratorium.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i live on a lovely island – a beautiful island – which has been systematically destroyed by the european union over the last 15 years. i have seen the european union landfill directive, which has had industrial waste – laughingly called ‘compost’ – thrown upon the land. i have seen hundreds of thousands of fish dumped in the north sea. near my own village, i have seen what used to be wonderful fields of wheat and barley and dairy cattle being turned over to things like miscanthus and all sorts of other biofuels, wrecking our environment and pushing up the cost of food. the european union wants us to meet our objectives of renewable energy. thirty-five thousand wind turbines the size of jumbo jets, the biggest desecration of my beautiful island since the industrial revolution. and now you are looking for a remit over one of the last wildernesses in the world, the arctic. well, mr president, colleagues, let me tell you that i agree with mrs wallis. your record is appalling and the answer has got to be, for goodness’ sake, keep your nose out of this.
mr president, the antarctic treaty serves as a global shining example that territorial claims by littoral states can be set aside in the interests of peaceful cooperation and scientific research. as the world confronts the issue of global warming impacting on the melting of the two caps and causing rising sea levels, and as frozen arctic maritime passages re-open to navigation, it is important that an analogous arrangement be found for the frozen – or should i say thawing – north of the arctic. the scramble for sovereign claims and arctic mineral resources, as evidenced by the melodramatic planting of the russian flag on the sea bed, must be rejected. the eu should try and convince the five arctic littoral states – the united states, canada, russia, norway and denmark – of the wisdom of such an approach.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for all the hard work which she has put into this report and the close cooperation that we have had on this. we have worked very closely together, not just on this report but – as she knows – along with other people, we have both been working on this issue for many years now, for the 10 years since i came into the european parliament. i remember that we sat together on article 13 hearings all that time ago. now – eventually – we have got to the situation where we are debating an anti-discrimination directive, a possibility at long last that we might push through anti-discrimination legislation on all grounds not covered – disability, age, religion or belief, and sexual orientation. we have waited many years for this. let us just hope that we get that large majority. i have campaigned on disability and age for many years, but i was convinced quite some time ago that we could not leave anybody behind. we could not just go forward with a disability directive, and then an age directive, because i thought sexual orientation and religion would be left behind. that is why, in the own-initiative report last year, i asked for a single directive to cover all areas that were not yet covered. i am delighted that has happened. i am also very pleased we got such a large majority in parliament for that own-initiative report. i know from the commission and council that this was one of the reasons they thought it was safe to bring this proposal forward. that is why we have to get a very large majority for this report tomorrow. i would also like to say a very great thank you to commissioner špidla. i have thanked him at other times, but i wanted to thank him in the plenary because, without his support and help, i honestly do not believe that we would have this proposal on the table at present. so, commissioner, a sincere thank you from a lot of us, for pushing this forward. i know you have been doing a lot of work on this yourself. we got it through the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. we now need that large majority. everyone should be treated equally across the eu. a wheelchair user or a guide-dog user should have free access anywhere within the european union. somebody of a different sexual orientation should be allowed to use any hotel room that they want to, and stay at any hotel when they go on holiday. all older people should have the right to have access to health care, whatever their age. people of a different religion should not be discriminated against. i urge all of you who are thinking of voting against this: please do not. this is the bedrock of the european union. we were founded on human rights and anti-discrimination. please vote for it.
mr president, i will be voting against this report and this proposed directive for three reasons. first of all, i dissent from the belief that the eu, rather than national governments, should be legislating on these issues, believing every member state is best placed to decide if it needs to strengthen such legislation. if ever there was a subsidiarity issue, this should be it. my second reason is that the new offence of harassment has the alarming prospect of, in fact, curbing the rights in respect of freedom of speech and freedom of religion, particularly for those who proclaim a christian message. christians preaching the gospel, particularly in a public place to people of other faiths who take offence and who claim it is an assault on their dignity, could be breaching this law. likewise, defending and promoting a biblical approach to heterosexual marriage could allow litigious gay rights activists to claim harassment. the third reason is that the measures within the directive are disproportionate and inadequately balanced. it compels the christian printer, for example, to accept an order to print material which offends his religious beliefs, whereas he should be free to conduct his business according to his conscience. without essential balancing mechanisms, this directive will become an instrument which in fact creates discrimination. thus, to me, it is an unnecessary directive infringing basic rights, particularly of people of faith and conscience, and illustrates all that is over-reaching, meddling and wrong-headed within the eu.
mr president, it has been an interesting debate and it would be funny if it was not so tragic. most of the opposition i have heard this afternoon is, i think, sincerely felt and believed, but it is not based on the facts and it is not based on the text before us. nothing in this report undermines subsidiarity or proportionality. indeed, if it did, it would be corrected by the council of ministers. so i urge you, even now, to vote in favour and allow the council of ministers to do the right thing to make sure that it is absolutely proportionate and subsidiarity is respected. mr weber, europe was born out of the values of the second world war – a determination that we would never look away again whilst one group of individuals or other groups were targeted or made a scapegoat and led away to concentration camps and work camps. a determination that there would be no hierarchy of oppression. yet, sadly, you want to have a europe that is not based on those decent values, a europe that believes and respects that all human beings are born equal. those opposed to this have to answer to their conscience, to their religion and to their voters as to why you believe some people should be treated differently from others, that they should not have equality. i stand here fortunate, as a gay man – and if i chose to be gay, is it not interesting that one obviously therefore chooses to be heterosexual? – fighting for equality, not just for gay men and lesbians and bisexuals and transgender people, but for people on the basis of their age, their religion, their belief, their gender, anything that is perceived to be different that could be used to take equality away from them. i believe the litmus test of any civilised society is not how we treat a majority – which, interestingly, is made up of so many different minorities: the litmus test of any civilised society, as people listening in the visitors’ gallery will tell you, is not how we treat the majority, but how we treat the minorities, and, in that instance, some member states are sadly lacking. shakespeare said, rather brilliantly, ‘the evil that men do lives on, the good is oft interred with their bones’. look to yourself, imagine if it were you who was different – who had a different religion, a different belief, a different age, a different sexual orientation – would it be right that you should have your human rights taken away from you? the answer has to be ‘no’. now is the opportunity for the house to do that which is right and just and good.
mr president, it is clearly right that we end the complicated patchwork of laws, with different people protected against discrimination in different situations, in favour of a single equality regime. the woman refused a bank loan, the disabled person refused access to a building, the gay man refused accommodation, a black person barred from a club, and so on should all be protected on the basis of similar principles. i just want to mention two issues. one concerns protection from harassment. it is rightly made clear in the text that what is barred is the creation of an intimidating environment for an individual, not perceived offence towards a group. it is important to be very firm about the preservation of freedom of speech, which is usefully stressed through a specific mention which is added by the parliament. on faith schools, i fully support the right of parents to have their children educated within the principles of a particular faith, so long as that faith itself does not propagate discriminatory and prejudicial attitudes. but we must not condone the creation of ghettoes, where only children of a specified faith are admitted to a school and others are excluded. the commission text allows discriminatory access and i am not persuaded that amendment 51 resolves the problem. i will probably vote against both.
mr president, the chair of our committee, mr deprez, spoke for so many of us in this house when he said that this was not a report about sectional interests or a report of the left, but a report by kathalijne buitenweg which was full of thoughtfulness, sensitivity and compromise where people were concerned. the rapporteur has created a report which does not bind business or over-regulate business, as we have seen in the long journey of the two previous directives – the race equality directive and the employment directive – which, i would say to mr weber, has not bound or over-regulated businesses in germany or in my country. she has created a directive about fundamental rights, which do not create that bureaucracy which mr špidla spoke about. i tabled amendments on strengthening equality bodies, which already exist. in the united kingdom we have the equality and human rights commission, who recently supported the case of a european citizen – sharon coleman, the mother of a disabled child – who brought a case against her employer for disability discrimination by association, something fundamental to mrs buitenweg’s report. the european court of justice ruled in her favour and, as a result of this judgement, we have extended rights to britain’s carers – people who care for disabled people. i would say to people in this house that you will grow old, you may be disabled and you may care for somebody with a disability. that is the reality for tens of millions of european citizens. that is what this report is about. it is not about sectional interests or concerns about who is going to dominate one other section of society. i would say that this report is not left or right – it is about fundamental rights. as mr cashman said in his speech, people out there, before the european elections, will look to see whether we protected fundamental rights without doing anything bad to our businesses and our economy. that is what this report does. let us support it. it is practical and it is right.
mr president, as the shadow rapporteur on the committee on employment and social affairs, on behalf of the socialists, could i commend mrs buitenweg and also my colleague mrs bozkurt? thank you for your cooperation. on behalf the disability intergroup, i am delighted that the 1.3 million people who signed the petition calling for an extension of anti-discrimination rights to disabled people have had their call listened to. i am also delighted that we agreed across party lines that there should be a horizontal directive and there should be no hierarchy of discrimination – a promise made to us by the then portuguese presidency of the european union when the race directive was passed in 2000. frankly, this promise has taken too long to be realised. i condemn the conservatives who want to make that delay even longer. this debate is not just about showing our support in the parliament but is also about appealing to the council to get on and agree to this now. i would ask our german friends not to block it, please. there are issues about private contracts that you are concerned about, but on public duties you are far ahead of the game. let us actually raise our vision and get this agreed. i am delighted that today the future swedish presidency has committed itself to completing this in the epsco council before christmas. i hope very much you will be able to do that.
i scríbhinn. – tugann an treoir seo chun suntais an aithint an-tábhachtach nach rud é an leithcheal a tharlaíonn taobh istigh in áit oibre amháin. is é príomhsprioc mholadh an choimisiúin buan ná dul i ngleic le leithcheal atá bunaithe ar reiligiún nó ar chreideamh, ar mhíchumas, ar aois nó ar chlaonadh gnéasach agus an prionsabal a chur i bhfeidhm go gcaithfear go gcothrom le daoine taobh amuigh de thimpeallacht na fostaíochta. tá a fhios agam, de thairbhe mé ag déileáil le grúpaí cearta míchumais agus daoine le míchumas in éirinn, go gcuirfear fáilte mhór roimh an reachtaíocht seo. tá an iníon buitenweg go hiomlán ceart nuair a deir sí ina tuarascáil: "chun caitheamh go cothrom le gach duine le míchumas a ráthú, ní leor é leithcheal a thoirmeasc. tá gá le gníomh dearfach chomh maith maidir le bearta déanta roimh ré agus trí oiriúnuithe fóirsteanacha a thairiscint. "cuirim fáilte chomh maith roimh sheasamh láidir an rapporteur agus an choimisiúin chun leithcheal a thoirmeasc ar fhoras claonta ghnéasaigh. níl áit ar bith ag leithcheal den chineál seo i sochaí nua-aimseartha agus diúltaím na hiarrachtaí ag cuid grúpaí polaitiúla chun an reachtaíocht a lagú maidir leis seo.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh thuarascáil an uasail angelakas inniu. tugann an tuasal angelakas tacaíocht sa tuarascáil do thograí an choimisiúin eorpaigh chun ábhar cistithe a dhéanamh do na ballstáit ar fad ó chiste forbraíochta réigiúnaí na heorpa d’éifeachtacht fuinnimh agus d’fhuinneamh in-athnuaite maidir le cúrsaí tithíochta. táimid ag streachtailt le géarrchéim gheilleagrach. fágadh daoine atá ag obair i dtionscal na tógála – i mo thír féin, in éirinn, mar shampla – i gcruachás ar leith. tá súil agam go mbeimid in ann páirtmhaoiniú a chur ar fáil do chlár athchóirithe d’éifeachtacht fuinnimh de thairbhe chinneadh seo an ae. cuirfidh clár dá leithéid feabhas ar thionscal na tógála in éirinn – ó thuaidh agus ó dheas – rud a chuideoidh le poist a choiméad mar aon lenár ndualgais maidir leis an athrú aeráide a chomhlíonadh, agus mar a dúradh cheana féin sa díospóireacht seo maidir le dul in ngleic le bochtanas breosla. is é sin, cuidiú le daoine atá ag íoc céatadán ard dá gcuid ioncaim ar chostas breosla. i mo bharúil féin, is cuí gur dhírigh an coimisiún isteach ar thithíocht do dhaoine ar ioncam íseal mar sprioc don athrú seo sna critéir. is iad na daoine seo ar ioncam íseal a bheidh ag fulaingt den chuid is mó de réir mar a théann an geilleagar seo againne chun donais. ag an am céanna, ní bheidh sé ar cumas na ndaoine seo a dtithe a athchóiriú ar mhaithe le héifeachtacht fuinnimh gan chabhair airgidis. thiocfadh leis an scéim seo, mar sin de, dul i ngleic leis na hiarmhairtí ba mheasa den bhochtanas breosla atá ag cur go géar ar chuid mhór daoine – ach an scéim seo a úsáid i gceart. tá súil agam go dtapódh na húdárais áitiúla, réigiúnacha agus náisiúnta an deis seo agus nach séanfadh siad na hacmhainní ábharthacha atá acu cheana féin a sholáthar leis an togra a chur i gcrích.
mr president, the world economic downturn is hitting each of our countries and each of our regions. it is right that tonight we agree emergency action to speed up european funds to people in need, at a time of need. in particular, i welcome of the cutting of paperwork by allowing flat and lump-sum payments, allowing spending on energy efficiency in housing, bringing forward some gbp 6 billion of spending to start this year, and making it easier to work with the european investment bank loans. already, when a building society call centre in hertfordshire, in my constituency, shed jobs, within 24 hours we were able to call in european-funded response to redundancy aid, showing how europe can give real help to our local communities. with respect to the changes we are agreeing tonight, the east of england development agency is welcoming the fact that more business-led, bite-sized and bespoke training provision is to be allowed, and says it will help us more quickly to meet our region’s commitment to help 124 000 people through european social funding alone. finally, i was very proud that commissioner hübner came personally to lowestoft, in my constituency, to launch our gbp 100 million european regional development programme and its emphasis on helping business in our communities adapt to low-carbon growth. the economic crisis must not deflect any of us from meeting the long-term challenge of climate change. indeed, investment in environmental technologies in management should lead recovery efforts. the east of england intends to stand firm to this objective.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the good work that they have done on these reports, which i commend to the house. i think this support should be very warmly welcomed. if member states take this opportunity to use up the 4% of erdf funding to facilitate investment in energy efficiency in the housing sector, this will make a positive contribution both to our economies and to the environment. it is good to see a proposal such as this, which tackles problems of the economic crisis and the environment simultaneously, coming from the commission. the report is especially good news for many of the old member states, and i am glad to see that old eu member states will now be allowed to utilise a proportion of erdf funds for interventions which promote energy efficiency in the housing sector. i am glad to see that the criteria for eligibility have been widened and will not be limited to low-income housing. however, we must also be aware that this does not represent any increase in funding. it is now up to the national and regional authorities to make use of this opportunity to redirect the percentage of their erdf funds for funding towards these projects. this may entail reprioritising parts of their operational programmes. i feel that, in the long run, this will be well worth it.
madam president, time and time again discussion on energy efficiency has focused on the fact that much more could be achieved – and quickly – if only up-front funding was available. that is why it is so important to allow erdf funding to be spent on energy efficiency, not only in the eu-12 but also in the eu-15. despite considerable progress, the uk housing minister has admitted that only one per cent of the current housing stock is energy-efficient enough to prevent fuel poverty. in my own region, north-east england, 1 in 10 homes has been labelled a category one health hazard because they are so cold and draughty. so i welcome this change and urge all member states and regions to take full advantage of the new flexibility. in the interests of tackling climate change, fuel poverty, unemployment and energy security, and like mrs ţicău, i urge the commission to raise the current percentage limits considerably higher in due course, as the committee on industry, research and energy called for in its vote on the recast on tuesday.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs. looking at ways we can use european structural funds more effectively to help those affected by the global economic crisis is one of the many actions member states need to take to help those who lose their jobs get back into employment as quickly as possible. it is interesting that we are debating this subject on the eve of the g20. the g20 has the potential to start the process of creating global rules on finance, which we require to prevent such an economic calamity happening again. we need to make jobs and the social agenda key issues for the european elections. the 25 million people across the eu who will find themselves out of work by the end of the year should be the focus of our work in this house to get the economy moving again and help people back into work.
madam president, i wanted to inform parliament that on saturday a special memorial will be laid in zillhausen in germany to commemorate the lives of seven british servicemen who lost their lives in the second world war. their plane was shot down between 15 and 16 march 1944. they were part of 97 squadron based at raf bourn in cambridgeshire. their names were william meyer, bernard starie, reginald pike, thomas shaw, james mcleish, archibald barrowman and albert roberts, who will all be honoured on saturday. they made the ultimate sacrifice so that we can enjoy the freedoms that we often take for granted today, and their lives should never be forgotten. i wanted to put on record my thanks to the mayor of balingen, dr reitemann, and the local council for allowing the memorial to be laid in honour of the lives of these young men. i would also like to thank brett and luella langevad, who are paying for the memorial to be laid, and raf 9 squadron for sending two crews to the ceremony on saturday. on a personal note, james mcleish was my great-uncle, and representatives of my family will be present at the service.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to thank henrik lax for the exceptional work that he has undertaken. i am pleased to say that, on behalf of the socialist group, we will be supporting his report in its entirety. we are also pleased that we have achieved most of our objectives. i am also pleased that, working with you, henrik, you have shown the imagination that is absolutely necessary for a brilliant legislator, which is to put yourself in the position of the person seeking to use the service. that is the way you have approached this in its entirety. it is why you looked at the one-stop shop, the internet, the multi-entry visas and the reduction on visas for people under 25 – i only wish i could avail myself of that privilege – and approached it by asking how we can make this work for the citizen. this is a brilliant example for the rest of the house. we often approach things by putting forward amendments, which may improve the text and may have coherence, but does it serve the citizen? that has always been your approach. i am pleased to say that we have the multiple-entry visas. we also have the whole issue of appeal. i worked with – to name a member of the dg – jan on this very important principle, namely that, if you are refused a visa, or you are refused entry into the schengen area, your appeal may not be suspensive, but the authority that refuses must make itself accountable. i wish to thank the rapporteur once again, and to thank the commission for making sure that we have that principle enshrined here. i have nothing more to say other than to thank my staff and to thank your staff – and particularly renaud, who is in the public gallery. without our staff, we could never do the job that we do so well. it has been a brilliant three-year love affair and, like most short-term love affairs, i am pleased to see it coming to an end.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my regulation on biometric visas is now being incorporated in this new visa code, so i feel i have a little bit of ownership of it. it will work with the visa information system, for which i was the rapporteur. the whole result not only improves the security of visas, but, as others have said, also convenience for visa applicants. that was mr cashman’s aim for the borders code. so i feel that meps have delivered on those two aims. i hope that biometrics improving the reliability of the link between the applicant and the document will mean that fewer people get turned away unjustifiably. mr lax has worked strongly, as mr cashman said, on improving service for applicants, and thus the image of the eu. ninety-nine point nine per cent of people who want to come to the eu want to do so for trade, travel and tourism, and we want them to, as it is good for business, but, if they get a poor service and are handled badly, then they will not feel warmly about the eu. mr lax has done a great job.
rapporteur. − mr president, like mr tatarella, i would like to begin by thanking the people closely involved with helping us reach first-reading agreement today on the emas report. i would like to thank the shadows, who are here today, the commission, who have been very helpful in getting agreement, and to the czech presidency, who are not here to hear my thanks. thanks also go to the staff in parliament and the groups, and to my own assistant, elizabeth, who played a big role in making sure we were here today. it all went very fast, from the time we started discussing it to today, so we now have agreement before the election. emas is a voluntary scheme, which provides a framework to assist businesses and organisations to improve their environmental performance. it started 14 years ago and has had some modest success with about 4 000 participants – which, if you think about it, is not such a huge number in the overall european union. the commission set a target of increasing that to 35 000 participants. that is a very ambitious target. it is almost a 10-fold increase. i think it is right that we should try and improve the take-up of emas, because otherwise its impact is going to remain limited. but if we are to increase the impact, we also have to retain the environmental integrity of the programme. i think the agreement we reached today does achieve that balance between, hopefully, making it more attractive to people, while at the same time retaining the environmental integrity. we have made some changes which we have agreed with the commission, and i think they are important. firstly, corporate registration, so that a company or organisation with more than one site can actually register once in one country, which is very important. this parliament had to register three times – in luxembourg, france and belgium – in order to get emas. from what i hear from the staff, it was not an easy thing to do. so that kind of change is important. also, cluster registration for organisations involved in the same sector; reduced fees, and lighter reporting requirements for smes – i think emas is a bit too burdensome for small organisations, so it does need to change – and better alignment with iso 14001. particularly important to me is the introduction of sectoral support documents. i think the commission is going to work very hard at this, and this will help organisations to benchmark themselves against similar organisations. core indicators will also be introduced. these are very important to improve the programme and help people on the outside look at organisations and see how they are doing. i do hope these will encourage people to take part in emas, not because i want to play a numbers game and see emas competing with iso, but because i think the scheme is a good one and could help us to meet our sustainability criteria. today the eyes of the world are very much on london, where world leaders are gathered to talk about the financial downturn and the global banking crisis. there will be some, no doubt, who are wondering why we are sitting here talking about environmental auditing at a time when organisations and companies are feeling the financial strain. they will see this kind of initiative by the commission as a distraction. but i think that is wrong. for me and my socialist colleagues, the green agenda is very much part of the solution to emerging from the financial crisis that we are in. we need to invest in energy and renewables, and we need to be cutting our environmental footprint. although emas is a very modest programme in the big scheme about climate change which the commissioner has worked so hard on, i think it nevertheless plays a role in helping the european union and the rest of the world to cut our environmental footprint.
mr president, can i support my colleague, linda mcavan, and congratulate the members of the committee on the environment for bringing forward this report? as parliament’s rapporteur on corporate social responsibility i wanted to make a contribution to this debate by putting the debate on ecolabelling and emas, in terms of reporting by companies, into the wider context of what we are trying to do on corporate responsibility and accountability, and in particular to address the issue of whether voluntary schemes, as against statutory schemes, are the right way forward and whether we should have europe-focused schemes or a global approach. the problem from a corporate responsibility point of view is that a proliferation of voluntary schemes can be more costly and less clear, and can actually lead to competition that is wasteful for businesses, consumers and, indeed, for all stakeholders. there is, of course, a temptation for some companies to use the least onerous and least costly – but also least effective – tool. the problem of voluntarism may also be that it is just not going to be enough in terms of climate change today. i was struck, when the climate change bill went through the domestic parliament in my own member state, the united kingdom, by how the british employers’ federation, the cbi, actually said it wanted binding statutory reporting on climate change by business. given what we are saying in the european union about what needs to happen on climate change, the question is whether voluntarism will be enough, even with the changes we are agreeing in this report. lastly, the issue of global versus european. there are 4 000 companies in emas and 35 000 in iso 14001. is this because iso is less onerous, or is it because our companies work in global – and not just european – markets and want a global approach? i invite the commission not simply to promote and apply emas, which i want to be successful, but also to look outward to establishing and strengthening global initiatives on carbon emission reporting by companies and other aspects of corporate responsibility, so that we get strong global mechanisms and that we then can apply and promote them on our own continent. let us try both tracks.
thank you, mr rack. your visitors will know that they are well represented.
rapporteur. − madam president, i just want to pick up on what avril doyle spoke about when she said we have a plethora of initiatives and labels which are ethical and sustainability labels, to say that i think the commission needs to look at this to make sure that people are not being misled. the commissioner just spoke about the fisheries labelling and making sure people know what they are buying. with a different hat i have been involved in fair trade and protecting the fair trade label, and what we have seen in recent years is alternative labels being developed. some are ok, but some are attempting to look as if they are ethical labelling, look as if they are fair trade, but they are attempting to be fair trade on the cheap, without having the independent verification which you need to have a proper labelling system. so i hope that the commission will make sure that all these systems of labelling and ethical labelling do continue to have some integrity and are not undermined to simply become marketing tools of organisations who want to make the public think they are being green and ethical when in fact they are nothing but fig leaves. so i hope that can be looked at by the commission, and it does need a cross-departmental look from the commission. every time i talk about this i get told, ‘oh it’s not us, it’s the other department’, and each one seems to offload the burden onto the other. finally, just to thank everybody again for their contributions. i look forward to the vote, which i hope will be a very simple, straightforward one.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.00 today. written statements (rule 142)
mr president, could i say on behalf of the alde group that we would support mrs doyle’s proposition? i think it has much merit. the house had a resolution on this issue in october of last year. to a certain extent we are repeating what we said then, but we are also saying some things that are rather stronger and, as mrs doyle said, they come at a critical moment when most of us in this house would want to see the eu take up a seat on the arctic council, and we would not wish to compromise that. it would be much better to refer this back to committee and have a full and considered report in the new mandate.
mr president, i am very privileged this morning to be sitting next to mr daniel hannan, my very good colleague, whose speech a few weeks ago has revolutionised the transmission of information and political thought and will change it for the future. the power of the internet is supremely important, but is even more important over the regular media. i voted against this report for one simple reason, which is that i am not in favour of promoting european citizenship. i am a british citizen and am proud to be so, and what we should be about is promoting the individual citizenship of our individual countries and saying, yes, we are members of the european union as countries, but we are not european citizens. we are citizens of the countries which gave us our birth and infant nurture, which protect us and which have given many of us sanctuary over the years. that is the pride which i have and will continue to have in the years to come.
mr president, citizenship defines who we are. it is the bedrock of our identity. i am a british citizen and i am proud of that, not least because of the vicious campaign of the ira to try and coerce me and my constituents out of that citizenship – something which, thankfully, they have failed to do. citizenship lies in member states. it should not be diverted and it should not be shared. thus i reject this contrivance of european citizenship, which of course is a complement to the ongoing efforts to be advanced by the lisbon treaty to build the statehood of the eu and thus this notion that we all have to be, whether we like it or not, want it or not, eu citizens first and foremost. i reject that philosophy as i reject the lisbon treaty.
mr president, this is becoming a bit of a familiar refrain, to agree with my colleagues. i voted against this report because, of course, i also completely reject the whole concept of european citizenship. i believe that citizenship is unique to nation states, and i believe that all of the efforts that are behind this attempt to construct a european citizenship are related to the same attempts to conduct a european superstate. many of my constituents and myself are also unhappy about being forced to become, effectively, european citizens. they see citizenship as something to be affirmed or rejected, based on a common set of values and ideals built up over the centuries. none of us have been given any say, any referendum or any consultation whatsoever on whether we wish or do not wish to become european citizens. of course there should be a referendum on the lisbon treaty. but we should also be asked whether we wish to be european citizens in addition to our nation citizenship. we have no right to renounce european citizenship, even if we completely reject – as i do – the whole concept of such a thing.
mr president, may i concur with the last speaker. some of our colleagues seem to have a very narrow, unidimensional, view of citizenship and, indeed, of identity. yet we are all multifaceted: i support england in football, because i am english and that is part of my identity; i support britain at the olympic games in athletics, because that is a wider dimension to my identity; and i support the european golf team in the ryder cup against the united states – and i suspect that even the honorable member who made the remarks just now does too. these are different dimensions to our identity and our citizenship. they are not contradictory but complementary. of course, no citizenship of that kind has been attributed by referendum. there was never a referendum for me to be english or to have british citizenship – which has been changed from being a subject – nor has there been a referendum on the treaties which, nearly two decades ago, created the notion of european citizenship, linking it specifically to certain rights that we have and that we enjoy throughout europe, nothing more and nothing less.
mr president, i supported this report because i believe it continues the crucial work done by this house in linking our commitment to the environment to our need to deliver member states out of the current financial crisis. but also, because every aspect of our economy and society is affected, we need to take a holistic approach to economic and environmental recovery. i worked in housing for 18 years and i am concerned that sufficient attention has not been paid to housing and energy, especially at construction time, as housing contributes significantly to carbon emissions. focusing on cohesion policy is a sensible way for us to fulfil our obligation to communities and economies. change, as much else, begins at home. using the european development fund monies to complement regional and local authorities’ schemes for double glazing, insulation and solar panels or for replacing old boilers for more energy-efficient ones is an excellent example of how the european union can help member states to meet targets which will be of benefit to all european citizens.
mr president, when i saw the title of the report, ‘investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy for housing’, i was impressed. no one could disagree with that in these times of concern over climate change, whatever one thinks about that. we all agree that there should be better energy efficiency and better energy conservation. but surely the european parliament should be setting an example. how can we talk about energy efficiency, how can we talk about conservation, when we continue to have three european parliament buildings? we have a building in strasbourg that is only used for 12 weeks in the year and continues to emit co2 and waste energy when we are not there, an office building in luxembourg that members never visit (and we are now building another building in luxembourg) and we have this chamber here in brussels. it is time to stop the hypocrisy on energy efficiency, to lead by example and to only have one parliament building.
mr president, once again, i voted in favour of this report because i believe, if we are to make strides in fighting climate change, we need to make choosing green products easier for the consumer. although my region – the west midlands – is one of the only landlocked areas of the uk, we are, of course, consumers of fish and fish products, which this report refers to. by introducing a voluntary scheme such as ecolabels, we can encourage a market in more energy-efficient and ecologically kinder goods. this will fit in with other market-based solutions to climate change, such as tax reductions on eco-friendly goods. my constituents tell me that they are happy to make different choices if buying them and buying green products makes it easier for them. we will need to publicise the scheme better if it is to have the desired effect, and it will require better marketing but also standardisation and harmonisation of the information it displays if it is to be of real use to consumers. a good model is the report on energy efficiency of tyres, which i have been working on and which presents similar details in a clear, concise manner.
mr president, i abstained on this matter for two reasons. first of all, we all accept some discrimination. in all our countries we have religious schools – catholic, protestant, muslim, jewish – and there is an element of discrimination in those schools because the people who are primarily accepted there are of that faith. i support that. i support faith schools. but the principal reason why i abstained was because this turns the whole principle of jurisprudence upside down. we are innocent until we are proved guilty. that is a cardinal principle, certainly of english law, and i dare say of law in many other european union countries. this turns the burden of proof the other way round, and that, frankly, is unacceptable. of course we are all against discrimination. we are all in favour of equal treatment, but we have to recognise that the principles of law which have guided us throughout the ages remain in place. that is why i abstained.
mr president, in the 27 countries of the european union we have a proud tradition, developed over the last decades, of fighting together against discrimination, and of making discrimination illegal and something to be discouraged. what this report does is to correct an anomaly. we have legislation on our statute book which rightly prohibits discrimination on grounds of race and gender in the workplace and elsewhere, but discrimination on grounds of disability or age or sexual orientation is prohibited only in the workplace but not elsewhere – not in consumer protection and not in other situations which citizens can find themselves in and being discriminated against. it is right that we correct that anomaly. the large majority today sends a powerful signal to the council, and i look forward to adoption in the near future.
mr president, this report rests on a conceptual misunderstanding. outside this chamber, equality means the right of people to be treated the same. here in this chamber, we are using it to mean the right of people to be treated differently. that is a critical point. anti-discrimination legislation of this kind is not a refinement of the principle of equality under the law. it is an opposing principle. when we pass such reports as this, we take power away from people that one can vote for – and vote against – and give it arbitrarily to jurists. if this report were applied literally, it would prohibit an opera company from declining to hire men in soprano roles, it would prohibit a labour politician from declining to have a conservative as their press spokesman, and it would prohibit a catholic school or hospital from preferring to employ its own co-religionists. when i made these points, the answer from the report’s supporters was that it would not be used that way, and that everyone knows what it really means. i have to say that it strikes me as very bad jurisprudence to criminalise everything in theory and then rely on the courts arbitrarily to disapply the law.
mr president, i was delighted to support this report because i have always fought against all types of discrimination. i think it is vital that we have a framework to prevent exploitation of people because of their religion, age, disability, education or marital status. without protection against discrimination on these grounds, our ambitions for a social europe will be meaningless. this will particularly be the case during the current economic situation. there is always a temptation during these difficult times to exploit those who are less able to defend themselves, to cut corners when it comes to regulation designed precisely to protect against such exploitation. in my constituency, the west midlands, we are threatened with the rise of far-right politics. i believe europe has a key role to play in ensuring people know they are protected in the face of aggression and exploitation.
mr president, i voted against this report for the fundamental reason that i believe these subjects have nothing at all to do with the european union. i do not believe there is any need for european legislation in these matters. i think very sensitive, traditional matters such as this are much better handled at member state level, where individual national parliaments can take account of the fundamental culture, traditions and legal systems that are in their own particular countries. a number of other members have raised issues about the particular problems that will be caused by this – the problems for religious groups being forced to employ somebody from a different religious base, the problem in faith schools, and the problem of different political parties wanting to employ people of their own beliefs and values. essentially, the fundamental problem with this is that it takes power away from us, as elected politicians or national politicians, and puts it in the hands of unelected judges to interpret and re-interpret the legislation in ways that were never envisaged at all by the very well-meaning sentiments of some of the authors of this report. but i believe that, fundamentally, we are opening a huge can of worms.
mr president, this resolution recalls the horrors of fascism and of soviet communism. no european, no child of western civilisation, no civilised human being could disagree. but it then goes on to posit the european union as an alternative or antidote to such totalitarianism. it reads: ‘the european union has a particular responsibility to promote and safeguard democracy, both inside and outside the european union’. it is here, my friends, that you make your bloomer. the european union is not safeguarding democracy, either internally or externally. abroad it is doing business with castro’s cuba, with the ayatollahs in tehran; it is demanding the right to sell arms to communist china. at home it is striking down referendum results when they go against closer integration. now of course, one has to be careful making such parallels. no one is arguing that the european union is a soviet system that takes away people’s passports or runs gulags or operates show trials. but it should deeply worry us when any system claims that the ruling ideology is too important to be subjected to the ballot box.
mr president, thank you for giving me this opportunity to explain how i voted on this issue. there were two interesting sentences in the report that merit further attention. the first recognised that communism and nazism have a common legacy and called for an honest and thorough debate to be conducted on all the totalitarian crimes of the past century. the other sentence which stuck out was ‘calls for a pan-european public academic debate on the nature, history and legacy of totalitarian regimes on the basis of an international legal framework’. i really wonder whether there is need for such a debate. it is quite clear what the common thread is between soviet socialism and national socialism. the clue is in the phrase, and the answer is ‘socialism’. when socialist mps try to ban an mep from chairing the first session of the next parliament, no matter how vile his views are, that is an attack on free speech. when the british socialist government refuses to honour its manifesto commitment to hold a referendum on the lisbon treaty, that is an act of intolerance we should be careful it is not the first step towards totalitarianism.
mr president has this house no sense of self-awareness? we pass a resolution condemning totalitarianism and then, seconds later, we pass a resolution calling on brussels to fund cultural policy in the regions. my friends, culture cannot be created by bureaucratic fiat. it grows organically; it develops naturally within a people and, in its way, this report precisely demonstrates the structural flaw at the heart of the european project. the brussels institutions are not rooted in any nation, in any demos, in any cultural unit. but rather than accepting that and trying to suit our institutions to public opinion, we attempt to suit public opinion to our pre-existing institutions. if we really want to win our publics over, we cannot do it by subsidising folk dancing. the way of doing it is by treating their opinions with respect and that means – as you see i have not yet said it today – putting the lisbon treaty to a vote. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, thank you very much indeed for calling me, and i apologise for being missing when you called me earlier. it is kind of you to bring me on now. i just want to use the opportunity of this vote, in which i voted in favour, to express a warning about the rising power of the soviet union and the atmosphere in that country. we all had high hopes when communism fell, but in parts of the former soviet union, and particularly in russia, there is now an atmosphere of fear, an atmosphere of nationalism – an atmosphere that is, i am afraid, unacceptable. although the european union has to have relations with the russian government, we must remind that government at all times that we demand that the democratic state and the democratic ethos should always prevail, and that attempts to censor views that are not acceptable to the government, or to put politicians under unfair pressure, will not be acceptable to the european union. that is something we should make clear at all times.
in writing. − i abstained on this report as a response to our christian democrat and conservative colleagues blocking the oral amendment that would have made it clear that a right to education extends to all migrant children whether or not their parents are in the union legally or not. the notion that we punish children for the sins of the parents is one we rightly oppose around the world, but apparently it is now ok within europe. i can only admire the opportunistic hypocrisy of my tory colleagues.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues are supportive of a number of the suggestions in this report, including training of teachers and pupils learning the languages of the host country. however, we believe that education policy is and should remain a member state competence, and that any improvements and measures with regard to the education of children of migrants should be developed by member states themselves. for these reasons, we have abstained on this report.
in writing. − i supported the vălean report on eu citizens' rights. the right of eu citizens and their families to move and reside across the unions relates to the fundamental freedoms and it is essential that all member states apply the law without discrimination. speaking as a representative of scotland i know that the eu has offered countless opportunities for scots abroad, whilst scotland has welcomed many newcomers who have played a valuable role in our economic and cultural lives. at this time of economic crisis it is essential that the benefits of free movement are recognised and that economic hardship is not used as an excuse for discrimination.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues can agree with much of this report and abhor discrimination in all its forms and are wholeheartedly supportive of providing equal opportunities for people regardless of their disability, race, religion, or sexuality. however, we do have serious misgivings on the issue of the reversal of the burden of proof from the plaintiff to the accused. uk conservatives believe that in prima facie cases of discrimination and under the british legal system it must remain up to the plaintiff to supply conclusive evidence of such cases of discrimination. that is why we have decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. − this parliament has played a key role in promoting equal treatment of people across the union on grounds of sex, race, religion, belief, disability, age and sexual orientation. i therefore welcome this report, which urges a further strengthening of provisions to enforce such equality. my only reservation is with regard to amendment 39, part of which argues that freedom of speech should not be compromised, even in cases of harassment. we rightly have restrictions on freedom of speech covered by the laws of libel and slander. equally you cannot with impunity shout ‘fire’ in a cinema. on that basis i have to vote against this particular amendment with the threat it would pose to minorities.
in writing. − i congratulate my colleague ms buitenweg in gaining majority support for her report in this house. discrimination on the basis of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation has no place in european society. it is right that legal protection is extended beyond the labour market and this proposed directive will be a valuable tool in the fight against intolerance.
in writing. − while i am in favour of the maximum objectivity in analysing europe’s history, and while i recognise the horrific nature of the crimes of stalinist russia, i am afraid that this resolution has elements of a historical revisionism that flies in the face of a demand for objective analysis. i am not willing to equate the crimes of the nazis, the holocaust and the genocide that saw six million jews, along with communists, trade unionists and disabled die, with those of stalinist russia. this political relativism threatens to dilute the unique nature of the nazi crimes, and in doing so provides an intellectual underpinning to the ideologies of today’s neo-nazis and fascists, some of whom are with us here today.
in writing. − for many across the eu and indeed wider europe, the consequences of totalitarianism, with its millions of deaths, is a crucial historical point. it has helped to form many minds of later generations, but for those who lived during this period of time it represents a terrible scar in european development. extremism is still a current threat and these extremists have an unwitting friend in the ballot box – lethargy. as politicians, awareness of the danger to our freedoms and our very lives is something we must all strive to remind current and future generations. this is why i can support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − russia remains an important strategic partner for the eu. we have common interests like fighting nuclear proliferation and building peace in the middle east. russia also has an important diplomatic role, not only as a permanent member of the un security council but as a major influence on iran. we therefore need russia’s help to persuade iran not to build nuclear bomb. there are, however, areas of concern about our relationship with russia: and if we share common interests, i am not convinced that we share common values. the state of democracy and the rule of law in russia remains of concern. the freedom of the press is also not of the standard that we would expect. our partnership with russia must therefore be strong and durable, but it cannot be unconditional. in particular russia needs to know that we will not tolerate the annexation and recognition of the sovereign georgian territories seized in last summer’s war.
in writing. − russia has to make up its mind: does it aspire to the eu’s common values or not? there are many areas of agreement with russia, which all said and done is our strategic partner. we acknowledge the common threat of nuclear proliferation, particularly from iran. we need russia’s help as part of the quartet to work towards a peaceful resolution of the middle east conflict with a new pm of israel and us president in place. however we cannot allow russia to bully its neighbours and use its hydrocarbon resources as a diplomatic weapon. similarly, we cannot allow russia simply to behave as if last summer’s war in georgia did not happen. the annexation of sovereign georgian territory cannot be brushed under the carpet, either by russia or the eu. lastly russia must observe its binding osce/council of europe commitments to upholding human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. − i support this report which calls for further research to be carried out on electromagnetic fields emitted from devices such as radios, tvs, microwaves, mobile phones and high-voltage power lines. the report recommends that schools, crèches, retirement homes and hospitals should be kept away from mobile phone antennas or high-voltage power lines by a specific distance to be determined by scientific criteria.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the schmitt report on better schools. the report rightly notes that the provision of school education is a member state competence and i believe it is correct that individual nations' education systems are given autonomy and respect. nonetheless, the educational experience of children across the eu can only be enhanced by greater european cooperation and education systems across the continent must adapt to keep up with modern challenges.
mr president, we did have a brief discussion about this when we voted during the last plenary session. the problem is this: when we had the debate with the commission and council, it became clear to many of us in the house that it was not appropriate for us to vote on the resolution, and we therefore asked for it, at that stage, to be postponed. i think our view now is that there is no need for a resolution. parliament expressed itself on this subject a couple of months ago; that is absolutely sufficient; there is no need to do it again at this stage. the debate that we had with the other institutions was valuable, but there is no need for a resolution.
mr president, i draw the attention of this house to the impact of the unlawful blockade of the cross-channel ports of calais, boulogne and dunkirk by members of the french fishing industry last week. this industrial action brought very serious disruptions to flows of freight through this vital trans-european route. it adds enormous cost and delay to industry and severely disrupts and inconveniences the lives of people living in the south east of england. this has been a frequently recurring problem, and i ask of the commission that they use their powers to intervene to ensure that this interruption to the free movement of goods and people within the european union is brought under control. furthermore, i ask of the commission: is, in their view, the award of eur 4 million to the fishermen by the french government state aid, and would it therefore be anti-competitive and unlawful within the rules of the common fisheries policy?
mr president, if one of our constituents fraudulently claims welfare benefits, they will be prosecuted and could go to prison. sometimes things seem different here. newspapers reported publicly last november that one of our members, den dover, had paid expenses worth gbp 750 000 intended for the employment of staff to a company owned by his wife and daughter and had used some of this money for the purchase of expensive cars and for other matters of personal gain. most people regard dover as no better than a thief, a crook who should be in jail, and i invite you, mr president, to tell us how much of that money has now been repaid. this parliament should be a shining example of openness, honesty and transparency, and instead there sometimes seems to be a code of secrecy here to keep hidden the true extent of abuse of allowances by some members. our refusal to introduce the same sort of principles of financial transparency that we would expect of any other european institution brings shame upon us all.
mr president, i understand that mr davies may have made a speech about a situation concerning myself, and, therefore, i would like the right of reply on that matter. i only heard the last 10 words. he at least sent me an email in the last 20 minutes saying that he intended to speak on it. all i would like to say is that the big fuss and bother about my parliamentary assistance expenses, covered by the media over the last nine or twelve months, has been a harrowing experience. i have lodged my papers with the court of first instance, so i intend to fight a very robust case. i understand i have a very good case and, along with that, i have gone for interim measures, which means that no money will be payable until the court has heard all the evidence and made the appropriate decision. i beg leave to delay the house and thank you for this opportunity.
mr president, after 36 years of membership, what has the european union meant for britain? it means that we no longer govern ourselves. between 75% and 85% of our laws now come from the eu and not from our own parliament. the eu costs britain at least gbp 56 billion per annum – or the equivalent of gbp 900 per annum for every man, woman and child. we no longer control our own borders and suffer unlimited and uncontrolled immigration. eu human rights legislation means that we can no longer effectively protect ourselves from foreign criminals, illegal immigrants and bogus asylum seekers. the european arrest warrant and trials in absentia mean that we have lost our most basic protections from unjust arrest and imprisonment. eu membership is a disaster for britain. it is a grievous and unnecessary self-inflicted wound. the only solution to the problem is britain’s unconditional withdrawal from the european union.
mr president, the other day i was in birmingham. i was knocking on doors – a particularly british way of campaigning – and, unsurprisingly, not a single person whose doorstep i was on had the slightest clue that there was to be a european election in less than six weeks’ time. i am sure that you know that statistics in the uk show that only 16% of the public know about the elections, but what should be of concern to you is that these statistics are no better across the other member states. in fact, 30% have no intention of participating in the forthcoming elections. this lack of interest and awareness is as much the responsibility of this parliament as of anybody else. the millions that have been spent on communications with the citizens have been to no avail. what is particularly frustrating for me is that the promised election awareness advertisement has spectacularly backfired. a work-life balance advertisement has upset working women and groups trying to encourage breastfeeding. it is yet another own goal. mr president, you need to deal with this situation urgently, have the offending advertisement withdrawn and make sure that we have a simple message as to why people should participate in the forthcoming elections. this needs to be visible and easily understood.
mr president, glorification of terrorism takes many forms, but when a member of this house eulogises vile murderers, whose killing careers came to an end when they met their just desserts at the hands of lawful security forces, then that member has put herself at variance with everything that this house has ever said in condemning terrorism and those who sanitise and justify it. yet this is exactly what sinn fein member de brún did on easter sunday, when she described ira terrorists as decent, selfless and honourable. there is nothing decent or honourable about terrorism, past or present. shame on any member who proclaims such obscene adulation of men of blood!
rapporteur. − madam president, this energy package is the culmination of years of hard work in which parliament can be very proud of the changes that will now be put in place. we should, in particular, be proud of the fact that the eu’s energy consumers have now been put right at the centre of the energy debate for the first time and the issue of energy poverty has now been recognised at european level. the inherit conflict of interests that arises when a company owns both transmission and generation of electricity has been addressed, and the regulatory regime governing the energy markets has been strengthened. the electricity directive, for which i was rapporteur, is part of a package of five measures which seeks improvements in the way the electricity and gas markets work across the continent, to ensure that the markets are better integrated and operate in a fairer and less discriminatory way. let me say how grateful i have been for the enormous cooperation from the other rapporteurs on this package, as well as from the shadows, the commission and the czech presidency, for helping us to come to a conclusion on what was sometimes a very challenging debate. the legislation has seen a raft of new consumer protection measures set out, including ensuring that customers are able to switch suppliers within three weeks, the provision in each member state of an independent and robust complaints system, and the right to compensation if service levels are not met. this legislation will also ensure that every household in the eu will be fitted with so-called ‘smart meters’ by 2022. these smart meters will enable customers to better control their energy use and increase energy efficiency, helping to cut energy costs and reduce carbon emissions. on the european parliament’s initiative, the new legislation also includes special protection measures for vulnerable energy consumers, and the issue of energy poverty will now have to be taken seriously for the first time. i would like to ask commissioner piebalgs if he will now make a commitment that, in future, the energy framework of the eu, in addition to addressing security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness, will also now add a fourth leg – that of affordability – to all future energy policy proposals. an eu-backed report has recently concluded that up to 125 million citizens are affected by energy poverty. member states now must take appropriate measures which could lead to the prevention of hundreds – if not thousands – of deaths in the poorest households across the continent. we will also see the end to discriminatory pricing on prepayment meters. the most controversial part of the package centred on whether there was a need for full ownership unbundling in the energy markets – in other words, a total separation of transmission systems from generation. the market structure in some member states means that the monopoly enjoyed by transmission system operators, who also own the means of generating electricity, offers no incentive to encourage other players onto the market, thereby undermining competition. parliament has now accepted a compromise that will allow ownership of both transmission and generation on condition that we see increased checks and balances to ensure the removal of the inherent conflict of interest that arises. many of us reluctantly accepted the compromise because we believe that the wind is blowing in the direction of wholesale separations, and these integrated companies are likely to separate regardless of this directive. the commission’s efforts in exposing the abuses of some companies is starting to pay off, with examples of companies like e.on and rwe agreeing to sell their transmission networks following anti-trust investigations. we are also going to see a strengthening of national regulatory authorities. i would like to thank everybody for their cooperation, and i think we should be proud of what we have done for the consumers of the eu.
rapporteur. − madam president, this package is, i hope, more a case of ‘third time lucky’ than ‘work in progress’. i view the future role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators as crucial in achieving the long-desired internal market in gas and electricity. during the trialogue negotiations, it became clear to me that the improvements put forward by me on behalf of parliament are essential for fair and effective energy markets. my objective has been to create an agency with greater independence and decision-making powers. in particular, if it is to contribute effectively to the development of a single, competitive, energy market, the agency needs more powers to tackle cross-border issues and encourage effective cooperation between transmission system operators (tsos) and national regulatory authorities (nras). however, with greater power there should be greater accountability and transparency. i have in mind the general principle that we should reinforce the independence of the agency so as to make it both more effective and more credible by increasing the ways in which the agency is accountable, in particular to this parliament. i believe this will happen. i should say that a number of the roles we have given to the agency sound more consultative than concrete, but we have tried to create opportunities for innovative regulation by drawing attention to areas where action is needed but the agency does not have the appropriate powers to act. let me first emphasise the increased forms of accountability that we have negotiated. the director will appear before the relevant committee of this house, both prior to appointment and during his or her term of office, to make a statement and answer questions. likewise, the chairman of the board of regulators can attend the relevant committee and give an account of their work. parliament has gained the right to nominate two of the members of the administrative board. all of this gives the agency a forum in the public domain to make its voice heard on issues of its choice. turning to the roles i mentioned, i believe that monitoring internal markets in gas and electricity, participating in the development of network codes, contributing to the implementation of the guidelines on trans-european energy networks, monitoring progress on implementation of projects to create new interconnector capacity, having the power to decide on exemptions from requirements for investments in infrastructure, monitoring implementation of the 10-year network investment plans and having powers to issue opinions and recommendations to tsos – along with other aspects that i do not have the time to enumerate – will all give the agency ample opportunities to bring about change. finally, we have introduced requirements for streamlined decision-taking. i hope that the agency will rise to the challenges we have posed. we have also created the opportunity for the commission to come forward with its report on the working of the agency and to make suggestions as to further tasks and roles that the agency might fulfil, in the light of experience. i would like to thank our fellow rapporteurs, the other two institutions and the commissioner in particular for their hard and constructive work in achieving the final compromise package. i hope the fact that i have been invited to speak second, not fifth, is clear recognition of the true significance and importance of this proposal.
madam president, from time to time i have heard the single electricity market on the island of ireland held up as an example of such concepts in action. judged by what matters most to consumers – namely price – i have to say it is not a success. when minister dodds launched it, he promised efficiency savings and enhanced competition to help minimise the wholesale costs of electricity, with the vast bulk of the benefits going to the consumer. this rings rather hollow now, not least to the consumers from northern ireland who are in the public gallery listening to this debate. in my view, part of the problem is an ineffective regulatory process that is too aligned to the industry and too excusing of continuing high prices, even when the price of oil has radically fallen. forward buying at the top of the market, giving sky-high prices today, barely raises a whimper from the regulator, leaving hard-pressed consumers without the relief that he should be providing.
madam president, from the beginning of our negotiations on the belet report we found that all the stakeholders – from the tyre manufacturers to the environmental lobbyists – were broadly in agreement on the need for this legislation. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the way he has dealt with this particular report and the way he has worked with the shadows. i believe this legislation is needed right now. it will give a boost to the car industry at what is a very difficult time. i recently visited michelin in stoke and jaguar land rover factories in my constituency, where i saw how research and development into green technology is already very much in place. any support the industry receives during the downturn must focus on the requirements to adapt to the environmental challenge. legislation such as this will ensure our manufacturers become world leaders in the technology we so urgently need. it is a win-win proposal, because it will also help the consumer by providing much-needed clarity. tyres are not cheap, yet most individual buyers are forced into uniform purchases. this information will help make the move towards goods that reduce emissions as well as noise pollution. through this proposal we can promote a truly competitive market in greener goods.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank colleagues once again for their cooperation. i would also like to thank bethan roberts and rené tammist who have been a great help in preparing this report. this is my swan song after 15 years in the european parliament, and i am delighted that we have made such a significant improvement in the energy markets on behalf of the european public. it is far from perfect but it is definitely a step forward. i think that the energy crisis will become more acute in future years, so getting the right market framework in place, and creating the right kind of incentives for the right kind of investment, is crucial. we need an estimated eur 1 trillion worth of investment in the markets to stop the lights from going out in future. but there is a huge amount more to do. you know that there are 12 countries in the european union where one company dominates 70% of the electricity market. what we have at the moment is the worst of both worlds. we think we have competition, but what we have is the massive power of very large companies dominating certain markets. it will require action on the part of national regulatory authorities and competition authorities to make sure that we do not continue in this way. the real challenge in future will be implementation. let us not forget that there are many eu laws that already exist in the energy markets, and it is precisely because these laws were not being respected that the revision of this law needed to take place. whether we need a fourth package or not will depend on the commission ensuring implementation and good policing of these new laws by national regulatory authorities and competition authorities. so let us see a bit of action from the commission, and also from the national regulatory authorities.
rapporteur. − madam president, can i first of all say that my colleague mr vidal-quadras sends his apologies? he is not able to take up his slot. he has urgent business elsewhere, but he asked me to say – which was very nice of him – that the two of us agree that i will speak on behalf of our group. i would like to pick up one or two points that have come up in the debate. the first is the colleague who expressed concern that we will end up with a concentration of power in very few utilities. should that happen, the commission possesses powers under the competition rules to address that, and we have precedent in other parts of the world, including the united states, where they have tackled entrenched monopoly or dominant market power. so that is the ultimate resort, should this legislation fail. should we come back for a fourth package? i have to remind the commissioner that i urged upon him caution in embarking upon the third package: that it would be better to wait and see what the second package achieved once it was implemented. i think now we must allow time for this package to be transposed: to implement it and see how it works before deciding whether anything is needed. i have to say that my disappointment about our lack of success in tackling ownership unbundling is offset by my optimism about the possibility of the agency imaginatively using the powers that we have given it to deal with the situation, and i would like to thank my other colleague who demands more power for the energy regulators. market forces are already moving in this direction. two german utilities are divesting themselves of their transmission systems because they have realised there is better value in doing that. finally, could i restate the case for competition? it means better value and service for consumers, and it means a more efficient use of resources. that is why it is a good thing to do.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − mr president, can i start off by first of all thanking the committee on the internal market’s shadow rapporteurs from all the groups, their staff and advisers? i think that in the internal market committee we can all be proud that we have reached a consensus on increased transparency and ways to finally eliminate the problem of bill shock. bill shock was not good for the reputation of the mobile operators but more importantly, bill shock was not good for consumers. however, when it comes to price capping, i still have some concerns. we need to ask which consumers will benefit from the soviet economics of price caps. given that at most only 35% of consumers actually roam and that the figure for regular roamers is much lower and, as the commissioner herself admitted, given that this legislation will mostly benefit a narrow group of privileged consumers such as commission officials, meps, lobbyists and businessmen, let us hope that we are not robbing the poor to pay for cheaper phone calls for the rich.
member of the commission. - the mr president, deforestation is responsible for about 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions. therefore, from the perspective of climate change, tackling deforestation is a major priority. at the same time, tackling deforestation contributes to other important goals, such as ending poverty and halting biodiversity loss, the other major environmental threat to our planet. deforestation has now become a major issue in international negotiations on both climate change and biodiversity. in order to promote policy to address this issue, the european commission adopted a communication in october 2008, which was fully accepted by the council last december. the communication addresses the issue of deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries and proposes, inter alia, the development of a financing mechanism to provide incentives to preserve existing forests. this proposal is already under discussion and is being further developed in the ongoing international climate change negotiations. in its communication, the commission also recognises that various european policies, both domestically and internationally, are likely to have an indirect impact on global forest resources. the commission has therefore made specific commitments to strengthen the coherence of european policies. the measures proposed include: - studying the effects of the consumption of imported goods in the european union which may contribute to deforestation; - continuing the process of reviewing the coherence of our development policy needed to support developing countries in their efforts to achieve the millennium development goals. these commitments will also be implemented through the european commission's policy on sustainable consumption and production. this policy aims to stimulate the development and demand for sustainable products or services, including timber and wood-based products from forests managed sustainably. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forests are protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done. illegal logging is very often the first step in the wider conversion of natural forests. therefore, tackling illegal logging and generally improving forest management are of fundamental importance if efforts to limit deforestation and forest degradation are to succeed. in accordance with the 2003 european union action plan on forest law enforcement, management and trade, the commission proposed a series of measures to tackle the problem of illegal logging and related trade. a key element of the above action plan was the conclusion of voluntary partnership agreements with third countries producing timber. we believe that these agreements can help to tackle the root causes of illegal logging. however, the commission has also recognised that these agreements alone may not be sufficient to tackle the problem and that other options need to be explored. based on the results of the impact study, the commission put forward a policy proposal last year based on the 'due diligence principle'. the proposed regulation requires operators to minimise the risk of placing illegally harvested timber and related products on the market by exercising due diligence in obtaining information on the origin and legality of such products when placing such products on the market in the european union. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mrs lucas, the shadow rapporteurs and the author of the opinion, mr ford, for their extremely diligent work. the commission has examined the amendments proposed by the european parliament to its draft regulation, and i should like to comment briefly on them: the amendment prohibiting the marketing of illegally harvested timber and related products is very important. this ban was among the options considered by the commission when it drafted its proposal. however, while this approach is at first sight quite attractive, it presents significant practical and policy difficulties. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. this approach strikes the best possible balance between the effectiveness of the response to illegal practices, the possibility of applying such measures without imposing an unnecessary burden on economic operators and, finally, their compatibility with the rules of the world trade organisation. the amendments requiring all operators at all stages of the supply chain to ensure due diligence do not appear to follow the principle of proportionality. if the legality of timber is checked when it is first placed on the market, it does not appear necessary to continue checks at all subsequent stages of the commercial chain. i would also like to take note of the amendment by parliament which proposes a broader definition of 'legal wood'. this definition is the focus of the proposal and will undoubtedly be the subject of discussions with the council. the commission will carefully examine the implications of adopting such a broader definition. as regards the amendments concerning the recognition of supervisory and control bodies, we believe that our original proposal is more in line with the principle of subsidiarity by assigning the responsibility for the recognition of these bodies to the member states. the reasons for the proposal to set up an advisory group are perfectly understandable: the commission has always intended to consult the parties concerned, as it has also stated in its explanatory report. however, since the commission has the right of initiative to set up such advisory groups, it is not necessary to include a provision to that effect in the regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i shall conclude my speech here and will follow the debate with interest.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to start by saying how relieved i am that, at long last, we finally have before us a proposal for legislation to tackle the problem of illegal logging. parliament has been waiting for this for an enormous amount of time and i warmly thank my colleagues for their persistent efforts to see it brought forward. i would also like to thank my colleagues for their outstanding cooperation in bringing us to the point of tomorrow’s vote; shadows and staff have truly pulled out all the stops so that we could complete parliament’s first reading in the shortest possible time, so as to be in a position to seek a first-reading agreement and thus to avoid any further delays. sadly, however, the painfully slow rate of progress in the council has put paid to that idea. so it seems that we will have to be content with concluding this work in the autumn, following political agreement by the council in june, and that is very disappointing both to myself and to many colleagues who have worked so hard. had the council been here i would have liked to have asked them for a guarantee tonight that they will do everything possible to reach a common position before the summer, because this situation is incredibly urgent. illegal logging is a hugely serious problem, against which the eu has preached for many years, yet all the while continuing to provide one of the world’s biggest markets for illegally logged timber and timber products. between 20% and 40% of global industrial wood production is estimated to come from illegal sources, and up to 20% of that finds its way into the eu. that depresses timber prices, it strips natural resources and tax revenue, and it increases the poverty of forest-dependent peoples. the longer-term effects are even more serious, as commissioner dimas indicated, since deforestation, of which illegal logging is a major driver, accounts for nearly one fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions. with the copenhagen climate conference now on the horizon, credible eu action on illegal logging is ever more important. but credible action means effective, binding legislation. while the voluntary partnership agreements conceived under the 2003 flegt action plan have the potential to drive positive change, to date only one has been signed and, as long as their coverage is not universal, the risks of money-laundering and circumvention are just too high. the good news is that we do finally have eu legislation; the bad news is that the commission proposal is distressingly weak and will need comprehensive improvement in order to become meaningful and effective. in spite of commissioner dimas’ good words about the importance of tackling illegal logging, the commission proposal as it stands simply is not up to the job. the preamble to the proposal states that ‘weak rules to prevent trade in illegally harvested timber’ are at the root of the prevalence of illegal logging, but what the commission has come up with, i am afraid, will do nothing to change that. quite simply, the commission proposal as it stands will not achieve our aim of ensuring that the eu no longer provides a market for illegally logged timber. the most glaring, gaping hole in the proposal is that it does not actually prohibit the import and sale of illegally logged timber – perverse as that sounds. it requires only that operators at one particular point in the supply chain put in place a due-diligence system while everyone else is immune from any obligation as to the legality of the timber or the timber products that they trade. now that stands in stark contrast to the revised us lacey act adopted in may 2008, which does enact an explicit prohibition on the import and sale of illegally logged timber, and there is absolutely no good reason why the eu cannot emulate this. so, while my report maintains the commission’s suggestion that only operators who place timber and timber products on the eu market for the first time should be required to put in place a full due-diligence system – since they are clearly the actors with the most influence – it makes clear that all operators in the market share responsibility for trading only legally sourced wood and that failing to do that may constitute an offence. i should like to say to commissioner dimas that i really do believe that our proposals are supplementing due diligence: they are making it more effective, they are making it operational and there is no problem at all with wto rules. if the us can do it, we should do it, and that is why parliament is seeking to amend this proposal.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank all the speakers in tonight’s debate for their constructive contributions. it is important to underline that tackling global deforestation and forest degradation is a complex issue. solving it requires real political will and actions on the demand side. we should keep in mind that patterns of tropical deforestation are the result of the interaction of a number of different factors which vary in importance in different locations. forest cover is not only affected by forest policies, but also by other policies such as taxation policy, land tenure and rights. in the european union we understand that working on the coherence of our policies must go hand in hand with supporting countries in their efforts to strengthen national and local institutions and make progress towards effective governance and use of forest resources. i wish to thank again ms lucas, mr ford and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work. i am encouraged that parliament, while endorsing the approach of the commission, wants to reinforce it further and has made amendments to this end. let me assure you that i fully share parliament’s objective of putting in place an ambitious regulation to address illegal logging and its associated trade. i also want to assure you that the commission will give careful consideration to the amendments of the proposed regulation. to conclude, i would like in particular to comment on two of the issues addressed tonight. firstly i would like to refer to the due-diligence approach, which is more comprehensive than just a certificate of legality. the principle of due diligence reflects the legal obligation of a proactive behaviour to a certain legality and needs to be demonstrated on a basis of comprehensive measures which will enable legality to be reasonably assured. in some cases a certificate of legality will only be a starting point, the first measure included in the due diligence procedure. where the risk assessment has shown that the country of origin presents a higher risk of administrative corruption, or in countries where enforcement of national laws is weak, additional guarantees are necessary to underpin the certified legality. the other issue i would like to address is the proposed extension of the scope to cover downstream operators. according to the principles of better regulation and a reduction of administrative burden, requiring distributors and retailers to demand proof of the due diligence from the proceeding market obligators appears to be excessive. if timber was made subject to due-diligence enquires when first placed on the market, why unduly burden downstream operators? in summary, out of the 75 proposed amendments, the commission can support fully, in part, or in principle, 37. i will provide parliament’s secretariat with a list detailing the commission’s position on the amendments.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to thank my colleagues, and commissioner dimas, very much for their comments. one important point i would like to make is that great care has been taken in our amendments not to reinvent the wheel. i have learnt from meetings with numerous industry representatives and other stakeholders that many countries, and also many companies, already have in place excellent systems which would fulfil most, if not all, requirements of the due-diligence system. it makes sense, then, that all the work that has gone into establishing those systems does not go to waste and that we do not create unnecessary extra administrative burdens; that is far from being our intention. that being so, we have been very careful and have made use of good advice on including wording which would enable good existing systems to qualify under the regulation without the need to establish whole new structures. so we have taken very seriously the message that we should not be disproportionate, that we should not be putting too much burden on the different players in the trading system, and that is exactly what our report aims to do: to make sure that all players in the trading system have a responsibility, that we do not put everything onto those who first put the products onto the market. that is what seems disproportionate. i think it is much more sensible that everybody has a role to play. i would also add that many elements of our proposals are actually supported by industry. it is rather ironic that in many senses industry seems to be far more ambitious in this area than even the commission itself. i have heard directly from industry how much they appreciate not only the fact that the committee on the environment’s report provides them with much greater clarity on what will be expected of them, but also precisely this fairer and more effective sharing of responsibility across the different parts of the supply chain which i have just described. as far as european operators are concerned, i would like to say very clearly that the regulation as we have amended it should do nothing but benefit responsible european operators, since the vast majority of them already do most of what is being asked, and the existence of the regulation will prevent them from being undercut by other, less scrupulous, operators. so we should be very clear that there is nothing in this report that makes life difficult for european operators. we have also got some special measures for smaller operators, so we have taken very seriously the risk of being disproportionate; i think we have addressed that very sensibly in the report that we have put before you. having heard again your comments, commissioner, on the environment committee’s report, i am afraid i do maintain my view that the commission’s proposal as it stands is disappointing and weak and simply will not do what it claims to do. i fail to see how you can have legislation aimed at preventing the sale of illegally logged timber which does not actually make doing so an offence. the way in which the whole commission proposal is written is very patchy and it is very timid. i think most european consumers would be genuinely shocked to realise that the eu does not already have in place legislation against illegal logging, and i suspect that all those who concluded, in response to the commission’s own consultation, that legislation was the only way to really address the problem would not see the particular proposals by the commission, the due-diligence system on its own, as sufficient to be able to address the problems that we face. i will end my comments tonight by seeking – maybe via your good offices, commissioner – to put some pressure behind the council to speed up their work, because we really do want to make sure we get a common position from the council before the summer so that we can move swiftly on with this in the autumn. as i said earlier, we had really hoped to get a first-reading agreement. parliament did everything it could to enable that to happen. it is, frankly, deeply disappointing that the council has not acted with equivalent seriousness and speed, but i hope i can ask you once again, commissioner, to do all you can to ensure that the council does move swiftly on this.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, beyond congratulating mr romeva i rueda on his report, i would like to address the content in the wider context of the common fisheries policy. in the last 10 years i have heard many criticisms of it, including the lack of a level playing field, insufficient stakeholder involvement, inadequate balancing of economic, social and environmental imperatives and too much by way of micro-management from the centre. recently, though, i have been able to assure people that the policy is undergoing significant change. of course there is still a long way to go – eliminating discards, for example – and there are times when the commission still seems to veer towards micro-management. i mention here article 47 of the control regulation, at least in its original version. i have often said, though, that the common fisheries policy is a bit like an oil tanker: it takes a considerable time to turn round, and i do believe that the control regulation will go a long way to achieving the necessary level playing field where enforcement and sanctions are concerned, just as the development of regional advisory councils shall do much to bring improvements in other respects. so i would like to finish on a personal note, by expressing my appreciation of the valuable work done by members of the fisheries committee throughout and by thanking commissioner borg and his team for all that has been achieved in their five years at the helm.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i must declare an interest in this subject. i am a lifelong keen sea angler, as are most of my family. i enjoy this because it is one of the last basic freedoms that we have. we can go onto the beach or out in our boats, catch a few fish and take them home to eat. now, for some years, recreational sea anglers have been lobbying for their sport to be included as part of the cfp. i have said for years, ‘be careful what you wish for’. well, now it has happened and it is called article 47, and it is called this maltese commissioner, joe borg. there are over one million of us in britain: we are conservation-minded; we are sensible. we do not need regulating, mr borg, by the likes of you. that is why we need an outright rejection of article 47 because nothing else will do. if you get this power, you can come back year after year. we may say now that beach angling has been exempted, but once it is under the auspices of people like you, mr borg, you can come back next year or the year after and start to regulate it. as far as boat angling is concerned, the door with all of this is open for everybody being required to have licences and to report. any mini-victory that we feel that we won at committee stage by changing the words ‘member states shall’ to ‘member states may’ start to collect this data is lost: i am afraid, with defra back home, i feel they will take any opportunity to use eu rules to control us in any way that they can. sea angling needs encouragement. we should be building offshore reefs. we should be recognising – as the americans have done – the enormous economic impact that it can have. instead, we have a common fisheries policy that has been an environmental disaster already. it is prejudiced against the british working fleet and it will now ruin sea angling in britain if we give this man, and people of his ilk, power. so, commissioner borg, my advice is ‘sling your hook’!
mr president, you are probably aware that two fishermen, a father and son, from northern ireland, who fish out of peterhead, have been jailed in liverpool after being fined gbp 1 million and that the assets recovery agency, which is an agency normally used for measures against drug dealers and gangsters, was utilised to hammer these two working fishermen, who, admittedly, were involved in landing illegal catches, which no one would condone – but to treat working fishermen, even guilty of that offence, as criminals, as gangsters, in the same way as we would treat drug dealers, is appalling. this proves why we definitely need some measure to introduce a level playing field as is contained in mr romeva i rueda’s report, because a similar offence in some parts of the eu would probably merit a fine of just eur 2 000 or eur 3 000. i want, however, to use the remainder of my time to talk about article 47, not surprisingly, because i believe that there is a need to differentiate between the word ‘shall’ and the word ‘may’ as contained in amendments 93, 48, 49 and 50. we won considerable support in committee for my amendment that contained the word ‘may’, but now you have informed us, commissioner, that you would reject that in any case, so it seems we have been wasting our time. i do hope you will consider this again. if a member state does not think it is necessary to pursue this course of action, i hope you would respect the subsidiarity principle.
rapporteur. − mr president, behind the commission consultative paper on debtors’ assets is the concern that late payment and non-payment of debts jeopardise the interests of businesses and consumers. this is particularly the case when the creditor and the enforcement authorities have no information about the debtor’s whereabouts or his or her assets. the problem can be resolved where the debtor has assets in the eu and it is possible to trace them and bring legal proceedings. the commission, in its report, suggested drawing up a manual of national enforcement laws and practices and highlighted the possibility of increasing access to population registers. it also raised questions on whether enforcement authorities should be given better access to social security and tax registers. the proposal suggested that the cooperation between public enforcement bodies might be improved and, lastly, it put forward the idea of a european assets declaration, which would oblige debtors to disclose all their assets in the european judicial area, possibly backed by sanctions. my report, as voted by the committee, suggested that creditors would benefit from the introduction of a simpler, more flexible procedure, effective throughout the eu, to obtain an order to disclose information about assets which may then be made the subject of a judgement. such measures could take the form of an interim payment order, giving the creditor immediate payment pending resolution of the underlying dispute. the report also calls for a study into how the present national systems work, with a comparison between common-law countries, such as britain, and other european jurisdictions, and how existing arrangements could be improved. it also highlights the need to consider areas in which further cooperation with member states could have a positive effect and how the proposals will work alongside existing data protection and human rights legislation. we have endeavoured to shape the report along these lines and the compromises arrived at by the committee have already ironed out some of the discrepancies between member states’ legal systems. many of the additions we have made are designed to make the proposal more transparent and easier to use for the creditor. it will therefore be imperative to ensure that the proposed manual of national enforcement laws and practices is kept updated and that the information is provided in easy-to-use format and that it should be written in an accessible language. it will also be crucial for the initiative to act in tandem with – rather than replacing the work of – national courts. this will require the legislation to be restricted only to cross-border cases. by bearing this caveat in mind, the enforcement of this legislation will made to work efficiently and proactively. overall the report will do much to help small businesses and enterprising individuals to overcome a significant obstacle to their success because they lack the resources of large enterprises to track down debtors and bring legal action against them. small businesses are affected disproportionately by people defaulting on payments. if companies are thereby discouraged from trading abroad, this represents a real threat to the very functioning of the common market. it will be vital to protect the activities of small businesses at this difficult time because smes make up a large proportion of our economy. i would like to thank the legal affairs committee secretariat and to praise the excellent support they have given me on this report. thanks must also go to colleagues from other groups who have made very constructive suggestions. what is key, i believe, is for this legislation to be brought forward as soon as possible. i call on the commission to act on parliament’s recommendations with urgency. much of the good work that the member states have been doing in responding to the market downturn has to be focused for large-scale enterprises.
rapporteur. − madam president, you caught me slightly unawares as i had not seen the complete change of the timetable today, but i am very grateful for the chance to address the chamber about a very important issue of the financial services industry, that is, the insurance and reinsurance industry, what we have done with the solvency ii report and how we have finally brought this now to parliament in order to be able to establish what i think will be a very concrete basis for regulation across the european union. it is, of course, something which we are coming back to. there was solvency i, and i am grateful to mr ettl when previously in parliament we discussed this at some length and we managed to come up with some basis. but now we have to modernise, and the insurance industry is amongst many financial services industries which have to be at the forefront of change. it is clear, with the financial crisis and everything that has gone along with it, that the insurance industry is something which cannot be left alone. there are several measures which come about from solvency ii which i think have helped to make this one of the leading reports, which will be a global leader at that. amongst them is the issue of management of risk. i think it is not enough now that regulators simply tick boxes to establish whether or not the industry that they are meant to be guarding and protecting on behalf of the consumer is doing the right thing. it is essential that the day-to-day business of insurance and reinsurance companies is actually watched, managed and monitored by regulators over a period of time. it is by this process and this process alone that we will be able to establish a proper and appropriate form of regulation. it is the reporting of companies: yes, they will be doing things to tell regulators what they are doing, but regulators will have to be involved. and across 27 member states: not each individual member state with their own separate rules now, considering what they can apply in terms of that regulation, but indeed they will be applying a standard formula of regulation across the european union, which will lead, frankly, to the better consumer platform of protection that we expect. similarly, companies will manage to get economies of scale from this regulation, because now they will be reporting only in one way to each of the regulators. what they produce, what they have to say, what they do and how they report, will not just be to one regulator but it could be to a college of regulators, especially for groups, because, as insurance companies cross borders, it is now important that regulators team up and work together to ensure that the appropriate levels of reporting, the appropriate levels of figures and what information is supplied, are brought to bear to make sure that the markets are best protected. it was during the discussion with the council that parliament saw some interesting and perhaps sometimes even deliberate ploys to move national industries one way or another, so i cannot pretend that this has not been a very difficult dossier to try to negotiate with the council: it has. parliament has pushed the council a long way. it pushed it further than i think the council established and really wanted to go under the last two presidencies, so i am very proud and pleased to have worked with the team that i have in order to be able to get the council to move. unfortunately we will not have the kind of group support that we initially envisaged that we should, but because we are able to insert a review clause in this directive, we will be able to come back to group support and, three years after the introduction of this particular directive, i am hoping – and i expect the commissioner to tell me that he will anticipate doing this as well – to be able to bring back group support in one way or another, specifically to match the economic side of this particular approach. we want a regulation that is risk-based and principle-based, but one that will also support the capacity of the industry and one that will promote the very best instincts of regulators across the european union and abroad. i will just finish on this one note. we must also challenge regulators elsewhere in the world and recognise country-to-country regimes only. i hope the commissioner will agree with me about that.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − madam president, i welcome the agreement for solvency ii and, like others, i regret the relegation of group support to a future review and the eventual inability on the part of the council to explore with us ways to make it workable, taking into account some well founded concerns. in both the committee on legal affairs and the committee on economic and monetary affairs i looked at what happens to the movement of capital at times of group stress, such as near-insolvency, and it is certainly not as straightforward as the commission draft or insurance industry representatives portrayed. however, there are instruments available that could achieve the objective and we recommended level 2 measures, but now we are left to look for the future for ways to maximise safe, economic use of capital in a group. i hope that member states will rise to the challenge when it comes to looking for better solutions on winding-up. turning now to some of the things in the package, changes to article 27 specified that supervisory authorities must have relevant expertise and capacity. i made the original amendment in part with the report on equitable life in mind, but in the context of the financial crisis it has a wider resonance and i have achieved similar inclusions in the capital requirements and credit-rating proposals. it must be absolutely clear that taking a risk-based approach is not a soft option. proper understanding of models and underlying assumptions should be a more intensive way of supervising than tick-boxes. stress tests must challenge beyond the comfort zone of assumptions, and correlation factors should remain under active review. group supervision is now made an inclusive process, not winner-takes-all for the group supervisor, although there has to be responsibility at a single end point ultimately. the role of ceiops is augmented, and it is worth stressing that it was the discussion around solvency ii that led the way towards mainstream thinking on enhanced roles for the level 3 committees. importantly, it is also clarified that there should not be conflicts between the mandate of a national supervisor and its role within ceiops. these amendments were somewhat prescient when made quite some time ago, but have shown their worth as the financial crisis has developed. as the rapporteur has said, the parliament team has done well and in the context of solvency ii; so has the czech presidency.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, i have spent 40 years in financial services, so i think perhaps i know a little bit about what i am talking about here. let me just say a little about the uk financial services authority (fsa), which will guide us onto the target of how mistakes are made. the fsa in the united kingdom has a rule book of half a million words. nobody understands it – least of all the fsa. the fsa interprets its own rule book in secret; they keep the fines that they impose to beef up their own salaries and pensions; there is no court of appeal. i have written to commissioner mccreevy on this subject and it drives a coach and horses through articles 6 and 7 of his own human rights act. there is no court of appeal. there is no legal recourse at all if they get it wrong. the general public has been given the impression that if a regulation has an fsa stamp on it it cannot go wrong. there is no concept of caveat emptor. now it is going to be, it would appear, subsumed by some sort of eu overseer, consisting no doubt of ignorant bureaucrats, scandinavian housewives, bulgarian mafia and romanian peg-makers. frankly, i think you are going to get on really well with each other.
madam president, i am pleased that solvency ii has at last reached the point of decision. mr skinner and his shadows have displayed exemplary resilience and patience in achieving this. i am sorry, also like others, that group support is excluded, but not surprised, frankly, in the current febrile circumstances. we need to work hard to achieve a group system that will work for and in a truly european single market for insurance, which is also effective with third countries – we cannot have any more aig fiascos. i would also like to compliment rapporteur gauzès and the council on reaching a reasonable conclusion to the regulation of credit rating agencies. clearly, these agencies have made serious mistakes, and some form of increased regulation was inevitable. but who has not made mistakes, not least the regulators themselves, and can we be sure they are now above making any future errors? i was concerned that the rabidly hostile scapegoating of credit-rating agencies would result in excessively intrusive and counter-productive regulation, with an overwhelming eurocentric, protectionist and extraterritorial dimension. the compromise, i am glad to see, has muted these tendencies to some extent, but not to the extent i would have liked to have seen. credit ratings are an opinion – they are useful opinions, they are expert opinions, but they are only opinions, so it is up to investors to take full responsibility for their investment decisions. no doubt these lessons have now been learned and all too starkly and at a cost. i am glad the scope is restricted to ratings used for regulatory purposes. i am glad to see that we have moved away from equivalence and endorsement, when dealing with third-country ratings, to equivalence or endorsement. but could the commissioner please confirm that this means that investors can still invest freely in stocks and bonds in third countries which are not rated in europe or which do not have equivalent status? we must be on the look-out for unintended consequences. with no prior impact assessment, these will almost certainly appear and, therefore, the review requirement in article 34 is of vital importance.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to start by saying what i should perhaps have said first of all, which is a thank you to all the services of the commission, the council, and particularly the parliament, for the work that they put into this. i have to say that without their work and their help, we would not have achieved this. like many around the room, we are quite astounded by the level of technical detail that goes into many of these reports, but let us say about solvency ii that it was forged outside a crisis to face a crisis. it has risk management in it and – as many people have heard round the room – this is a first for much of the financial services legislation. it also does – and i agree with the commissioner – contain group supervision. group support, unfortunately, is out, but we have heard all about that. let us hope that we can get that back. capital is defined as well. many aspects of this report make it a world leader. my second point is about the strategic impact of using such legislation. in many respects, just having a regulation that works over 27 member states is not going to be helped if we do not have the twin, which is a strategic regulator at a european level which works over 27 member states as well. we need to overcome the differences that exist between regulators and make sure that we speak with one voice. it is particularly important when we come to recognise regimes elsewhere in the world. just this weekend i met with paul kanjorski, chair of the subcommittee on finance in the us congress, and others, who are now talking about accelerating the prospects for a single regulator at a federal level in the united states. it they do that before we do it in europe, we could be severely embarrassed by not having the regulator we need at a european level. this is a report which is at a global level and a global measure, a process about which we could all feel proud, but we also need to make sure that we continue to push for the changes on the issues thrown up by the de larosière report and also on group support which will bring about economic efficiency. i hope that everybody can support those measures.
rapporteur. − mr president, i wish to begin by thanking all colleagues who have been involved in this over the last five years and the commission and the council for their work on this implementing regulation. the coordination of social security systems has been in place since 1971 – it is not new, as some thought the last time we discussed it – and it is this regulation that will be discussed in the context of the cross-border health-care debate on thursday morning. this is the regulation to which that refers, and this is the implementation of it. we believe we have made considerable progress, not least in terms of the electronic means of communication, which hopefully will speed up the process for all citizens, but we in parliament believe that we have added to citizens’ rights within this process, that they are now entitled to much more information, not least in the case of those who have been posted for work purposes. we also believe we have made minimal progress on deadlines – although that is something that rests with the member states. this is important: it now means we can bring in the updated regulation and, hopefully, this will work more rapidly and in the best interests of all citizens. again, i would like to thank all colleagues who have been involved in this long, difficult but, hopefully, very fruitful outcome. (applause)
rapporteur. − mr president, parliament has moved from its first-reading position on the electricity and gas directive. i would just like briefly to explain why. the report as it stands is far from perfect, but we believe that we have made substantial gains for energy consumers in the european union. we have put the issue of energy poverty onto the european agenda for the very first time and we have ensured the independence of the national regulatory authorities and given them an increased role to police the new system. we would like, however, to encourage the commission and, in particular, the competition authorities to continue their work in ensuring that companies that own both generation and transmission systems play by the rules and do not abuse their positions. i would like to thank colleagues for all their help over the years.
mr president, you might think that, because i am leaving this parliament in july, i should have no views at all on the programme for parliament in 2010. but i would be failing those who sent me here for the last 10 years if i did not use this opportunity as a protest against holding this parliament in strasbourg at all. it is a scandalous waste of taxpayers’ resources. there is no reason for it: there is an adequate parliament building in brussels. when i mention this to people in the united kingdom – the expense and the trouble that everyone goes to to come here – they are absolutely astounded, particularly in a time of economic stringency, that we should pursue the habit. the time has come to end the strasbourg farce, to ensure parliament operates only in brussels and make a real contribution to saving public money for better reasons to spend it on.
mr president, each year the conference of presidents tables different amendments to try to ensure that we spend more time in strasbourg than we should. in fact we spend more time in strasbourg than anybody out there really appreciates, because just getting to this place involves almost a day of travel for most people. we should not be choosing to come to strasbourg at all. the one extra right i would like this parliament to have is the right to choose where it sits. my colleague, mr posselt, recognises there is some local advantage to politicians who live close to this place. however, it is not easy for all of us just to commute across the border from germany. to get constituents here – people who want to visit to see how this parliament works – it takes over a day. we have perfectly good facilities in brussels. we should not be voting to extend the time we spend in strasbourg: we should be voting to get rid of it.
mr president, i have just one issue to raise here, which is the scandalous saga of the land-grab laws in spain, which has been before the committee on petitions in one form or another these past six years. throughout this house all of us will have constituents, whatever our nationality, who have been suffering from abuses under the urbanisation law in the spanish costas, as indeed thousands of spanish citizens are. the attempts to bring this matter to judgment in this house have been shamefully frustrated by a number of spanish deputies in both parties, and i would particularly appeal to my colleagues in the spanish partido popular to remember the importance of the sanctity of property. they of all people should understand – knowing their history and knowing what happened in the second republic, when ownership was not secure – how important it is that people should feel that their title deeds are not up for violation by state abuses.
mr president, there are enormous savings to be had by the creation of a common european grid. somewhere in europe, at any given moment, there is surplus electricity, and breaking down national barriers will substantially reduce our dependence on imported energy sources. unfortunately, though, that kind of model of integration – a free-market, decentralised, organic one – is not what we have been voting on in our series of reports today. we are instead going down this road towards harmonisation, towards fixed prices, towards protection, towards a common negotiating position vis-à-vis russia and other third parties. it is a basic ideological difference in the european union between a free market based on mutual product recognition and a harmonised market based on the reduction of consumer choice, the protection of producers and the regulation of authority. i think there are particular dangers for a country like britain. we were, until two years ago, the eu’s only net energy producer. even now we are roughly in equilibrium. a common energy policy could end up being for us like the common fisheries policy, one where we are the only country putting a substantial amount into the common pot, from which all others are then drawing on an equal basis.
mr president, before i go further i would just like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, mrs morgan. i know she is about to leave this place and, though we do not always agree on issues, i think everyone will agree that she has done a tremendous amount of work on this report. we all know, if we look at the history of liberalisation in the eu, that telecoms liberalisation has been a great success, offering choice, lower prices and better services to consumers right across the eu. it is a shame that the postal market and the energy market, in particular, have lagged behind in this respect. this is certainly a few steps in the right direction, but we still need to sort out the problem of network unbundling and also access to other markets. it is not right that some markets, such as the uk market, remain open to competition, whereas companies in germany and france are able to access the uk market, yet prevent companies from the uk and other countries accessing their own market. the time for protectionism is over. it is time to have more faith in the market.
mr president, as the rapporteur of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on this report, i am very proud of the work that we did in introducing more transparency. one of the big problems for many years has been the issue of bill shock for a number of consumers when they return home to find a larger than expected bill. however, if we look at the rest of the report, and particularly the issue of price caps, i think we should recognise that, without this regulation, prices have been falling anyway. the commission itself admits, on its own figures, that most consumers do not roam: 70% of consumers do not roam at all during a year. the level for regular roamers is much lower. so what we are really doing is reducing call costs and data costs for a privileged few meps, commission officials, european journalists and european businessmen. let us hope that companies, when they try to regain that revenue from elsewhere, do not start charging domestic users – and particularly the poor – more for their calls. let us hope that we are not robbing the poor to pay for cheaper calls for the rich.
mr president, of course we are all in favour of lower charges when travelling abroad with our mobiles – you would have to be insane to be against that, but that is only one part of the equation. when we in this house oblige the operators to lower their roaming charges they have to find the money from elsewhere, and that will usually mean raising the charges for those who do not travel. this is, in other words, a tax on non-travellers for the benefit of travellers. there will be teenagers in council estates in my constituency who are now facing higher charges so that a number of businesspeople, meps and commissioners can talk more cheaply when abroad. i have to say we were not disinterested parties. all of us involved in this vote stand to gain very substantially from the kind of regulations that we have been pushing through in this field over the last year. if you want to understand how power has shifted in europe, you need only read this report. ‘who whom?’, asked lenin in perhaps the pithiest statement of political philosophy ever uttered. who has the power, and over whom does he wield it? well, there can no longer be much doubt over who has the power: we do – we eurocrats.
mr president, before i start on my explanation of vote, i would just like to congratulate my colleague, mr kamall, who has just made his 100th speech in plenary. some will be surprised that it has taken this long! but it is good to have him in the centurion club. i voted for the hökmark report for all sorts of reasons. mainly because, well, who could be against nuclear safety? and, i guess, if you are going to talk about nuclear safety and how we provide energy for the future, we would want it to be provided as safely as possible and disposed of as safely as possible. but, equally, i voted for this mainly because i want there to be more nuclear power provided in the future – more in the uk – because i am sick to death of seeing windmills and wind turbines pop up across beautiful parts of the european countryside, which add nothing to any of our national grids – in fact they cause extra harm to the national grids – and do not provide renewable energy: they just provide a slightly alternative energy for a short period of time. i am all for nuclear safety and all for nuclear energy.
mr president, the crass proposal by the commission, in its original proposition, that they should control recreational fishing and require returns and licensing and everything else that goes with such bureaucracy, was one of the those proposals which, quite rightly, stirred huge opposition, not just in that sector, but amongst those who take an interest in matters pertaining to fishing and to eu bureaucracy. i am therefore glad that, today, amendment 48 has been approved. this at least goes some way to restoring the proper discretion of the member state as to whether to take any steps in relation to the licensing and the recording of recreational fishing, leaving it to member states to judge whether there is any impact – when in most member states there is not – on the product of fish take from recreational fishing. so i am glad that the commission has been rebuffed on this proposition and that what started out as bad has been somewhat ameliorated.
mr president, after 10 years in this parliament i did not think anything could surprise me any more, but i was shocked by the fatuity of the proposal of extending the common fisheries policy to recreational sea anglers, requiring them to log every catch and count it against their national quota. the proposal has not been deleted, although it has been substantially bettered largely thanks to a long and gruelling war of attrition fought in committee by four gritty and patriotic scots representing the main parties of that country: mesdames attwooll and stihler, and messieurs stevenson and hudghton. i also want to pay tribute to northern ireland’s best friend in the european parliament, jim allister, who is a great champion of the interests of both communities and traditions in his province. the problem here was enforcement. the problem was that people were not enforcing existing law. our instinct in this parliament is always to legislate, rather than use the legal arsenal already at our disposal. i wish that we would apply – more widely than just in the field of fisheries – the principle that the best thing is not always to pass a new law until you have completely exhausted the legal powers that you already have.
mr president, the vote today on the romeva report should, i hope, reassure european anglers that their concerns have been recognised. amendments 7 and 11 passed without opposition; amendment 48 passed by 608 votes to 37; amendment 49 passed by 580 votes to 54; amendment 50 was widely supported; amendment 2 passed as it was part of a block vote with amendments 7 and 11; amendment 92 fell and amendment 93 also fell, which was what the angling community were asking for. the next step will really be how the council will deal with the rewording of article 47. will they take on board parliament’s rewording or will they take a different approach? it is a shame no one from the council is here to answer that question. but today’s launch of the green paper on reform of the common fisheries policy gives us all an opportunity to change the common fisheries policy, and i hope members will take the opportunity to circulate the green paper to as many constituents as possible to make their voice heard.
mr president, thank you very much. it feels quite a milestone – sorry, was that millstone or milestone? – to have reached. this report has an interesting title: ‘the conservation of fisheries resources through technical measures’. because i really have to say, if we really want the best technical measure to conserve fishing stocks, it is not to be found in the common fisheries policy. the results are there: the common fisheries policy has been a failure when it comes to conserving fishing stocks. it is time – and long overdue – that we look at results around the world that have worked. let us look at the example of iceland, where they have come up with property-based solutions and rights that can be handed down. let us look at the example of new zealand, where rights to fishing grounds have been handed on from generation to generation. in both cases it shows that, if you trust the market, you trust the rule of law and you trust property rights, more often than not that will find a better solution than some soviet-style centrally planned scheme, such as the common fisheries policy, which has proved a disaster. it is time to have faith in the market.
in writing. − i welcome caroline lucas’s report laying down certain obligations on operators who place timber and timber products on the market. i was the draftsman for the opinion of the international trade committee which was adopted unanimously in committee. for us, the best way to stop the trade in illegal timber was to strengthen requirements and obligations and enhance the legal means to prosecute possession and sales by operators placing illegal timber and timber products on the eu market as a deterrent. we need to work together with major consuming countries such as the us, china, russia and japan to tackle this problem and to set up a global alert system and register of illegal logging and countries of concern using interpol, an appropriate un body utilising the latest satellite technology systems.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which sets rules for operators placing timber on the eu market for the first time. operators will be required to follow a ‘due diligence’ system so that all timber is harvested in accordance with relevant regional, national and international law. i am pleased that operators will also have to comply with sustainability criteria and laws on indigenous peoples. it is essential that there is independent third party verification of compliance, and i am glad that this report highlights this.
in writing. − efforts must be taken to halt the trade in illegally harvested timber and timber products being placed on the eu market, in the interests of effective competition, sustainable development and protecting global biodiversity and the environment. the due diligence system proposed by the commission (which is already practised to high standards in the uk), includes measures and procedures which will enable operators to track the timber and timber products, to have access to information concerning compliance with the applicable legislation and to manage the risk of placing illegal timber and products on the eu market. this action will also provide consumers with the certainty that by buying timber and timber products they do not contribute to the problem of illegal logging and associated trade. while we support this proposal in principle, we do not support the reinforcement of requirements to all operators as proposed by the rapporteur, which we believe introduce disproportionate bureaucratic and financial burdens on all operators within the eu. the commission's proposal provides for flexible due diligence based on risk assessment and the analysis of evidence and is a far more effective and practical approach.
in writing. − whilst we favour cooperation between member states on these issues, we believe this matter should remain one of subsidiarity and not subject to eu action.
in writing. − hundreds of thousands of my constituents across yorkshire and humberside stand to save money on their gas and electricity bills as a result of this legislation. the measures will combine increased energy efficiency with lower costs. although full unbundling has not yet been achieved, this legislation will move towards a network where companies are not allowed to own both the generation of electricity and its distribution, thereby enabling them to overcharge consumers. in particular, i welcome the fact that it will also give customers the right to change their gas and electricity supplies within three weeks free of charge, and gives a right to compensation in cases where people are given inaccurate or delayed bills. energy-efficient smartmeters will also be introduced. these new rules amount to a bill of rights for gas and electricity users. for too long companies have been able to force consumers to pay over the odds for their gas and electricity. my constituents will see the benefit of this legislation in cuts to their bills.
in writing. − the greatest failing of the single market is the failure to establish a single market in energy. national energy policies have led europe to a dead end with an extreme dependence on expensive imported fossil fuels. there is neither a european energy grid nor a strategic energy storage policy. as a matter of urgency we must diversify our energy supply, reduce consumption, encourage low-carbon energy and establish a stable competitive internal market. for these reasons i support these reports while being concerned that the struggle to find a compromise acceptable to all may blunt the effectiveness of this legislation, so effective monitoring of implementation is vital. i support the increased provisions for consumer rights and welcome the recognition of energy poverty as a serious social problem. i remain uneasy about the non-binding nature of the eu agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. ultimately we can only secure a single energy market if we have a european regulator with real powers. i congratulate parliament on pushing the member states to go further than they wanted to go. this is another example of parliament guaranteeing the victory of the broader european cause over national self-interest and protectionism.
in writing. − i welcome this report as a necessary adjunct to the type approval for the general safety of motor vehicles legislation approved earlier this year, which is mainly concerned with environmental and safety standards for tyres. we need tyres to be safer, more fuel efficient and quieter. traffic noise, of which tyre noise is an important component, is a major cause of ill health. reducing fuel consumption will be of great benefit to the consumer at a time of increasing austerity but it will also reduce co2 emissions and contribute to the eu’s ambitious goals in climate change reduction. with the labelling process consumers will be able to make an informed choice when buying tyres but also when deciding on which car to buy. we must monitor, though, how effective the labels are. we must ensure that consumers really do understand them, otherwise the whole exercise will be meaningless.
in writing. − british conservatives have been unable to approve discharge of the 2007 european budget, european council section. for the 14th consecutive year the european court of auditors has only been able to give a qualified statement of assurance for the accounts of the european union. we note the auditors’ remarks that around 80 per cent of the transactions of the eu are carried out by agencies working within the member states under joint management agreements. the auditors consistently report that levels of control and scrutiny of the use of eu funds within the member states is inadequate. in order to address this ongoing problem, the council entered into an interinstitutional agreement in 2006, which obliged them to produce certification for those transactions for which they are responsible. we are dismayed to note that, to date, the majority of the member states have not satisfactorily delivered on their obligation and therefore, despite the traditional ‘gentleman’s agreement’ between parliament and council, we will not grant discharge until such time as the member states fulfil their obligations under the interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which examines the trading relationship between the eu and turkmenistan. according to very detailed reports from human rights watch, amnesty international and the open society institute, turkmenistan is one of the lowest ranking countries in the world for many basic freedoms, including freedom of the press, freedom of expression and freedom of association. i am pleased that this resolution highlights that, although the minor changes brought in by president berdymukhamedov are welcome, the eu expects substantial improvements in human rights in turkmenistan.
in writing. − i voted against this interim agreement with turkmenistan despite my admiration of the work of the rapporteur, mr caspary. i had the opportunity to visit the country with a delegation from the committee on foreign affairs a couple of years ago when it was led by turkmenbashi and his book the ruhnama. since then the situation has improved marginally, but amnesty international, amongst other ngos, still exposes the serious problems and abuses of human rights in that country. the improvements have not gone far enough for me to be happy at this stage to vote in favour of the agreement.
in writing. − i voted against this report which wanted to give parliament's approval (assent) to an interim trade agreement between the eu and turkmenistan. the european parliament last year demanded that turkmenistan must reach five human rights benchmarks before it would give its assent to this agreement. these benchmarks are: allowing the red cross to work freely in the country; realigning the education system with international standards; releasing all political prisoners and prisoners of conscience; abolishing government impediments to travelling abroad; and, lastly, allowing free access to independent ngos and allowing the un human rights bodies to examine progress across the country. i am convinced that turkmenistan has not reached any of these benchmarks, and i am therefore very disappointed that assent was given for this interim trade agreement to be concluded.
in writing. − i would like to use this opportunity to explain one of the many reasons why i voted today to support closer trading links between the eu and turkmenistan. the eu’s common external energy security policy, which british conservatives fully support, acknowledges the importance of new trans-caspian pipeline routes for supplying europe with oil and gas. these trans-caspian routes should be fully integrated with the ‘southern corridor’ pipelines including nabucco, southstream and whitestream. reducing our dependence on russia’s energy supplies is crucial to our collective energy security and foreign policy. for that reason we should be proactive and committed to building a partnership with turkmenistan by supporting the interim trade agreement that helps to stimulate domestic reform and human rights improvements in that country
in writing. − as someone who has reservations regarding the long-term safety of nuclear power stations i am not entirely happy with this report. i accept that those who work in the industry are dedicated professionals. i accept accidents are few and far between. yet the problem is the consequences when there is an accident are potentially so extreme. we cannot forget the nuclear accident in the urals revealed by roy medvedev, the three mile island accident that involved the events of the film the china syndrome that went on release only days before the accident, nor the tokaimura accident in japan, nor finally chernobyl, whose consequences live with us all today but most tragically have been visited on the people and children living in the immediate vicinity or born to parents who were there.
in writing. − i will be supporting this report because we have accepted amendments 48 and 49 and rejected amendment 93 in regard to recreational fishing. to include recreational fishing in a member state fishing quota is for me unacceptable. if we are seriously saying that recreational fishing is destroying our fish stocks, then in my mind they are missing a fundamental issue as far as dwindling fish stocks are concerned. that issue is overfishing by industrial fishing concerns in their factory fishing vessels. they are the ones who we require to be compliant with the cfp and not recreational fishermen pursuing their hobby.
in writing. − the common fisheries policy is deeply flawed, and has been extremely detrimental to the british economy, and to the environment. whilst we acknowledge the need for new innovation to improve the situation, most such innovation and best practice has clearly originated with member states, and the fishermen themselves. we have therefore voted against this report, which gives increased competence to the commission.
in writing. − the common fisheries policy is deeply flawed, and has been extremely detrimental to the british economy and to the environment. whilst i acknowledge the need for new innovation to improve the situation, most such innovation and best practice has clearly originated with member states, and with the fishermen themselves. i have therefore voted against this report, which gives increased competence to the commission.
in writing. − british conservatives voted against this report on the basis that we do not accept the need for a common eu immigration policy and that the uk must retain absolute control over its national borders.
the council is, of course, welcome, but they have come for the next debate. (protests)however, i will make sure that the presidency-in-office understands the concerns of parliament, as expressed in the last debate about the budgetary discharge. i am sure the minister will take that message back to prague. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the joint debate on– the recommendation for second reading from the committee on transport and tourism on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for access to the international market for coach and bus services (recast) (11786/1/2008 - c6-0016/2009 - 2007/0097(cod)) (rapporteur: mathieu grosch) (a6-0215/2009),– the recommendation for second reading from the committee on transport and tourism on the common position adopted by the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing common rules concerning the conditions to be complied with to pursue the occupation of road transport operator and repealing council directive 96/26/ec (11783/1/2008 - c6-0015/2009 - 2007/0098(cod)) (rapporteur: silvia-adriana ţicău) (a6-0210/2009), and – the recommendation for second reading from the committee on transport and tourism on the common position adopted by the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for access to the international road haulage market (recast) (11788/1/2008 - c6-0014/2009 - 2007/0099(cod)) (rapporteur: mathieu grosch) (a6-0211/2009).
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank both rapporteurs for their work on this difficult dossier. it is clear that this package, and in particular the issue of lifting cabotage restrictions, has divided opinion along national lines, but i think what we have before us now is an agreement that we can support. i had serious concerns about full cabotage delivered in one move without any levelling-up of social costs, or indeed running costs, for individual hauliers. such a move, i believe, would have had a detrimental effect on the road haulage business, not only in my own country but in other member states as well. therefore the compromise introducing temporary cabotage is not only sensible, it is a solution that will be workable, allowing three domestic journeys after one international one. temporary cabotage also allows us to end the environmental nonsense of hgvs travelling hundreds of kilometres empty, without distorting domestic markets. finally, i am also happy to support the new enforcement measures that have been introduced via the ţicău report. this has to go hand in hand with further market opening, and will allow member states to practise tough and efficient enforcement measures.
mr president, another package of reports to keep eu committees busy, more pollution into a sea of unnecessary regulations. winston churchill said if you have 10 000 regulations you destroy all respect for the law. english respect is destroyed. a bbc poll shows 55% want to leave the eu and 84% want the uk to keep its powers. president pöttering confirmed the eu makes 75% of the law. in 35 years, that is more law than england has made since king richard iii in 1485. so, here we are, making legislation to correct legislation. where will it all end? the uk will leave the eu, be good neighbours and watch you in your sea of regulations from across the english channel, watching the eu die a death by a thousand self-inflicted truck directives.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i want to congratulate both our rapporteurs. a couple of years ago i was the rapporteur for access for disabled passengers to aeroplanes. this legislation is another piece in the jigsaw to make transport as inclusive as possible or, as our colleague mr albertini put it, to consolidate passenger rights. in an age when we are encouraging people to travel by public transport, it is so important that we add coaches and buses, as mr albertini has, to this field. some members, not necessarily those here today, have looked for ways to make exemptions to exclude certain sections, but i have always taken as my starting point the desire to include as much as possible in this so we move towards making europe more of a common market for people. that is why amendment 81 is so important. the commissioner in his remarks said we need the same rights for all passengers with no exceptions – and then he spoke about the exceptions, for example for regional transport. i do not think we should exempt regional transport, and i have done some research. in some of our member states a regional coach journey can take up to six hours, which is longer than an international coach journey from, say, london to brussels or paris. so i think it should be included. i think it is right that, where local transport – as mr jarzembowski has referred to – is not included, there are public service contracts which mean that the companies will reach the same sort of standards. i also think we need to persuade the construction industry to build more modern buses with the needs of disabled people more in mind. just as we have campaigned for aeroplanes to be more accessible to disabled people, so we need, perhaps, coaches with wider gangways or more accessible toilets, and we need the operating companies to make their coach terminals more accessible and to train their staff in disability and disability awareness issues. this is a good report. it is a good collection of reports, which takes us several steps forward, and i congratulate everyone who has been involved.
mr president, i would like to thank both rapporteurs for their work in this important area and also the commissioner for his support. passenger rights have always been a priority of the socialist group, and this proposal completes the set, following on from passenger rights in aviation and rail transport. it is vital that we all remember that the users of transport are the most important stakeholders – a fact often forgotten by some transport companies. now, for the first time, we will have a set of basic rights for bus, coach and ferry users that will ensure proper liability for cancellation and delays, lost or damaged luggage, as well as death in the event of accidents. perhaps more importantly, we will have a series of fundamental rights for people with reduced mobility and special needs that will put an end to the victimisation endured by these people at the hands of transport companies over many years. no longer will transport operators be able to exclude people with reduced mobility from their vehicles; no longer will people with reduced mobility have fewer rights than able-bodied people; no longer should people with reduced mobility be excluded from the public transport network. who has delivered this? not a national or regional parliament, but the european parliament. it is the european parliament that has put transport users at the top of our transport priorities. this is the european parliament putting people first, and that is something that, as socialists, we can strongly support.
this is an important citizens’ europe issue, especially in the recession. everyone wants and deserves the best deal going, whether they live in lisbon or london. is it not a disgrace that, 50 years after we established the common market, it is still possible, as reported by the british consumers’ association’s magazine which?, for someone to go on the web site of renfe, the spanish rail operator, and to pay 60% more on the english-language version than on the spanish-language version? surely that is not all to do with regulatory differences. will the commission also crack down on sheer exploitation?
commissioner, with over six million european citizens suffering from dementia and many millions more europeans having to care for them or being affected by this critical disease, i warmly welcome the commission’s decision to make this a public health priority. that was a comprehensive answer. but could i ask, when you discuss the disability action plan, that you as a commissioner and as a commission bear in mind that the effect of alzheimer’s is a cross-cutting effect across disability, the field of ageing and public health and that you maintain a comprehensive strategy, not just identifying alzheimer’s but including all the related aspects and that you maintain your priority? this is a public health emergency for an ageing population. but thank you for that comprehensive answer.
commissioner, thank you for your information on the commission’s activities. could i just ask one more question? during the election campaign there will be many lies told about the european union. some will be matters of opinion, and i would not expect the commission to interfere in those situations, but where outright lies are told about the community, will the commission establish a rapid rebuttal unit for the next two or three months, whereby either you can respond directly to lies and distortions about the european union, or candidates can approach you for factual information to rebut false statements about the activities of the community?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. − mr president, i should also like to congratulate the rapporteur and, for the first time in my 10 years in this place, to congratulate the commission on both its proposal and on the compromises it came forward with later. i come from a point of view where i like copyright. i believe copyright and patents protect people, businesses and intellectual property (ip), and intellectual property is the bedrock of entrepreneurial free market economies. people and companies happily invest time and money in the hope of finding a product – in this case, music – that people will like and want to buy. across the world societies with strong ip protection move forward. those that have fewer entrepreneurs and fewer patents just go backwards. now 38 000 session musicians in the united kingdom have signed a petition backing these proposals. session musicians deserve the help they will be getting from this proposal. there is one in my constituency, a guy called ted carroll – one of many hundreds of session musicians – who has written to me asking us to adopt these compromises. that is why i am strongly in favour of this report.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, this report has had a long, and at times complex, birth within parliament, subject to intense lobbying from all sides, and with myths and counterclaims being the order of the day. owing to the urgency and importance of getting this report adopted in this parliamentary term, the rapporteur and our fellow shadow rapporteur have worked hard to reach agreement on the key points in the council’s position. i therefore congratulate all those who have been involved in coming to a sensible, just and sustainable consensus. i am, however, disappointed that the council has failed time and again to reach any similar agreement. i am pleased, though, that the report meets my main aims and the objectives of the pse group, and that, if we are to have an extension of the copyright term of protection, increased revenues must first and foremost benefit the performers. that is why i am able to accept the compromise amendments tabled by the rapporteur, as there are extra measures for performers. i would like to single out some key amendments: amendment 58, which is a permanent ‘use it or lose it’ clause; amendments 59 to 61 on a permanent claim for session players, under which labels have to set aside 20% of all sales revenue; amendment 62 on a clean slate for featured artists; amendment 71 on the possibility for featured artists to renegotiate better contracts; and, finally, amendment 75 on an assessment of the impact on audiovisual performers. i would therefore like to ask colleagues who have reservations to reconsider and vote for this report. i recognise that it is not perfect and that there are concerns. in different circumstances i would have liked it to have addressed, especially for featured artists, the time period allowed for record labels under the ‘use it or lose it’ clause, which kicks in after a year rather than after a matter of months, which would have been preferable. to conclude, i would ask the council urgently to come to agreement on this issue. all the other key players have reached agreement, and performers need clarification sooner, rather than later.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, despite an enterprising charm offensive from the commissioner and his services, i still cannot support this proposal to extend the copyright term. i know the proposal was well meant, but in the digital era, when the way in which recordings are distributed is rapidly changing, why should we make an irreversible change by extending a system that, at its core, still operates with contracts and a structure more relevant to physical distribution and sale? the only hope to rescue that situation is to address the matter of contracts that have become unfair over time, and this has not been done. we should be making it clear that assignment for life without renewal clauses is no longer acceptable, and one of the prices recording companies must pay for any extension. a lot of commendable work has been done to impose good conditions in return for the extension, but i fear these bolt-on additions do not render it fully fit for the purpose in the long-term future, and they also contain their own inconsistencies and unfairness because they have not addressed the matter of contracts. i have looked for a compromise that i could live with, and i did offer the idea of limiting the term extension to recordings published before 1975, as appears in alde amendments 80 and 81, which are compatible with the main package. i admit that this is a fix for the rock-and-roll era, which is concentrating minds right now and which saw both an explosion in popular music and remarkably poor contracts. however, such an amendment would not put us in an irreversible position for all newer recordings. it would see us through to the end of the current model of recording companies, which are, when all is said and done, the main beneficiaries of, and agitators for, this extension. it would also give us time to reflect on and develop more performer- and future-oriented proposals really fit for a digital age. if you come back addressing the points that i have raised, then it could be a package worth voting for, but otherwise i cannot support it.
mr president, let me be clear: i support the extension of copyright from 50 to 70 years. my problem is: who benefits? i welcome the fact that, as demanded by the musicians’ union, session musicians are going to get 20% of the profits for distribution. the problem is the balance between the multinational record companies and the featured artists. many of these people signed contracts 30 or 40 years ago that gave them 8% of the dealer’s price, with the companies responsible for producing, distributing and collecting the money from sales. now these selfsame multinational record companies will get a multi-million-euro windfall for doing absolutely nothing because, in this new digital age, there is nothing to do. on the basis of an industrial structure long made redundant by technological change, it is the sheriff of nottingham winning, not robin hood. these artists should have been able to reclaim their property that they alone were responsible for creating.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by anne e. jensen, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the intelligent transport systems action plan (2008/2216(ini)) (a6-0227/2009), and– the report by anne e. jensen, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council laying down the framework for the deployment of intelligent transport systems in the field of road transport and for interfaces with other transport modes (com(2008)0887 - c6-0512/2008 - 2008/0263(cod)) (a6-0226/2009).
madam president, i speak as a civil engineer, and my son has a transport surveying business stretching right through the united kingdom. this matter is extremely important because, from europe, we can make sure that the latest technology impacts on the usefulness and efficiency of road transport in all its forms. this is one big growth area year by year. even in a recession time, we are forecasting something like a 55% increase between now and 2020 on freight and 35% on passenger cars, etc, and with that, of course, energy increases. so often, as elected members, we journey round our constituencies and find ourselves in traffic jams, and so often we have to make phone calls to find out what the situation is ahead. we need more data on the windscreens so that we can sort out our own salvations in a more effective and efficient manner. i wish mrs jensen and the commissioner every success.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by ulrich stockmann, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1692/2006 establishing the second ‘marco polo’ programme for the granting of community financial assistance to improve the environmental performance of the freight transport system (‘marco polo ii’) (com(2008)0847 - c6-0482/2008 - 2008/0239(cod)) (a6-0217/2009).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tomorrow.
the next item is the report by petr duchoň, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning a european rail network for competitive freight (com(2008)0852 – c6-0509/2008 – 2008/0247(cod)) (a6-0220/2009).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the report by john bowis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the application of patients’ rights in cross-border health care (com(2008)0414 – c6-0257/2008 – 2008/0142(cod)) (a6-0233/2009). as many of you know, john bowis was taken ill recently in brussels and was hospitalised. he had an operation, which i am pleased to say was a success, and he is now recovering, so he is an example of cross-border health care. his place is taken today by my friend and colleague, philip bushill-matthews.
rapporteur. − mr president, i have a very difficult task and a very easy task. it is very difficult because this dossier is very complicated and very sensitive, and it is a dossier on which, personally, i have done very little work. it is very easy because it is a report by my distinguished colleague, john bowis, who, as you say, is currently recovering from major heart surgery, undertaken a couple of weeks ago in brussels. he has done an amazing job in bringing this dossier to such a successful conclusion today and, indeed, in laying the foundations for this success in his original report on patient mobility way back in june 2005. i am sure he would also wish me to thank the commissioner personally for her support, to thank the shadow rapporteurs and to thank our group secretariat, and indeed his own research assistant, for the huge efforts they have all made to secure broad agreement on so many of the controversial issues. with their help, john has sought to shed light on what has been a very murky area, and to bring clarity where uncertainty prevailed before, based consistently on the twin principles that the patient must always come first and that patient choice should be determined by needs and not by means. for the last 10 years, european citizens have been going to the courts to fight for their right to go to another member state for treatment. it is clear that patients want this right, and that they deserve this right and are entitled to this right. they should not have to go to court in order to achieve it. the proposal before us now is our chance to make this a reality. now is the time for us, as politicians, to take our responsibility and to replace the need for the judges who have gone before, by creating legal certainty ourselves. most people will always want to be treated close to home. however, there will always be patients who wish to travel to another member state for treatment, for whatever reason. if patients do choose this option, we must make sure that the terms under which they do so are transparent and fair. we must make sure that they know how much they will be charged, what quality and safety standards they can expect and what rights they have if something goes wrong. this report addresses all these issues. let me be clear that this right for patients should in no way be detrimental to member states’ ability to provide quality health care for all their citizens. this report does not tell member states how they should organise their own health systems. it does not dictate what quality of care they should provide. in fact, it builds in safeguards for member states to help protect their own national health systems, for example by choosing a system of prior authorisation in certain circumstances. however, such prior authorisation must not be used to limit patient choice. indeed, the increased availability of cross-border health care should in turn help stimulate national systems to provide increasingly better standards of health care themselves. i look forward to the comments from colleagues in the debate which now follows.
i am sure ms filipiová will not object if i inform the house that she is, herself, a wheel-chair user.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − mr president, on behalf of the legal affairs committee we wanted to welcome this proposal and to underscore what it brings in terms of legal certainty, which is to be applauded, and also in terms of emphasising patient choice. but also we felt, as a committee – and i think this is important, given the concerns that have been expressed this morning – that it does respect subsidiarity and it does, therefore, respect the integrity of national health systems. the only area where we depart, perhaps, from the leading report is that we would have liked to have seen more done for those patients where things unfortunately go wrong. we feel that the applicable law regime and the jurisdiction rules that are set out are not clear enough: it could have been more patient-oriented to make sure, as we have done in other areas, that patients could bring claims in their country of residence and could receive compensation according to the law of their country of residence. it would be a good idea if this were looked at again.
mr president, i join in sending best wishes to our rapporteur, wishing him a speedy recovery and return. obtaining the best service for our constituents is, i am sure, in the interests of us all. however, for me it is vital that this directive get the balance right between freedom of movement versus patient safety and accountability. i have no interest in promoting medical tourism and believe, therefore, that national autonomy over regulatory aspects must be protected and that we must avoid a harmonisation of standards to the lowest possible denominator. we must also guard against increased pressure on local services to the detriment of indigenous patients, and that is particularly relevant in areas where there are specialisations which people would seek out. moreover, the issue of follow-up care after foreign treatment must be adequately addressed, because i have concerns that services such as physiotherapy and others could be overstretched because of follow-up care demands.
mr president, why should a patient have to lose their sight while waiting for a cataract operation in the uk, for instance, when it could be done quite easily in another member state? why should a person waiting in agony for a hip replacement not be able to take advantage of the lack of waiting lists in other member states – sometimes at a lesser cost to the country of origin? and why do some heart patients needlessly have to wait months for surgery to unblock arteries? if a clinician advises treatment and this cannot be provided at home, then we do need a legal framework to ensure that they can seek it elsewhere. all too often – as has been said already – it is the poorest people who face discrimination and inequality in access to health care. that is why i am delighted that the rapporteur has accepted my amendment to make it clear that member states have a responsibility to authorise and pay for treatment in another country. we must not restrict cross-border health care just to those who can afford it. neither must we exclude disabled people, which is why i am delighted that many of my amendments on this point have been accepted. the rights and safety of patients must come first. that, again, is why i am pleased that the rapporteur supported my amendments on the regulation of health professionals. i would remind members of this house that these proposals build in safeguards to what is already a right for eu citizens under a european court judgment a few years ago. finally, i would like to wish john bowis a speedy recovery. his experience shows the importance of cooperation between eu member states.
mr president, i have had a problem with this directive for quite some time, because the title does not actually reflect what is going on within the directive. some of the speeches we have heard today about job creation schemes etc. reinforce my concerns. a lot of the issues involved are, as we know, issues about choice and payment, and this is therefore as much about social security as it is about health care. this week, we actually updated the regulation that is the part of our system that already ensures cooperation and already ensures that, if there is an urgent need, health care cannot be refused in another member state. i would urge members to read what that regulation now says. this directive is about choice. it is about money following patients’ choices, and i would urge people not to confuse the two different systems, as certain of the amendments do. in my opinion, because we have these two different philosophies we also need a double legal base.
mr president, most of my london constituents have little interest in or knowledge of what an mep actually does or what purpose the eu serves. this week, however, there are two plenary reports where the public can genuinely resonate with their content. the first is the cap on roaming charges in the telecoms package, and the second is patients’ rights for elective medical treatment in other eu countries. i, too, would like to support my london colleague john bowis’s report. he cannot be with us today, sadly, because of his ill health, and i wish him a speedy recovery, and he will, of course, be greatly missed in the next parliament. in the uk, nhs treatment is often delayed and very expensive compared with other eu countries. a more flexible eu market, with reasonable authorisation safeguards in health care, is a win-win situation both for the general public and also for the national health budgets of the member states.
deputising for the rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to thank all colleagues for – if they will pardon the pun – a very healthy debate. i should particularly like personally to thank – and my apologies for not mentioning this earlier – the rapporteurs from the six committees, who have produced such valuable opinions, for their comments and their insights this morning. i must also thank all colleagues across the house for their warm tributes to john bowis, both professionally for his work, and personally, through their good wishes for his speedy recovery, which i shall be delighted to pass on. like all reports, this one is based on compromises, and it is not always possible for everybody to agree on everything. i recognise and respect the fact that there are still some difficulties for some political groups and, indeed, some delegations, and so there are still a number of amendments to be decided in plenary later this morning. i should therefore like to thank the commissioner in particular for her concluding comments, which hopefully will make it easier for some colleagues in other groups to decide how to vote. i sincerely hope that, as a result of those comments, the overall report will receive widespread positive support across and within political groups, because making patient needs a priority should surely be above party politics. i recognise that any agreement today will come too late for a formal first-reading agreement during the czech presidency, but i understand that there is already substantial political agreement within the council in principle, thanks to the work the presidency has already done, and i wish to thank it for that. i know that john would wish this agreement to be translated into action sooner rather than later, and so, indeed, would many patients across the eu who have already waited long enough. on behalf of the rapporteur, i call on the commission, the incoming council presidency and, indeed, on the incoming meps in the next mandate to make an early second reading a real priority in the second half of this year, so that any remaining difficulties can be rapidly resolved. we do not want to lose momentum now. this report will not only bring real benefits to real people across the eu but will show that by working together at eu level people can benefit individually wherever they may live and irrespective of their means. the vote today will light the road ahead. let us move down that road together as fast as we practicably can, because, after all, like the rapporteur, colleagues might never know when they may suddenly need such cross-border health care themselves.
in writing. – the proposal for a cross border health-care system must be first and foremost a system which respects patients’ rights, which is based on public health as well as internal market principles and which does not discriminate against patients based on ability to pay for medical treatment. from my own perspective, i believe that the national health service in the uk must have the right to insist on the prior authorisation by patients wishing to benefit from medical treatment abroad. uk patients that cannot afford to travel abroad for medical treatment must not be discriminated against by those who can afford the up-front medical costs but who plan to reclaim these costs from the nhs on their return to the uk. i see this practice as unfair as it allows patients to get priority treatment abroad, thereby ‘jumping the queue’ within the nhs system.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i think that this recommendation is a very good example of the added value that the european union can bring to health care where, although we have limited competences, bringing together experts from member states can really make a difference to peoples’ lives. as mr trakatellis said, the figures that the commissioner spoke about, on adverse reactions to medical care and on health-care-associated infections, are quite shocking. nobody should go into hospital and come out more ill than they were in the first place and many of us will know people who have had this problem. it is a problem right across the european union, and that is why it is extremely important that your initiative on health-care-associated infections should go ahead. i think that we have a lot to learn from each other, and we can certainly avoid a lot of problems for our citizens if we work together to tackle this issue and bring the best heads in europe together. the second point i want to talk about is one mentioned very briefly in our parliamentary report, and that is needle-stick injuries. i know the commission has been looking at this issue for a long time now, and there is a cooperation between employers and trade unions on this issue, but we still have a situation where an estimated one million workers in the health services across europe are affected by needle-stick injuries. this could be avoided if the needles they were using were replaced with a safer kind. i hope, madam commissioner, that you will be returning to the commission and that in the new parliament session you will bring forward a proposal on needle-stick injuries, which is very important for many health-care workers and is a very avoidable problem in our health-care system.
mr president, i rise to draw attention to rule 28(2) of our rules of procedure, which says that any member can ask the president of parliament a question and receive an answer within 30 days. i put a question to the president of parliament on 19 march. today is 23 april. not only have i had no answer, but his office refused to respond to my e-mails. i would like you to ask the president of parliament why he shows such contempt for the rules of this parliament and for the rights of members, and i would like you to ask him to give me an answer within the next 24 hours; otherwise i shall get up tomorrow and ask the same question. (applause)
mr president, can i reply to mr cohn-bendit’s point and mr hans-peter martin’s point? i think that there is a simple solution. i can quite happily declare myself as a participant in the voluntary pension scheme, along with 399 other members, and i intend to vote against my own interests and in favour of the taxpayers’ interests. the simple solution is for the other 399 members to do the same.
mr president, i am sorry to trouble colleagues in a long voting session, but it has been newly marked on the voting list that amendment 80 to a recital falls if amendment 37 is passed. the first half of the amendment is exactly the same but the new bit – the second part – is consistent. amendment 81, which is the corresponding amendment to the article, is not marked as falling when the corresponding article amendment, 55, is passed. therefore, i would request that we vote on amendment 80 as an addition to 37, if members like it – which is a different matter – as it looks like we are also doing with amendment 81.
rapporteur. − mr president, i agree with that proposal, but, just for the sake of clarity, could you mention those amendments covered by the legal base – 159, 119 etc.? the ‘etc.’ should also include the recital, which is amendment 126.
rapporteur. − mr president, apologies to colleagues for introducing it at this late stage, but the reason is one of simple clarification. amendment 100 refers to the responsibility of member states to exchange information about disciplinary and criminal findings against health professionals. this is absolutely appropriate, but it has been brought to my attention at the last minute that this could be construed as saying that if such health professionals were involved in any traffic offences, for example, then member states would have a responsibility to share information about that. that clearly is not the intention of the amendment and so, for clarification, the wording proposed would now read: ‘member states shall, immediately and proactively, exchange information about disciplinary and criminal findings against health professionals where they impact upon their registration or their right to provide services’. so this is purely a matter for clarification.
rapporteur. − mr president, i accept your ruling – it is your right to make such a ruling – but because earlier ms liotard said that we would need to have a dual base, because, otherwise, if it was only the internal market, that meant we would only be voting on economic issues, without trying to open up the debate again. i would just correct her to say the single legal base that we currently have is not just economic: it is about freedom of choice for patients’ rights. therefore, our group will be voting against a dual legal base, both for these original amendments, and indeed the recital. i would encourage other colleagues to put the patients first.
mr president, very briefly, i am trying to be helpful, but am getting hungry. these are important votes and it is a very full agenda and i have every sympathy with you. i have just been down to the press room and i note that eight journalists are actually listening to the vote – others may be watching on the screens, where every single vote is being broadcast. i therefore think that to read out the result of every vote is not necessary. (applause)
rapporteur. − mr president, it was because of the last intervention – which was very well-intentioned – that you omitted your normal practice, which was to thank the rapporteur. i am sure that you would wish to do that, especially in his absence.
mr president, every day more and more of my constituents find it nigh impossible to make ends meet. then i pick up a report like this and i discover that eur 1.6 billion of european taxpayers’ money has been spent on this edifice that is the european parliament, then i discover that eur 9.3 million has been lavished upon the political parties in the european parliament, and then i look and see a reaffirmation of a commitment to a 30% reduction in carbon emissions by 2020, but not a single mention of the most outrageous emission of all – that which flows from the unnecessary travel to this place, 12 times a year. this report is appalling in what it exposes as regards the conduct of this parliament.
mr president, let me put mr allister’s comments into context: the european parliament costs each citizen gbp 1.74 – i say ‘pounds’ for the benefit of mr allister – per year. by comparison, the house of commons costs each of its citizens gbp 5.75 per year; the house of lords gbp l.77 for each citizen of the united kingdom. in other words, this parliament is far cheaper to operate per citizen. however, that does not mean we must rest on our laurels. of course we should be vigilant, and of course we should cut costs. the point made by mr allister about the 12 part-sessions a year costing so much money in strasbourg is, of course, a correct observation. but this decision does not lie in the hands of the european parliament: it lies in the hands of the member states, who, unfortunately – in edinburgh, under the chairmanship of john major – made it a legal obligation for the european parliament to come here 12 times a year. i would call on the member states to reconsider that decision.
mr president, this is on the question of the discharge to the council. it raises again this gentlemen’s agreement, which dates from before direct elections, that parliament and the council, as two branches of the legislative authority, each retain fully the responsibility for their own internal budget without each other looking at each other’s budget internally or criticising it. i think the time has come for us to re-examine this gentlemen’s agreement, not least because the budget of the council now includes not only its administrative budget as an institution, as a co-legislature with us, but also contains a budget which potentially will get bigger in the future for executive functions in the field of common foreign and security policy. the gentlemen’s agreement was never intended to apply to executive functions. it was never intended to shield that from parliamentary scrutiny, and i think it is high time that we enter into talks with the council to reconsider that agreement.
mr president, we have just voted through the funding for a vast array of euro-agencies and quangos – the medicines agency, the external borders agency, the aviation safety agency, and so on – and it seems to me that these are objectionable on three grounds. there is the euro-sceptic argument against them, there is the legal argument against them and there is the democratic argument. the euro-sceptic argument i do not expect will have much traction in this house. it is the very obvious point that these things do not need to be done at brussels level. the legal argument again i do not expect to have much traction: it is that a lot of these agencies, although they would have been given legal force by the lisbon treaty or european constitution, have no proper legal base at the moment. but the democratic argument i think might have some echo of authenticity even with federalist colleagues and it is this. when a parliament like this contracts out the day-to-day administration of its policies to organisations that we barely visit, that we almost never see – we get the odd committee visit maybe once a year – and we expect them to be carrying out the policy with our signing the cheques obligingly every year, we have diminished our democracy. hayek said that the devolution of power to external agencies, while a regular feature, is nonetheless the first step by which a democracy surrenders its powers. colleagues here, federalist or euro-sceptic, should all be aware of the danger.
today we mark the anniversary of the greatest of all englishmen and perhaps the greatest dramatist and writer mankind has produced. it is a characteristic of shakespeare’s work that, whatever experiences we carry to them, they always illuminate our experiences more than our experiences illuminate the plays. i can do no better today than to quote john of gaunt’s dying speech from richard ii, which not only beautifully describes our budgetary problems in britain but also our situation here in europe. first, on the budget:‘this land of such dear souls, this dear dear land [...]is now leased out – i die pronouncing it – like to a tenement or pelting farm.’ but then listen to his description of the lisbon treaty or european constitution:‘england, bound in with the triumphant sea,whose rocky shore beats back the watery siegeof envious neptune, is now bound in with shame,with inky blots and rotten parchment bonds. that england that was wont to conquer othershath made a shameful conquest of itself.’ if there is a better description than that, i have yet to hear it.
mr president, when we vote on issues in the european parliament we should always be sure that we take the moral lead. it is quite right for us to be talking about energy efficiency. frankly, i have no problem with that at european level, national level or local level. i think more of it can be done at local government level, but it is good to share best practice and ideas at the european and national level. however, in taking that lead, we have to show moral leadership. how can we talk about the energy efficiency of buildings when we continue to operate out of two parliament chambers, one here in strasbourg and one in brussels? what about the co2 emissions of the parliament in strasbourg, when we are talking about tens of thousands of tons of co2 emissions every year? it is time to stop the hypocrisy, to show leadership and to close down the strasbourg parliament.
mr president, let me start by paying tribute to my colleague, john bowis, and i am sure we all wish him a speedy recovery. thank goodness that he was able to take advantage of a health-care system from another country. he, a british citizen, was able to take advantage of the excellent health-care service in belgium. these are a few steps in the right direction for citizens right across the eu to be able to make a decision on where to go for health-care services. if patients are given information about the recovery rates for different diseases in a number of different countries, and they are given the choice, then they are able to choose in which country they would recover best. to take advantage of those health-care services is a positive step in the right direction. i have often criticised some of the initiatives that we discuss in this place, but i think this is a positive move. we look forward to offering choice and greater service to patients right across the european union.
in writing. − british conservatives have been unable to approve discharge of the 2007 european budget, section i, european parliament. we are insistent that the parliamentary budget must deliver value for money for the european taxpayer and we are, therefore, supportive of most of the rapporteur's report. in particular, we note with approval the progress that has been made in the implementation of the parliament's budget, as recorded by the court of auditors' report 2007. we also support the rapporteur's remarks regarding the members' voluntary pension fund. however, in line with our traditional approach, we will continue to vote against granting discharge until we see real progress towards the achievement of an unqualified statement of assurance from the european court of auditors.
in writing. − i accept the need to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, and i am persuaded that the eu can play a positive role in this respect. in fact, i think this report does not attach enough importance to the energy efficiency of buildings in the wider context of addressing environmental concerns such as climate change. making buildings more energy efficient is relatively simple, relatively low cost and relatively beneficial. making buildings more energy efficient would also have a massive positive impact on carbon emissions in the eu. however, the european commission has consistently sidelined energy efficiency as a flagship policy in favour of hammering the motor industry. i am convinced that making car manufacturers the scapegoats for climate change is a deeply flawed and counterproductive policy. sadly, in my constituency of north-east england, nissan has recently announced job losses and a scaling back of production. it would be naïve to ignore the role of eu regulation in the current crisis afflicting the car industry. this crisis could largely have been averted with a more balanced eu environmental policy that attached appropriate importance to the energy efficiency of buildings.
in writing. − i welcome the initiative to ensure the effectiveness of energy performance of buildings. clearly there is a balance to be had between the necessity of action to prohibit co2 emissions where we can, and economic costs. the idea of energy certification of such buildings is one of the key issues which can help drive consumption in an informed way.
in writing. − while the credit rating agencies have to accept some degree of blame for the failures in the securitisation of sub-prime mortgages which led to the financial crisis, it is with some regret that the uk conservative delegation has voted to accept the plans to regulate the cras drawn up in the gauzès report. cras should not be seen as a scapegoat, given that equally at fault were the banking and regulatory culture that relegated risk strategies to the back rooms. we hope that the eu, the united states and the cras can work together to create a system that operates properly. for this to happen, a heavy-handed regulatory approach needs to give way to one that accepts the element of risk in all investments and which allows a degree of acceptance of ratings undertaken outside the scope of what we have today voted. above all, it needs to be flexible enough to adapt to new circumstances and to let the market breathe.
in writing. − the g20 recommendations to the working group on financial services clearly call for greater transparency and regulation of credit rating agencies. this report, which was a response from the european parliament to the g20, is the right balance. however, there is some question that remains on the level of competence that cesr will have to demonstrate if they are to play a central role in such regulation.
in writing. − conservatives welcome the overall aim of improving passenger rights, access for the disabled and creating a level playing field for international bus users, and for this reason voted in favour of the report. however we would have liked to see an exemption to regional services as the uk has liberalised markets that have moved beyond public service contracts to open competition. in addition, the proposal does not appear to recognise the local nature of bus services operating in border areas. conservatives also have concerns about the proportionality of certain aspects of the proposed regulation, particular the liability provisions. unlike the rail and aviation sectors, the bus and coach industry consists of a significant number of small and medium enterprises with limited resources.
in writing. − it is not fair that composers of songs or the designer who does the artwork for the cd get protection of their rights for their life plus 70 years, while the performer currently only has 50 years from publication. the term has not kept up with life expectancy, meaning that musicians lose the benefit for their work just as they retire and most need the income. talented musicians are being short-changed by the current system. 38 000 performers asked for our support to redress this discrimination. this is about the equalisation of rights for ordinary working musicians. i regret that there have been many false claims about this legislation. at a time of economic downturn we need to support our creative industries and artists who contribute to our gdp, jobs, growth and global exports. this law will do much to help poor musicians who deserve to be treated equally. i hope the council and commission can accept the parliament vote to bring in this law before the end of this parliamentary term.
in writing. − although i strongly support the idea of copyright extension, this proposal has become unfit for purpose. the eu has shown its inability to address the problem in a logical and efficient way, and so i have voted to reject it.
in writing. − i congratulate the rapporteur and the european commission for their courage in trying to prioritise rail freight throughout the eu. personally i would have liked a more radical proposal, one that would have put in place a strategy that included priority pathways on certain routes and a recognition from the rest of the railway industry that rail freight is important, needs developing and must be supported. two areas are stifling rail freight in europe. firstly, the real lack of interoperability, particularly in signalling; and secondly, the railway industry itself – in particular, passenger operators and infrastructure providers who collude with each other to ensure that rail freight is placed at the bottom of the pile when it comes to pathing and timetabling. at least this report is a start in ending that comfortable marriage of convenience that exists and giving rail freight operators at least a chance in developing their business. if we allow the status quo to remain, there will be no rail freight left in twenty years’ time. we must act now to make rail freight viable, attractive and competitive, or we will never be able to get freight off the road.
in writing. − i applaud the work of my colleague john bowis on this dossier, which represents a landmark in patients’ rights. conservatives support patient mobility within the eu and see it as a way of strengthening public healthcare provision. it is perhaps instructive that this issue first came to prominence because of a case in the uk’s national health service. a woman who chose to travel to france for a hip replacement when her local health authority kept her waiting too long was denied reimbursement back home. but she took her case to the european court of justice, which established an important principle – that patients have the right to travel to another eu member state for treatment and then be reimbursed by their national public healthcare provider. i am no fan of the ecj, which is a major factor in the eu’s constant accumulation of new powers, but this ruling was immensely significant. i hope many of my constituents who have been badly let down by the labour government’s mismanagement of the nhs will be able to benefit from the ideas in this report.
in writing. − on behalf of the british labour delegation in the european parliament i welcome many of the positive aspects of the parliament’s report on the proposal for a directive on cross-border healthcare. in particular, we support the amendments which make it clear that national governments will remain fully responsible for organising their national healthcare systems and setting out the rules of treatment. however, we remain concerned that the rules as drafted are not clear enough. patients travelling to another eu country for treatment must know whether they will be reimbursed and have all the necessary information on the type and quality of healthcare in the host country. the labour delegation therefore calls for the directive to make it clear that member states can establish a system of prior authorisation. we also support a dual legal base of articles 152 and 95 to make sure health issues, rather than internal market concerns, are the priority. the labour delegation abstained on the final vote to indicate that these two concerns need to be addressed at second reading.
in writing. − i abstained on this report because it does not give enough of a guarantee on the protection of the integrity and funding of britain's national health service, nor will it provide certainty or clarity for the minority of patients who can afford to travel to take up healthcare in another eu member state. the tory meps in the european parliament have one objective in mind with their proposal to reintroduce their discredited health voucher system by the european back door; under their proposals the wealthy few would get vouchers to take nhs money out of the uk for private treatment in the rest of europe. people paying their taxes expect to see their money invested in the nhs to pay for healthcare at home, not being diverted to other eu health systems. it is no surprise that, only recently, tory mep dan hannan advocated a privatised approach to healthcare. in a recent debate on cross-border health payments between britain and ireland, the tory shadow health minister andrew lansley said that nhs resources are always precious and attacked the payment of gbp 180 million of nhs money to ireland. however, the tories have failed to back our proposal for a clear prior authorisation system, which is crucial to protect precious nhs resources and nhs services.
in writing. − the key amendments on prior authorisation failed. these amendments were essential to the preservation of the nhs in scotland and the uk as a whole. we lost the vote on the dual legal base, which would have allowed public health to be included rather than the legal base solely being the single market. due to the loss of both these key areas and the fact that this is first reading, i had no option but to abstain.
in writing. − i will be voting for the report by mr trakatellis. i recognise the fact that there are many rare diseases that are orphaned from research as medical institutes engage in a form of triage, ignoring the plight of those suffering from unusual diseases that offer little in the way of profits compared to those potentially available from common diseases. this is particular true of rare genetic diseases that are hereditary. i believe we should encourage research in these areas by underpinning an element of the research costs. in doing this i declare an interest in that one of these diseases is to be found within my family.
in writing. − british conservatives have been unable to approve discharge of the 2007 european budget, section iii, european commission. we are insistent that the parliamentary budget must deliver value for money for the european taxpayer and we are, therefore, supportive of the rapporteur's report. in particular, we support the rapporteur's criticism of the commission's failure to ensure that bulgaria and romania achieve adequate standards of financial control. however, we must point out that for fourteen consecutive years the european court of auditors has been unable to give an unqualified statement of assurance for the general european accounts. the european commission bears ultimate responsibility for the accounts and therefore, in line with our traditional approach, we will continue to vote against granting discharge until we see real progress towards the achievement of an unqualified statement of assurance from the european court of auditors.
in writing. − british conservatives are opposed to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i dispute the notion that the eu can bestow and regulate fundamental rights. i am also especially opposed to the charter of fundamental rights because it has been adopted by the eu despite the fact that neither of the vehicles intended for the charter’s implementation – the eu constitution and the lisbon treaty – has been ratified. setting up an agency to oversee the charter of fundamental rights was a colossal waste of taxpayers’ money and an exercise in vanity. in fact, the same could be said for many of the eu’s agencies, which duplicate work done at national level and unashamedly promote the eu’s federalist agenda. many people in my constituency see the huge sums wasted on this and other agencies as a kick in the teeth, especially at a time of economic crisis when they are giving up increasing amounts of their money in tax to fund the eu’s profligacy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the g20 was a massively missed opportunity for tackling both the environmental crisis and the economic crisis at the same time – in other words for introducing what we are calling a ‘green new deal’. that meeting should have been the moment for a massive investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency, for example, not just because we have to urgently address the challenge of climate change, but because investment in green technologies is one of the best ways of getting people back to work. green energy, for example, is far more jobs-rich than investment in business as usual, yet the package agreed by the g20 will actually lock the world into a high-carbon economy at exactly the time that we should be shifting to a very different low-carbon sustainable economy. billions of euros were found for the imf and the world bank, but for making that vital transition to a green economy there was no serious money on the table, just vague aspirations – just talks about talks. the communiqué’s words about climate change and the low-carbon economy were relegated to just two paragraphs at the end of the communiqué, with no specific commitments. it is a tragedy that, at the very moment when the economic system and the global environment are on a collision course, this crucial opportunity to change direction and to make sure that we tackle both of those crises and get people back to work was lost.
mr president, i should like to draw the attention of colleagues to the presence in the gallery today of the leaders of the three opposition parties represented in moldova’s parliament, who are here for this debate: dorin chirtoacă, who is the mayor of chişinău and the vice-president of the liberal party of moldova; vladimir filat, who is the president of the liberal democratic party, and serafim urechean, the president of the alliance ‘our moldova’. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, moldova’s state brings back miserable memories of europe’s unhappy past: a communist government declaring victory on its own terms, protesters beaten and killed, accusations that neighbours are orchestrating unrest. if there is real evidence that the romanian security service has stoked violence, then that should be subject to scrutiny by the international community. this parliament’s mission next week must seek evidence regarding reports of 200 000 additional ballots printed, allegations that 400 000 voters registered on election day with inadequate id, and claims that voters in transnistria were disenfranchised en masse. until those are investigated, until the osce reports, many will simply not believe the results, whatever moldova’s courts conclude. it may be that commissioner ferrero-waldner’s instinctive optimism proves misplaced. president voronin should also denounce the detention, beatings and extrajudicial killing of young people randomly rounded up after the protests. no more obstacles to lawyers or ngos, no more withholding the names and numbers of those detained. i would like the commission to confirm whether moldova’s expulsion of romania’s ambassador and demand for visas from travellers breaks the agreements our union has with that country. if so, what action will the commission take? president băsescu’s announcement on passports also added to tensions. we must show sensitivity to bilateral relations but, nonetheless, insist agreements are honoured. our moldovan visitors today describe a country where, in so many ways, freedom and democracy are denied, where the internet mysteriously malfunctions, where television channels vanish from the airwaves, where state tv broadcasts belly dancing rather than reporting violence on the streets. our union, while mindful of the geopolitics, must understand the politics of moldova, a people keen to exercise democracy and freedom of choice, a country trading overwhelmingly with the countries to its west, a land linked to member states of the union through geography, history and culture. next month, as our leaders gather for the eastern partnership summit, they should make sure they build partnership on the basis of democracy and human rights. president voronin and his comrades must commit to that cause. our union must demand it.
madam president, moldova remains one of the poorest countries in europe, with a fragile democracy led by president voronin, who is an unreconstructed homo sovieticus, who still proudly calls himself a communist and who, sadly, is ambivalent towards the eu even in terms of the eastern partnership. nevertheless, he remains popular, particularly in the rural areas and among the older generation nostalgic for the security of the ussr in these uncertain economic times. the osce troika, which included our own ep delegation, basically endorsed his victory, so we just have to accept this fact, even though we must strongly protest the repressive crackdown against the opposition demonstrators who accused the government of monopolising the media during the campaign, using an outdated and unreliable electoral register – including many people who are supposed to be dead –and the disenfranchisement of the large diaspora abroad who were not able to vote. right now we must concentrate on the human rights violations, which must be fully investigated by a mission of the european union if moldova wants to continue to receive our support in its eu–atlantic aspirations.
mr president, the ibrisagic report of course emphasises that stability in the western balkans is our major priority. in fact, in my opinion, eu membership is the glue which binds the region together in peace and stability. we still expect croatia to be the next country to join the eu, if slovenia settles its border dispute, unless of course tiny iceland is fast-tracked in beforehand. however, in reality things are slightly more tricky, with post-dayton bosnia and herzegovina still far from becoming a true nation and with greece blocking macedonia’s progress over the name issue. added to this we have the credit crunch and german and french general objections to any further enlargement without the lisbon treaty being ratified, though in my view this is merely a pretext to stop all enlargement. the decision by many eu countries and the us to recognise kosovo as an independent country has also created new dividing lines in a region that has suffered so grievously from division in the past. we know already that kosovo is unable to join the eu, as some member states will not recognise it, and there is a similar story about joining the un. in contrast, neighbouring serbia, montenegro and macedonia are progressing slowly towards eventual eu membership. thus kosovo could end up as an isolated enclave, deprived of eu membership but bankrolled by eu taxpayers for decades to come. the attempt to solve an issue by international unilateral fiat has caused more problems than it has solved, especially in the region itself. a more balanced and measured approach could have ultimately enabled the people of kosovo to enjoy the benefits of eu membership. patience in all matters is a virtue, not least in foreign policy.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for all her cooperation in the passage of this report through the committee on employment and social affairs. i was rapporteur, as you know, on the un convention on behalf of the european parliament in 2003 as the un convention was being drafted. we have since achieved a legally binding convention which, i believe, is historic. that is a milestone in itself, but what i said in 2003 i will say again. if the eu is to have any credibility in this debate, it must lead by example. international human rights treaties are of no use whatsoever if countries do not sign, ratify and implement. yes, all member states have signed, but they have not all signed the protocol. most of them have not ratified, and they certainly have not implemented – something we have called for in numerous parliamentary reports. the uk government – my own government – for example, has again missed its own deadline of last year for ratifying the convention, which is an absolute disgrace. to my mind this is shameful. i would like to see the commission and parliament keeping up the pressure on member states to ratify and implement. this convention has the potential to empower millions of disabled people in the eu. we must now do all we can to make it a reality.
mr president, i am very proud to have been at the launch at sadler’s wells in 2001 of the campaign for the convention. i am very proud that members across this parliament have played a leading role in supporting the creation of the convention. i am very proud to have been with the human rights subcommittee in geneva at the human rights commission and council to lobby for its agreement. i am very proud that the european commission and the european communities have signed up to a human rights instrument for the first time. i am very proud that it is the swiftest-agreed convention in the history of the united nations, but most of all i am very proud that disabled people and disabled people’s organisations have played a full part in its consideration and its agreement. our support for ratification this week should make clear three points. firstly, in becoming the eighth ratifier, the european union is saying to the eu member states that they too should ratify and implement, including the optional protocol. secondly, commissioner, we and the european commission, across all its competencies, should screen existing policies and procedures to make sure that we comply with the convention and act accordingly. (the president cut off the speaker.)
the next item is question time (b6-0227/09). the following questions are addressed to the council.
question no 2 by gay mitchell (h-0130/09) subject: anti-lisbon rhetoric the global financial crisis has shown us just how imperative it is to have a strong european union. we have learnt quickly in ireland that myths and disinformation about the lisbon treaty will be small comfort in a shrinking economy and with rising unemployment. with the eu presidency held by the czech republic, and the country's own president espousing anti-lisbon rhetoric, how does the council intend to reconcile these messages with the patent need for greater, rather than less, eu cooperation?
it is our normal procedure for you to reply firstly to the questioner and his supplementary question and then, normally, i will – and that is my decision – take the other supplementary questions together and put them to you. i should be obliged if you would answer first.
does the czech presidency not agree that the problem in the case of the lisbon treaty is not so much a lack of information about it, since the information is there and is available, but the considerable amount of misinformation wilfully put about by the opponents of the treaty? given that the treaty is not being signed by the european institutions but was negotiated by the member states, does it not also agree that the national governments must do much more to counter the myths and misinformation that mr mitchell referred to and get their act together in this vital debate for the future of europe?
minister, i am sure that in your country, as in ireland, voters sense and worry about the orwellian feel to the eu at the moment. they are not stupid, and they know that the commission gerrymandered its legislative agenda so that no bad news entered the irish media’s bloodstream. it is a shame that mr mitchell, mr corbett and others are so blinded by the glittering prizes of being successful eurocrats that they miss the point: that the people of ireland have delivered their decision. perhaps, sir, you could get the council to instruct the commission to stop the massive growth of its communication and information – otherwise known as propaganda – departments, and allow the results delivered by the wonderful irish people to stand and prove that democracy lives in the european union.
question no 3 by manuel medina ortega (h-0132/09) subject: double taxation in view of the recent case-law of the court of justice concerning double taxation, what measures does the council intend to propose in order to harmonise european tax law so that european citizens do not have to pay twice for the same taxable transaction?
we all understand that these issues on taxation can be very technical, but in general will the minister agree that anyone who understands these issues will surely see that tax harmonisation is not essential to avoid double taxation? all that is required – i know it is quite technical – is a will for better cooperation between member states. given the amount of money that governments are currently taking away from hard-pressed taxpayers, surely it is time to encourage more tax competition to reduce the burden on working families across the european union.
question no 5 by marian harkin (h-0136/09) subject: poultry meat in light of commission proposal com(2008)0336 for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets as regards the marketing standards for poultry meats, would the czech presidency agree that in the interest of food and consumer safety, traceability and product quality that all poultry meat sold as 'fresh' must provide consumers with a guarantee of freshness. would the presidency agree that there is a serious problem with regard to poultry meat that is slaughtered and frozen in a third country, transported and defrosted — and in some cases processed — in an eu country, and subsequently marketed and sold as 'fresh' eu produce. would it agree that this is not acceptable and is misleading to the consumer and unfair to eu producers who adhere to strict eu guidelines? what steps is the czech presidency currently taking to ensure the smooth adoption of this regulation?
question no 9 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0144/09) subject: crisis management and small- and medium-sized undertakings the european crisis management programme includes assistance for small undertakings under the small business act. in this connection, what actions have been taken to date and what further actions are being planned?
question no 10 by avril doyle (h-0145/09) subject: outcome of the spring council on financing a global climate deal in light of last week's spring summit, is the presidency satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations which took place on providing financial assistance to developing countries to further a global climate change deal at the cop-15 in copenhagen this december?
thank you, mrs doyle. i am intrigued to know that you had the answer in advance. that is a practice i have wished to encourage from both council and commission for a very long time, so congratulations to you both on achieving that. (interjection from avril doyle: ‘that is because they thought we would not reach question 10!)
while i have the opportunity, i will press the point, because it does seem to me that if answers to questions that we think we are not going to reach can be provided in advance then there is no reason why the questions that we are going to reach should not have the answers in advance, so that we can have – as we just had now – a better and more helpful exchange. thank you both for demonstrating that, which has made the point that many of us have long sought to make. questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − mr president, could i say that the commissioner showed a good understanding of the construction industry. all i would say is that i think it represents a larger percentage of overall gdp, something like 12% or 13%, and of materials, say, 4 or 5%, so it is a very important sector. i am a civil engineer by background and it was a privilege to do the opinion on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy. i was delighted that at the end there was total, unanimous support for the opinion that we put down. we looked at the technical matters more than the marketing because, overall, it is really an internal market approach that we are discussing tonight. the construction industry does need a regulation after 20 years of having the directive in place. i would emphasise the need for more ce marking, which is absolutely essential. we do not want to see any more national standards and i wish this whole process every success for the future. it is a very important measure in a very important industry.
rapporteur. − madam president, over the past decade, laws and practices have been introduced enabling the retention and exchange of huge volumes of personal data. currently the eu itself is proposing a number of measures that facilitate profiling, a technique of pulling together data from various sources in order to make a sort of template against which are identified those people whose characteristics, behaviour or associates seem suspicious and who merit further screening as likely perpetrators of crime or terrorism. there has also been a move in policing towards a predictive and preventive approach which, while not without value in some circumstances, can lead to repressive measures against innocent people based on stereotyping, often on the basis of race or even religion. the reason i am concerned about profiling and data-mining is because they depart from the general rule that law-enforcement decisions should be based on an individual’s personal conduct. the danger exists that an innocent person may be subject to arbitrary stops, interrogations or travel disruption. then, if that flagging of them as a person of interest is not promptly removed, longer-term restrictions could follow, such as refusal of visas and entry, bans on employment or even arrest and detention. in a world of increasing international exchange of data, the identification of someone as a person of security or policing interest, if not corrected, could have not only inconvenient or expensive but indeed appalling consequences. one need only remember that canadian torture flight victim, maher arrar – on whose horrendous experience the film ‘rendition’ was based – was picked up due to profiling based on people his brother happened to know; having done nothing himself to merit suspicion, he nonetheless spent seven months in a syrian torture dungeon. the report i am presenting to you has benefited greatly from the considerable input of the shadow rapporteurs, whom i warmly thank. it outlines human rights, data protection and non-discrimination standards in an attempt to uphold two basic principles for any profiling exercise to meet: that repressive consequences should be based on individual behaviour, and that the principle of equality under the law should be upheld. not all profiling raises legal objections. we are all familiar with thrillers where the psychologist is called in to draw up a criminal profile of the murder suspect; and if a witness gives a clear description, a profile – of a bank robber, let us say: white, male and 30 – it would be nonsense to arrest someone who was asian, female and about 50. the most obvious risk of profiling is on the basis of ethnicity or race. if used by police officers as the only basis of deciding whom to stop, search or arrest, it is lazy, misguiding stereotyping, which amounts to illegal discrimination against minorities. there is much concern about the victimisation of roma people in this way. in my own city, london, the impact on young black men has led to tougher guidelines and safeguards – none of which, it must be stressed, should impede the intelligence-led investigation of crime. besides concerns regarding legitimacy, i strongly question the effectiveness of profiling. to keep looking for suspicious people on the basis of looks or behaviour can distract from the search for those who are really dangerous. there is also the risk of the real criminals adapting to the profile by using innocent-looking people as drug mules or suicide bombers or by changing travel routes away from those monitored. counterterrorism efforts focus the spotlight on asians, especially those of pakistani origin. thirty-two per cent of british muslims report being subject to discrimination at airports. there is a great risk of alienating these people, who may then end up not cooperating with the police, ultimately hindering security. this report therefore asks for european or national legislation on profiling to be brought in compliance with existing european law and international treaties. if possible, all safeguards for profiling should be drawn together in a single legal instrument. besides the legal assessment, further studies should be conducted into the proportionality and effectiveness of profiling. the fundamental rights agency and the european data protection supervisor, in their respective capacities, should play a key role in those studies. finally, if profiling is to be used legally and fairly as a means of contributing to the maintenance of security, a coherent and just legal framework must be established.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, as socialists we fully support this report and contributed to it because we believe it is the first time in this parliament that the political, legal and moral debate surrounding ethnic profiling and its effects on ordinary people has been raised properly. we believe that predictive profiling and data mining are issues which have long been unexamined and i very much welcome the commission’s positive approach to both recognising this issue and understanding the possible indirect discrimination that can be caused by ethnic profiling. the socialists hope that if this report is adopted tomorrow and following the upcoming council of europe recommendation on profiling, there will be sufficient political impetus to address this issue at the highest levels. why? for my constituency of london and for myself personally, i can say that i know what ethnic profiling means. it means being stopped and searched regularly because of how you look, rather than being stopped and searched because of proper intelligence, proper policing, with proper procedures put into place. this kind of profiling is a waste of resources. it does not catch terrorists; it does not catch criminals. what it does is target indirectly or directly those who are vulnerable, who have an ethnic background which is just the wrong background this can lead – and i think people should understand this – to strip searches and other abuses which we have seen. this report is an important step forward in protecting people against something which so far has been unexamined, but i am glad that sarah ludford had now raised it in parliament and we will fully support this report tomorrow.
rapporteur. − madam president, i very much welcome the commissioner’s positive response. i think some of the things he has talked about will be extremely useful – the fundamental rights agency, guidance on ethnic profiling, the commission working with the council of europe on its recommendation, and the suggestion that the article 29 working party can be asked for guidance. i would like to push the commission a little bit further, though, on focusing on the specific problems of profiling. after all, we do have a recommendation on the table for profiling in the context of pnr data, so there are special problems. i would like to thank very warmly the small but select band of colleagues who have contributed to the debate. i think two things came out strongly: first of all, the fact that so-called ‘security’ measures can create insecurity and, secondly, that they can be a waste, instead of a targeting, of resources. so we are talking here about effectiveness as well as civil liberties.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions. − madam president, i should like to congratulate ms frassoni on her report. i think she and i now, over a period of two or three years, have enjoyed working together on this report on behalf of parliament. that cooperation i have enjoyed; i do not enjoy the fact that we seem to end up every year repeating much the same things and having a certain sense that we are going round and round in circles. it ought to be pretty simple, because this is about our citizens being able to see what european law is; when there is a problem, to be able to see what the enforcement process is; and, finally, to see the result of that enforcement. but, as it is, we seem to have to keep trying to invent new mechanisms all the time to actually deal with a process that is already there but is not obvious and is not transparent. we have made some progress in that the beginning of the process, in the sense of making eu law understandable, has now been taken on board by the commission, and i am pleased that we now see, with some regularity, so-called citizens’ summaries prefacing pieces of legislation, so that we can all see – and those we represent can see – where we ought to be heading and what the law ought to achieve. but when it comes to the enforcement process, we still seem to be in a position where the decision to enforce or not is less than obvious – why that decision may or may not be taken – and citizens are often left wondering. we have recently received a letter from somebody who had tried to get a piece of legislation enforced and is now so disgusted with the whole european set-up, having been pro-european, that they now support an anti-european party. that is the point: if we do not get this right, we bring the whole of european law and the whole of our institutions into disrepute. it is as serious as that. all of us as members, in these last days of this mandate, are spending our time tearing around, going from trialogue to trialogue and first-reading agreement to first-reading agreement, arguing about sets of words, the contents of sentences in legislation. that is great. but if, at the end of the day, it is not enforced in the way that our citizens expect, we might ask ourselves: what is the point? all of our institutions have a responsibility concerning the monitoring of eu law. you, the commission, have the primary responsibility, and i wish in a way that we did not have to have this debate in this style every year.
madam president, i wonder if commissioner tajani would agree that, in a sense, the biggest obstacle to the correct observation of community law are in fact our national governments. i will just give one example. about 20 years ago we agreed to have the four freedoms throughout the european union. in my constituency there are many people of italian origin, one of whom is a teacher and, obviously, a fluent italian speaker. he returned to his family home in italy and was forbidden to teach in his family’s native country because his training was undertaken in england. that surely must be wrong, but there is nothing that we can do about it because the italian authorities say – for whatever reason – that this is reserved for italian nationals. the british government’s behaviour at airports seems to me to be in flagrant breach of most european agreements. is there something the commission can do – maybe by making a plea, at the next summit, to our national governments to show a bit of european solidarity?
rapporteur. − madam president, this directive responds to the growing importance of electronic commerce and of electronic money and the need for a clear legislative framework. its aim is to facilitate the use of electronic money for on-line payments accounts, pre-paid mobile phone accounts, top-up travel cards and gift vouchers. e-money is no different from other forms of money in that it stores monetary value and provides a convenient means of exchange. but, unlike account-based payment instruments, such as credit and debit cards, it works as a pre-paid bearer instrument. it is used to cover payments – usually of relatively small amounts – to undertakings other than the user, thus differentiating it from single purpose pre-paid cards like telephone cards. there is no need of a bank account in order to use e-money, so it is particularly relevant to those in society who do not, or cannot, have bank accounts. it was all of eight years ago that a benjamin cohen, in his article, ‘electronic money: new day or false dawn?’, stated that the era of electronic money will soon be upon us. sadly, this prediction was both over-optimistic and premature – for europe, at least. electronic money is still far from delivering, in europe, the full benefits which were expected when the first e-money directive was adopted in 2001. probably this was because of the high initial capital requirement and other over-cautious restrictions. the number of e-money institutions differs remarkably from one member state to another. for example, the czech republic has over 40 emis, or electronic money institutes, while france and germany between them have a grand total of 12. in fact, two german emis were even constrained to move to the uk jurisdiction because of major differences in regulation, even under this directive. in august 2007 – two years ago – outstanding electronic money was only eur 1 billion, and that compares with eur 600 billion of cash in circulation. so, clearly, e-money has a long way to go to become a serious alternative to cash. however, it is growing significantly, despite the restrictions, and this new directive should enable new, innovative and secure electronic money services to operate, to provide market access possibilities for new players and to foster real and effective competition between market participants. new and smaller operators will have an opportunity to enter the market, as the amount of initial capital needed will be reduced from eur 1 million to eur 350 000. the committee on economic and monetary affairs would certainly have preferred less. providers can extend the outlets where e-payments can be made, for example the customer paying for his metro ticket with e-money could also purchase a coffee, a newspaper or a bunch of flowers at the station kiosk, as is already – and very successfully – the case in hong kong, for example. we have been rushed through the legislative process for a first-reading agreement in order to get this measure enacted before the european elections. i thank most warmly ivo and melanie from the economic committee staff, the socialist and liberal shadows, mr pittella and mrs raeva, the commission services and the czech presidency, notably tomáš trnka and his team, for their very positive cooperation. none of us achieved all we would have wished, but i believe we will have made a significant step forward, and i would very much welcome parliament’s support for this project.
rapporteur. − madam president, just to satisfy the prudential concerns mentioned by mrs berès, i would point out that we have insisted in this directive and report that e-money funds are not deposits; credit cannot be created upon them. we have opened the door for e-money only a bit wider. the basic capital requirement is reduced to eur 350 000; the committee on economic and monetary affairs would have preferred eur 200 000. the own-funds requirement is to be 2% of outstanding e-money funds; we would have preferred 1.6%, but with the 20% flexibility up or down that is allowed, the more liberal member states can go down to 1.6% and the conservative member states can go up to 2.4%. it is not ideal that we still have the prospect of such an uneven playing field in the european union, especially when we have insisted that e-money users’ funds will be fully safeguarded and there are also other important user-friendly protections, for example in redemption, as mrs berès mentioned. because of the level of capital required, the waiver level has also had to be set for purely national e-money operators at eur 5 million instead of eur 2 million. all in all, this is a very cautious step forward. it is not perfect. compromises seldom are. almost certainly it will have to be revisited in three or four years’ time and, by then, i hope more operators will have entered the business. users and merchants will be clamouring for more choice. the more doubtful regulators, banks, mrs berès – and even the european central bank – will have become reconciled that this is a beneficial, user-friendly service which holds no risks to the european economy. we in europe can at last take up all the opportunities which e-money offers.
thank you, mr rübig. we shall note and pass on your comments. it is a very difficult time as we approach the end of the mandate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12.00. (the sitting was suspended at 10.15 and resumed at 10.50.)
mr president, afghanistan’s new law, effectively legalising rape in marriage and also child marriage for shia women, threatens to take the country back to the medieval days of taliban rule. certainly this law makes it harder to distinguish, in terms of modernity and respect for women’s rights, between the elected afghan government and the taliban terrorists against whom it is fighting. the law also makes it hard to justify the international community’s massive military and financial assistance to afghanistan. i feel very uneasy about soldiers from my country, the united kingdom, dying to defend a government that panders too much to extremist and obscurantist sentiments. to his credit, president karzai has said this law will be repealed, but it has taken a great deal of international pressure, including this resolution from our parliament, to get us to this stage. also the repeal of this law should not obscure the fact that women in afghanistan continue to suffer lack of schooling, injustice and discrimination on a daily basis. there is still a very long way to go to bring afghanistan fully into the modern world and hold it to its binding international commitments.
author. − mr president, international humanitarian law is a relatively new and somewhat imperfect body of jurisprudence, but it has already achieved some major successes. in europe the international criminal tribunal for former yugoslavia has paid an immensely important role in bringing justice to a region torn apart by a series of savage wars. similarly, a tribunal in tanzania has been prosecuting those responsible for the rwandan genocide of 1994. we therefore know the potential of such courts to help war-torn regions by ending a climate of impunity and moving on. in many ways justice delivered in this way is as valuable as financial assistance from the european union. that is why the international community should continue to support the special court for sierra leone by providing secure jail facilities in the member states, if necessary and when required, for jailing convicted tyrants. one of my proudest achievements in this parliament was my role in this parliament’s resolution calling for nigeria to hand over charles taylor to the court, which is what eventually happened through the mediation of the un. but there are plenty of others who will escape unpunished without a robust and well-funded special court for sierra leone.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i believe that alejo vidal-quadras, a good friend of mine, and others who have spoken are profoundly mistaken and that we should support the amendments, because the iraqi government has announced on more than one occasion recently that it has no intention whatsoever of forcing the inhabitants of camp ashraf to leave for iran or to go to any other country. the iraqi government has repeatedly requested different countries, including many eu member states, to receive them, and we have not agreed. of the 3 400 people living in the camp, 1 015 hold residence permits from, and enjoy resident status in, different countries, many of which are eu member states, and we are not accepting these people. why? most of the camp’s inhabitants received professional military training during the previous saddam hussein regime and they participated with his presidential guards and with other security forces in the violent crushing of the iraqi people’s popular uprising after the liberation of kuwait in 1991. there is ample evidence that these people harmed the iraqi people when the iraqi army refused to carry out the killings that saddam hussein required. the families of the victims in iraq cannot forget this fact, and the iraqi constitution does not permit the presence of groups such as the nko or the pkk on iraqi soil. two thousand of these people have registered themselves with the high commissioner for refugees, hoping to be transferred to other countries ready to accept them, and for several years now the iraqi government has been working closely with unhcr asking other countries to accept them. dear colleagues, this is the business of iraq. the sovereignty of iraq is at stake, and we should place our trust in this democratically elected government of iraq. this is their right, their duty, and i can assure you they are fulfilling it correctly.
mr president, i have never been a great fan of the people’s mujahedin of iran, whose philosophical origins are islamist-marxist – which is a contradiction in terms – and they were of course for many years under the protection of saddam hussein, the butcher of baghdad, whom they supported militarily. nevertheless, in recent years they have reformed, and have given valuable information to the west about human rights violations in iran and the geographical location of iran’s secret uranium enrichment facilities. it was therefore questionable if they should have remained on the eu banned terrorist list. what is unquestionable, in my view, is that the residents of camp ashraf deserve legal protection in iraq from its government and the allied forces, and do not deserve deportation to iran, where they face almost certain torture and possible execution.
mr president, this debate once again demonstrates the limitations of urgencies, with huge numbers of representations because there has been insufficient time for proper negotiation and consultation. i want to put on record that the original socialist text clearly opposes any question of forced deportation, and calls for full compliance with the geneva convention and full access by international human rights organisations. to mr vidal-quadras and others, having myself sought to get a compromise by getting cross-party support only for amendments 2, 3 and 6 and then the socialist support for the joint resolution, it is a complete distortion to say that these amendments could be used as a pretext to massacre residents. whether people support or criticise the pmoi, in a human rights debate no one in this chamber should disagree with amendments which seek to support human rights obligations on any or all parties anywhere in the world.
madam president, i rise once again on rule 28(2), which says that any member may ask the president of parliament a question and receive an answer within 30 days. i asked the president a question on 19 march. today is 24 april. i have had no answer. i raised it yesterday and i was promised the matter would be dealt with. it has still not been dealt with. i find it very difficult to understand that the president of this parliament shows such contempt for parliament’s rules and for its own members that he is prepared to completely ignore them. i think it is absolutely despicable the way the president is behaving.
madam president, it would appear that there has been some error in the text published on the internet by parliament's services. it is incorrectly worded and inconsistent with the text which was actually tabled in the joint resolution by my group and others. i do not know whether you have been informed of this and whether you can take it into account, but the text in paragraph 2 should read ‘respecting the individual wishes of anyone living in camp ashraf as regards to their future;’. that is not what is actually published and that is what should be in the text.
madam president, following that exchange and your very helpful reply, i was unable to catch your colleague’s eye yesterday to report that the same member – i decline to use the world ‘honourable’ – had published an article in the austrian press naming a member of parliament’s staff. this seems to me, whether the allegations are true or false, to be yet another example of wholly improper behaviour. it may well be that the character involved would not have his credentials verified if the austrian electorate are foolish enough to support him.
madam president, this report was about the rights of people with disabilities, and i wanted to put on record and acknowledge the work done by richard howitt, a labour member of this house, in his fight for people with disabilities. i have always been a great fan of opening sporting opportunities for people with disabilities. we have all heard of the para-olympic movement, but this year, for the first time, the european parliament and the commission are recognising the magnificent work done by the special olympics movement for people with intellectual disabilities, run by mr tim shriver. this has programmes across the globe, and one of them is now going to be part-funded by the european union budget. i have been privileged to go both summer world games in shanghai and this year’s winter games in boise, idaho, and it is difficult to describe the range of emotions you feel when watching the athletes compete and participate. i just wanted to put on record my complete support for this resolution.
madam president, i think once again this is one of those reports that many people can welcome. in the battle for better energy conservation and more efficient energy use, i think we all want to see more energy-efficient products. but once again i have to draw attention to the fact that we should be leading by example in this house. when we talk about energy efficiency, we should make sure that we put our own house in order. the european parliament has three buildings – two parliament buildings and one administrative building – one in brussels, one in strasbourg and one in luxembourg. that clearly shows that we ourselves are not walking the walk when it comes to energy efficiency. it is time to lead by example. it is time to put the battle for energy efficiency at the forefront. we need to close down the strasbourg parliament, close down the luxembourg administrative buildings and stay in brussels.
madam president, i hope that when i give my explanation of vote i do not provoke the same sort of petty responses that one can expect from the other side of the house. i think we all agree that we need to tackle tax evasion, but at the same time we need to understand that, in the case of those entrepreneurs who work hard, who create jobs and wealth for others and then are taxed heavily for doing so, it is quite understandable when they legally want to transfer their money to lower-tax regimes. i think we all agree that we need to fight fraud, but let us not crack down on legal transfers of money. we may think that the result of such actions will lead to the removal of low-tax regimes and that we will all have to pay higher taxes, and i know that is something that, particularly on the other side of the house, people welcome. but we also have to understand the unintended consequences of our actions sometimes, and if we seek to crack down too much on lower-tax regimes and lower-tax areas, rather than just driving money from one country to another, we will drive much-needed capital, much-needed innovation and much-needed entrepreneurship out of europe altogether.
madam president, like others in this house, i welcome the new drive to revive the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, including the security council resolution to close loopholes in the existing legal framework. however, i reject the direct implication within this report that the european union should replace the key member states as the major actor in this particular process. i think it beggars belief for this place to try and believe that it should extend its tentacles into this area, especially considering the fact that only two member states are nuclear weapon states, with an additional four participating in nato nuclear weapon sharing. this report is more interested in grabbing the chance of replacing member states around the top table of international governance than paying sufficient attention to the danger of proliferation by terrorists and rogue states.
madam president, i think when we start from first principles, we can all agree that nuclear weapons are bad. i think we all agree that war is a bad thing – that is motherhood and apple pie. as the great philosopher edwin starr once said: ‘war, huh, what is it good for? absolutely nothing’. but when we look at this, we have to ask the question: should the eu really replace the two nuclear member states in the whole process of non-proliferation, given the lack of expertise that exists outside those member states? is it not premature to suggest that the uk should dismantle fissile material production when there is so much of this material that can get into the hands of terrorists and other rogue member states? this is nothing but a power grab and will actually do much less in the battle against nuclear proliferation, and we should forget about power grabbing and actually tackle the problem itself.
madam president, a couple of weeks ago i was having one of my favourite meals, a curry, in the village of long buckby near to where i live, and i was hosting a group of people who are new to politics in a political discussion. like everybody – and you all know this – as a member of the european parliament they immediately think a number of things. firstly, that you are on the gravy train and you do not really care about ordinary people, and secondly that europe is not working: there are too many regulations. maybe in some cases they are right – there should be a cost-benefit analysis of what the regulations are – and they are badly implemented, in fact not uniformly implemented across the continent. this report talks about the monitoring of community law, and that is a good thing. if you look at the eurobarometer web site, you will see the number of infringement cases that the commission takes out against individual member states. but this lack of implementation and equal implementation is one of the biggest problems that people in this chamber who are not like me – who are europhile rather than euro-sceptic – have to face in the future.
madam president, i think, once again, there is room for consensus when we look at this issue, whether one is sceptical about future european integration or one wants to see their own country subsumed into a supernational state. i think we all agree, at the moment, that we are all members of the european union and we should abide by community law, because we have been through the due process, the debates and legal processes. therefore, we need better monitoring – i think we all agree – of the application of community law. so when i have constituents in london and cheesemongers complaining to me about the fact that they have had to invest lots of money to make sure, for example, that the facilities they use to sell cheese meet eu standards that have been gold plated by british civil servants, and then they travel across to other member states and see cheese being sold openly in street markets and melting and they wonder about the application of community laws in other countries, it is time for us to show that we are strict about application of community law right across the eu.
madam president, i just wondered if it was actually in order for mr kamall to urge the european parliament to ignore the treaties and ignore its legal obligations and, indeed, to increase the powers of the european parliament in addressing the issue of the buildings in three different locations. he knows perfectly well that, unfortunately, it is the governments of the member states who decide on the seats of the institutions and, unfortunately, under the chairmanship of the former leader of his party, john major, at the edinburgh summit in 1992, they imposed a legal obligation on the european parliament to have 12 part-sessions a year in strasbourg. that is unfortunate, but surely the answer is not to break the law. surely the answer is to ask the governments to revise that unfortunate decision that was taken under the leadership of the former leader of his party.
in writing. − british conservatives share to some extent the concerns in this report that there are serious civil liberties issues about some abuses in the practice of carrying out profiling in a small minority of cases, and welcomes the fact that the european parliament is seeking to draw this to the attention of member state governments. we believe, however, that our law enforcement authorities need to be able to use adequate tools for them to carry out their tasks effectively, of which profiling, particularly intelligence-led profiling, is one. we could not, however, support this particular text, as the tone of the recitals in particular is unbalanced and overly alarmist. the rapporteur calls for the principle of proportionality to be observed, which makes it a source of particular regret that this principle was not respected in drawing up this report.
in writing. − british conservatives support initiatives to ensure success in the fight against fraud in the context of the eu budget. in this respect, there are a number of sensible proposals contained in this report, including the strengthening of the independence of olaf. we wish to make clear, however, our opposition to the creation of a european public prosecutor, and therefore the proposal contained in paragraph 57 of the report.
in writing. − i visited the horticulturalist producer johnson of wixley in my constituency last week, where they expressed concerns about some elements of the recent pesticides package, particularly the strict cut-off criteria on certain pesticides where there are, as yet, no substitutes. however, i was pleased that, in this case, the proposal seems to be less controversial. with consensus seemingly breaking out between parliament and council, i was pleased to be able to support the council’s text and the agreed amendments, even if the latter were, in the end, not adopted. regular collection and dissemination of data on the use of pesticides should help increase awareness and control of pesticide use, and play a small but significant role in ensuring that pesticides are safe both to human health and the environment, whilst avoiding the concerns expressed about the previous package.
in writing. − i support this proposal on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, with a view to closing existing loopholes and eliminating tax evasion. experience has shown that the current directive can be circumvented allowing the wealthiest to evade paying taxes whilst those earning much less continue to pay their taxes, this proposal will start to bring an end to this process.
in writing. − this report recognises the reaction of global leaders that tax havens are a part of a global economy which should contribute positively to the wider interests. much work has been done already on withholding taxes, and this report adds to the current interest in raising transparency of savings and transactions in such tax havens. it is particularly important to the issue of dealing with corporate and individual tax avoidance.
in writing. − the eplp welcomes mr visser’s report into tax evasion linked to import and other cross-border transactions. although vat is sometimes complex, its effects across borders may cause specific problems which this report helps to identify and clear up.
in writing. − the eplp can support this report in terms of the wider perspective of member state economic actions during the current economic crisis. while eurobonds may be regarded as a clever idea which can deliver funds to governments, there seems no legal base on which this can be achieved, so it looks unlikely that this option can be exercised.
in writing. − i agree with the recommendations emerging from this resolution, which comes at an urgent time to address the financial crisis. it must first be said that we are not through the crisis yet and that the authorities cannot relax in the thought that it will pass. several key aspects are important to be acted on. first, dealing with ‘systemic risks’: the international institutions need to be strengthened to face future threats. inside the eu a sole authority such as the ecb must be considered for reasons of coordinating strong actions when urgently required. secondly, the revamping of existing legislation and introduction of new legislation which recognises the specific needs of sectors of the financial services industry, in particular solvency ii and crd, are vital elements which contribute to the management of risk. also, credit rating agencies are now going to be regulated. on the fiscal measures currently being envisaged by member states, it is important to continue with sensible, balanced approaches which also do not add up to protectionism. we will face rising unemployment and falling demand. social policies, too, have to reflect the concerns of european citizens and need to be of higher concern than seems apparent from the recommendations currently known.
in writing. − i supported the beer report on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, including amendments 5 and 8 that called for europe to become a nuclear weapons free zone, because i am in favour of nuclear disarmament. i welcome president obama’s initiative in this regard. yet the us and others are still in denial, firstly about israel’s massive nuclear weapons capacity that underpins iran’s drive to become a nuclear weapons power. secondly, the world’s major proliferation in the past decades has not been pyongyang but pakistan. a.q. khan and the leaders of pakistan, supposedly allies of the west, have done more to make our world more dangerous than any of the ‘states of concern’ or the whole ‘axis of evil’ together.
in writing. − labour meps stand by our commitments on disarmament and the undertakings set out in article vi of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt), which is the cornerstone of the global non-proliferation and disarmament regime. labour meps are committed to a world in which there is no requirement for nuclear weapons. although we acknowledge the proposal for a nuclear weapons convention, britain is concerned that we do not risk at this time diverting attention from, or undermining, the npt and so warmly welcome the european parliament resolution to restate our backing as a parliament to this treaty. we warmly welcome president obama’s and prime minister gordon brown’s recent statements calling for nuclear reductions and labour meps will continue to give our strong backing to all moves to reduce nuclear stockpiles and avoid proliferation, and we will continue to hold all states accountable to their npt obligations.
in writing. − conservatives have been consistent advocates of a strong non-proliferation regime and a multilateral approach toward nuclear-weapon reduction, firmly opposing any proposals aimed at unilateral nuclear disarmament. we welcome a new drive to improve the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, including a security council resolution to close loopholes in the existing legal framework. however, we reject the implication that the eu should replace member states as the major actor in the process. only two eu members are nuclear-weapon states (nws), with an additional four participating in nato nuclear weapons sharing. we do not support the proposal that the uk should dismantle fissile material production facilities. the report also pays insufficient attention to the danger of proliferation by terrorists and rogue states, as opposed to retention or replacement of weapons by the existing five nws. several amendments would have considerably worsened the report, including the proposal that the eu should become a ‘nuclear-weapons-free zone’. for these reasons, taking into account that there is much in the report we can support, the british conservative delegation abstained.
mr president, i want to urge you to intervene with the commission on behalf of a group of my constituents. the citizens of gibraltar, whom i have had the honour of representing formally for five years and informally for two decades before that, are gravely concerned about the cancer clusters that have recently been discovered both in gibraltar and on the spanish side of the border. it is difficult when you are in gibraltar not to see, and occasionally smell, the smoke and pollution from the refineries adjacent to the border, and the concern is that these are the causes of the cancer clusters. what we would like to see is a joint investigation on both sides and jointly agreed terms of reference, to try and alleviate the worries and concerns that people on both sides of the border have about the problems of pollution and its consequences.
mr president, on behalf of one of my constituents i want to raise the case of a young man with dual british/greek nationality named john zafiropoulos. last year he was convicted by a first-degree greek court to serve an unconscionably severe sentence in prison in greece. from the information i have been given, mr president, i consider that the crucial rules relating to greek legislation, as well as the provisions for fair trials, have been violated. these fair trial provisions are defined by all of europe and are the rights of every european citizen. at the start of this year i wrote to the greek minister of justice in athens to alert him to my concerns. the response which i received, three months later, was signed by minor ministry employees and made no reference to the matter which i had raised with the minister – in other words, the breaking of the rules about fair trials. i am very concerned about this, mr president, and for this reason i am raising it in parliament right now, hoping that athens will both send me a proper reply and deliver a full and fair review of the case of mr zafiropoulos.
mr president, over the last five years i have watched in horror the eu’s endless scandalous institutionalised looting of taxpayers’ money. i watched in horror an already overcrowded uk deluged by hundreds and thousands of uninvited foreign workers who arrive for their benefit and claim our welfare. i watched in close-up a legislative system that permits anonymous bureaucrats to generate so-called law without any regard for the damage they do to the british economy and its businesses. i watched in close-up –(interjection from the floor: ‘from her majesty’s prison!’)– this expensive, ineffectual talking shop of a parliament, masquerading as an elaborate illusion of accountable democracy, a monstrous deceit on the electors who sent us here. president gorbachev was right: the eu is the old soviet union dressed in western clothes. you will one day realise that you cannot be masters in someone else’s house.
mr president, we have often deplored the supposed lack of information for the public in the run-up to the european elections. i would submit, after the recent intervention from mr mote, that the greater problem is the wilful misinformation, if not downright lies, that are peddled before the public. in my country at the moment the so-called uk independence party – the party that mr mote was elected for – has posters across the country claiming that the european union costs us eur 400 million per day in membership. that would be eur 15 billion per year – a figure that is actually five times higher than the factual figure, which you can get from the house of commons library. not to be outdone, their donor, stuart wheeler, has said it costs gbp 120 billion per year, some 36 times the real figure. but the truth is that the european budget, anyway costing only eur 3.3 billion, is a simple 1% of gdp. it is a rather small budget, quite small when compared to the huge economic benefits, which amount to some eur 2 000 per family in my country – an enormous benefit, well worth the price of membership, well worth the benefit of mentioning. as you yourself said, mr president, the price of freedom is the right for some people to give misinformation and to tell lies. we have to pay that price, but we must be vigorous in defending the truth. (applause)
mr president, the director of operations for unwra in gaza, john ging, spoke to members of this parliament last week and informed us that there were still no materials for reconstruction going into gaza following the bombing, nothing for business or industry, and that only 60% of the calorific needs of the population were being met by the un. mr president, you have seen the situation for yourself, but it continues, and it is a case of collective punishment applied by israel against innocent people there. just within the last few days we have heard, astonishingly, israel threatening the european union and saying that if commissioner ferrero-waldner continues refusing to upgrade the israel-eu association agreement, then european influence will be diminished, undermined, and we will have no role to play in the peace process. it is time to call a halt. israel’s behaviour is an affront to humanity, to civilisation. it is time for us not simply not to upgrade that agreement, but to suspend that agreement.
mr president, today is 4 may and this will be my last speech here. however, 30 years ago today mrs margaret thatcher was elected as british prime minister and she faced similar socialist-caused problems to those that we face today: crippling debts, rising unemployment and public unrest. she understood the solution was small government, individual freedoms and national self-determination. today the eu imposes big government, increasing central control and the erosion of the nation state. i can also remember her saying ‘no’, ‘no’, ‘no’, words the eu ignores or does not understand. she went on to make that now famous speech in bruges that sparked opposition to the project. the eu is a 50-year-old attempted answer to a 200–year–old problem. i maintain if the eu was the answer, it must have been a very silly question. and, as they say in star wars, may the fourth be with you.
mr president, the republic of china, better known to us as taiwan, has finally achieved its just objective of being able to attend the world health assembly (wha) as an observer. the people’s republic of china (prc) has consistently blocked this move since 1971, when it replaced taiwan in the united nations. as a doctor, i firmly believe that public health issues should never play a part in international relations, and the european parliament, to its credit, has consistently rejected beijing’s petty policy of blocking taiwan’s attempts to be present at wha meetings. i congratulate taiwanese president ma on his new successful policy of rapprochement between beijing and taipei, and at last the prc has seen the folly of its bullying ways towards its neighbour. i too look forward to better relations between the two governments, which is a win-win situation for all parties concerned and in particular now for the good health of the hard-working taiwanese people.
mr president, i rise to express my concern about thousands of innocent civilians who have been turned into refugees in their own homeland by the taliban in the swat valley. we are all familiar with the stories about mistreatment of women by the taliban. however, the news coming out of the valley in the last month reports closing of barbershops, banning of music and disabling of satellite television receivers. also robbing of banks and looting of homes or women’s jewellery at gunpoint are common occurrences, especially of those that oppose or that stand up to the taliban. the introduction of sharia law in the swat valley has also resulted in all non-muslims living in the valley having to pay jizya, an ancient form of tax, and i understand that the sikhs living in the area were kidnapped or threatened until they agreed to pay. as the only sikh mep, i have been contacted by numerous constituents who are horrified as to what is happening in the swat valley – people who have lived there for 60 years are discriminated against in this way. this parliament has a proud history and record of fighting against these forms of violations of human rights and denouncing those that are exercising these intimidatory actions. however, we need to go beyond just statements and ask for concrete action from the commission to make sure that we have a strategy as to how we address the taliban and their rising influence in that region. taliban are the real threat to all the values that we hold dear, human rights, equality and democracy. i urge you to write to the commissioner to take some action.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, obviously we know that there was stalemate, but better no agreement than a bad agreement in my view. we always knew that it would be inevitable, but it took so long to actually acknowledge it. i think that is more to do with some parliamentarians wanting to appear tough to their electorate than with anything else. once a majority for the parliament voted to get rid of the opt-out, there could of course be no deal as 15 countries use it, as we have already heard. i support the opt-out of the 48-hour limit of the working time directive as long as it is voluntary. i attempted during committee to tighten this up and make sure that you could not sign the opt-out at the same time as the contract and that you could opt out of the opt-out at any time. indeed, that is what the council also proposed. it is important for flexibility, for the worker and the employer alike. why should someone not be allowed to earn overtime if that is what they choose to do? my fear also was that people could be forced into illegal work and would not then be covered by health and safety legislation, including the dangerous machinery directive. far more of a problem are multiple contracts and the definition of autonomous work. these are abused far more than the opt-out, but the council did not really move substantially on this and parliament did not really push that point either. as far as ‘on-call’ time is concerned, i believe that all ‘on-call’ time should be classed as working time. i was pleased that there was movement from the council on that. as i said at the outset of this debate five years ago, we should deal with the court rulings of simap and jaeger and nothing else. maybe we will do that in the future and address the health sector alone. finally, i must say i am pleased that we have kept the opt-out of the 48-hour limit, particularly for fire-fighters in the uk who would have had extreme difficulty providing cover if the opt-out had been lost, and i congratulate them on their campaign.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, president klaus remarked on 18 february that the eu structure is a dogma which contradicts the experience of heritage. member states have a heritage. they do things their own way, including the way they work. when i pointed this out at the first conciliation meeting and remarked that member states should not be forced into a strait jacket, a fellow mep actually queried whether i should have been invited to the meeting. there is democracy for you! the commissioner’s document produced later that night included the text ‘preferences and needs of workers make it impossible to fix a date to end opt-outs’ – it is nice to hear an echo! as president klaus said, there is a great distance between the citizen and elected eu representatives, but much less within member states, which makes the eu undemocratic. i agree, and i for one insist on being more representative of the citizens. after all, where there were but four member states wanting opt-outs in 2004, there are now 15. does that not tell you anything? and meps had the nerve to call 15 states out of 27 a blocking minority – parliament is in denial!
madam president, when future generations come to judge this parliament and its work on the working time dossier, i suggest that they will view how meps behaved during the trialogue process with sheer incredulity. they will see that here was a directive born and bred in the early 1990s when the socialists were the largest party in this house and when the left was running the majority of member state governments; that here was a directive which, however well intentioned, reflects the standard socialist dogma that people cannot be relied upon to make their own choices about their own work/life balance, that politicians always know best and that, of course, european politicians know best of all; that here was a directive on working time that has simply never worked. the opt-out, originally devised for the uk, became an opt-out that 14 other countries progressively needed to use, and we heard from the czech presidency today that at least two others are now joining that group. meanwhile, 21 out of 27 countries could never make the directive work as far as their national health services were concerned, so the commission came up with proposals to resolve this. we have a directive which clearly cannot be implemented, and what has been the reaction of this parliament? that the people are wrong; that the member states are wrong; that the commission is wrong and that all must be forced into this one-size-fits-all strait jacket, which plainly does not fit anybody. understandably, the council refused to give way because, like meps, member state governments were elected to open up opportunities for people, not to restrict their freedom. they, however, remembered what certain meps have forgotten. so the opt-out remains for the present, but so do the problems, and the issue now rolls forward to the next generation of meps in the next mandate. i just hope that our new colleagues, right across the house, will show more sense, will show that they are listening to the people and not dictating to them, will bin the directive rather than ban the opt-out, and will start afresh.
madam president, it is really bizarre that the council should blame parliament for the breakdown in these talks. parliament made all the running; it made all the compromise proposals. late in the day, the commission came forward with a compromise proposal, but the council did not budge one inch, so it should not blame parliament for this breakdown. now we have philip bushill-matthews talking tonight about freedom of choice for workers – the freedom to work the hours they want. well, philip, look at the situation in the united kingdom, the very member state that has used the general opt-out the longest. according to the european labour force survey, there are 3.5 million workers there working more than 48 hours per week on a regular basis. according to that same survey, 58% of them – almost 60% – say they would like to work less than 48 hours per week. 2.2 million of those 3.5 million in the uk receive no payment for that additional work they do each week. they are not crazy, but are of course being forced to work those hours, and have been put in a position where they have to work additional hours. that is the reality of the use of the opt-out.
madam president, we need to reject this proposal from the commission for three clear reasons. firstly, they argue that regulation (ec) no 561/2006, on driving and rest time, covers everyone and therefore there is no problem excluding the self-employed. this is wrong. driving time represents only half – on average – of the working time of a driver. those not covered could indeed end up working 86 hours per week, every week of the year. secondly, the hundreds of thousands of drivers driving vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes are not covered by the regulation. worse still, if they are excluded from this directive there will be no limits at all on their working time. thirdly, the commission makes a distinction between self-employed and ‘false’ self-employed, and says it does this because you cannot inspect or control the working time of the self-employed. if that is so, how will they control the working time of the ‘false’ self-employed? this is an abdication of responsibility and an open invitation to unscrupulous employers to constantly search for new forms of ‘false’ self-employment to avoid the law. we need to reject this proposal from the commission.
rapporteur. − madam president, we have a compromise; we possibly have before us tomorrow a first-reading agreement. for my part, as rapporteur in this parliament, i would say that this has been a very difficult file, a very difficult journey. however, we have arrived at a position where, i hope, we will respect the wishes of those members of parliament who signed the written declaration on this subject and we will have respected the wishes of many citizens in many of our countries across the eu who tell us that they do not like what they see of the commercial seal hunt and that they wish to have no association with the trade that results from that hunt. we have respected that wish; we have dealt solely with what we can deal with within the confines of europe’s internal market: the circulation of goods in the market that arise from the commercial hunt. following this piece of legislation – if it goes through tomorrow – our consumers should be assured that nothing from the commercial hunt will be sold on europe’s market. but, of course, there are exceptions. seals are very beautiful marine animals – in fact, i have realised during this process that they have great pr – but to some they are the rats of the sea. that is how they are perceived by many fishermen: an adult seal gets through an enormous amount of fish on a daily basis. therefore, there will remain the need for seals to be hunted to ensure the sustainability of fisheries in some area. but what we have not done here is to regulate hunting. if people in any of our member states wish to hunt, they can still continue to hunt. what they cannot do is take commercial gain from the results of that hunt. but it should be the case that the results of the hunt can be used, and i hope particularly that those parts of seals that can be used by the medical community will be able to be used. the most difficult aspect of all of this has been the place in it of the arctic traditional communities – the indigenous people of the arctic. we say we have an exception for them, but how will being associated with a banned product actually affect their lifestyle and their economy? the arctic is not some sort of theme park or museum: it is a living, breathing community with its own modern economy and at the heart of that is what is taken from the seas. i hope that those communities will be able to continue to exist in the way that they always have. but i have my doubts, and i know that those doubts were behind the decision of the arctic council last week to refuse to give the eu permanent observer status. this file has been, for me, a conundrum. i have wrestled with the clash of liberties, i have respected the vote in committee and i have tried to respect the views of those i represent at home. but i share only this with you today: i had a delegation from the nunavut community come to see me. after our exchange of views, we were all in tears. i hope the derogation works. i will support this package tomorrow but i hope it will turn out to have been the right thing to do.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, as the coordinator for my group on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i signed the compromise text and believe i was right to do so but, as diana wallis has said, this has been a very difficult dossier because of the difficulties of balancing different views. you have already heard from two members of my group who have differing views on this and i think you will see tomorrow that the position of our group will be against this – unless some of the amendments that my colleagues have proposed are voted through. there will, however, be many – including myself – who will vote in favour because, having taken that position, i feel morally obliged to do so. i just want to pick up on some of the crucial issues. first of all, this is a call for action. what people have indicated so far is that this is the beginning of a process and not an end. the issue is the inhumane way in which seals are being killed and the inability of professional hunters to deal with that. the canadian government has to reflect on that as well. there are plenty of review clauses built in here to ensure this works, but i very much echo what diana wallis says that the exemptions were crucial for the compromise. the exemptions are well balanced because they reflect, first of all, the importance of supporting traditional hunting in communities. diana wallis is right in saying that has to work, and that means that products from those communities need to be on sale and need to be presented in an appropriate way. secondly, because of the importance of sustainable marine resources and how that issue is going to be dealt with. we have a compromise on the table. i think european citizens want us to endorse it, but this parliament is also going to have to keep this deeply under review from now on.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i think we are forgetting that it was this parliament which first took up the campaign for an eu-wide ban on the cruel trade in seal products. in 2006 a written declaration calling for this ban was overwhelmingly backed by members – receiving 425 signatures – with studies by veterinary experts clearly showing that seals are killed with terrible suffering, often skinned whilst still conscious. the public no longer tolerate the trade and we as their representatives have the power to end it. moreover, our vote tomorrow will be a decisive step forward in the global campaign to ban the trade. the usa has had a ban for many years. mexico has banned the trade. in europe we already have national bans in belgium, the netherlands, luxembourg and italy; germany and the uk are considering ways to ban the trade. bans are now in place in russia. hong kong is planning a ban. this is a political issue that now has its time. after a 40-year campaign against the trade, europe has the chance to introduce a ban in all 27 states. for the committee on internal market and consumer protection it is not the first time we have taken up citizens’ concern to end the cruel trade. parliament has the power to deliver for citizens and the internal market committee was determined to go for a strong ban whilst securing exemption for traditional inuit hunting. the committee rejected the commission’s mixed proposal for a partial ban and labelling; the committee rejected mrs wallis’s proposal for a labelling option only. why? because citizens would have condemned this half-hearted gesture which would have allowed the cruel slaughter to continue. the public have demonstrated in numerous polls across european countries that they want an end to the trade: 75% of people polled in the uk want an end; 80% in austria, over 90% in france and the netherlands. even in those countries in the eu where a small amount of traditional seal hunting takes place, the trade is not supported by the public, with 70% against in sweden. a clear majority of canadians do not support their country’s hunt. furthermore 86% of canadian people polled believed the eu should be free to choose to ban these products. i have here a letter from a canadian senator written to president pöttering saying: ‘your vote to ban the trade in seal products will help the vast majority of canadians who watched in admiration as the russian federation ended its bloody seal slaughter last month to force their politicians to look beyond political expediency to what is right and to end this inhumane hunt once and for all. on behalf of the majority of canadians who are opposed to the hunt, thank you for the leadership you are taking on this issue. it is much appreciated.’ this year 50 000 seals have been slaughtered in the canadian hunt compared to 220 000 last year. that means that we as citizens now have the opportunity to ban this cruel trade. i know that this will be applauded by the citizens of europe. i hope that parliament will tomorrow vote to back the internal market committee’s proposal for a ban in seal trade products.
madam president, as one of the other co-sponsors of the original written declaration nearly three years ago, which called for this ban, i should like to congratulate everyone who has worked to bring this draft proposal forward. four hundred and twenty-five members of this house signed that declaration, reflecting the strength of feeling about the issue, not only among meps but also among our constituents. today, nearly one million seals are slaughtered annually in commercial seal kills around the world, and when we vote on this package tomorrow we will be helping to end one of the most vile examples of animal cruelty. i am very glad that compromises, like the proposed labelling system, have been strongly rejected, so that we can fully meet the demands of millions of european citizens. a positive vote will be a vote for ending cruelty. it will also be a vote and a victory for all of us who have refused to take ‘no’ for an answer. i well remember many meetings with commission officials when we were told that a ban would be simply impossible. well, this just shows that when we can galvanise sufficient political will – and i pay tribute to the ngos which have helped us to do so – then impossible things become possible, and i am delighted that they do.
rapporteur. − madam president, i think the debate tonight well illustrates the difficulty of this issue, and it also illustrates, therefore, how wonderful it is that we have been able to reach some form of compromise. as with all compromises, somebody or everybody will perhaps be a little disappointed by something or other. i guess what i wanted to emphasise is what we have tried to say throughout our negotiations: that what we have dealt with is what the internal market can deal with, and that is the trade. we cannot deal with the hunting from here, not the hunting that occurs in third countries. it has been difficult; many of us still have questions about how things will be implemented and, commissioner, i am grateful for the reassurance you have given with regard to how the indigenous communities will be dealt with: that will be something which will be important to many and something that we will have to watch very carefully. i think many of us still have concerns about the legality – and there has been much spoken about this either at wto level or within our own internal market rules. suffice it to say at this moment that i would just wish to say thank you to the lawyers of all three institutions who have worked to get us where we are today. i suspect they will have more work to do in the future but that, as i have said, is for another day. so there we are: we will see what the vote brings tomorrow. i believe that it is a compromise that is worthy of our support, a compromise that honours the original written declaration and honours the views of european citizens. i hope that they will not be disappointed if they see that this does, in any way, infringe the rights of others elsewhere. it is that that has bothered me throughout the most, and i hope that you will do your best, commissioner, to make sure that those small and fragile communities are protected.
rapporteur. − madam president, firstly i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs who have been very willing to work with me on what is an incredibly technical and difficult dossier. by working together we have been able to come up with what i believe is a good compromise. i would also like to thank the commission for their cooperation, and we look forward to working with them on this dossier in the future. i would also like to thank patrick baragiola from the agri secretariat and my adviser dan dalton. animal testing is a highly controversial area and involves a moral dilemma. is it ever right to test on animals in order to potentially save the lives of humans? i believe that, as long as tests are properly justified from both the scientific and ethical perspective, then it is. however, we must do everything we can to minimise both the number of tests and the amount of suffering imposed upon animals. the commission report was a good start. it showed that the commission is keen on moving towards an end to animal experimentation whenever possible. however, in many areas the commission proposal was ambiguous and may have the opposite effect to that which the commission is seeking. the omission of definitions of a severity classification was a glaring hole in the whole proposal. the commission was in effect asking parliament to make a judgement on the rules surrounding the classifications without knowing what they actually were. in addition, some provisions, particularly the recommendations on the reuse of animals and on the proposed use of only f2 primates (second-generation primates) are likely to mean that many more animals will have to be used. in the case of f2 primates, no feasibility study has been done to see whether it is possible to do what the commission is proposing. their impact assessment only looks at numbers; it does not look into the welfare implications. for this reason, parliament urgently needed to amend the proposal: not to weaken it but to make it clear exactly when testing on animals should be allowed and under what circumstances. i believe that the agri committee report strikes a compromise between ensuring that research can continue in the eu and improving animal welfare. from an animal welfare perspective it is a step forward. it is all about promoting alternatives to animal experimentation through a financial commitment, more emphasis on the three ‘r’s and the strengthening of the role of ecvam. in addition i have also proposed regular thematic reviews of primate experiments to identify and phase out those experiments which are not necessary. it is also a step forward for medical research. it will update the current outdated legislation and will allow medical research to continue as and when that research is scientifically and ethically justified. i believe that this is fundamentally important. we also want to see animal tests reduced. however, european citizens quite rightly demand that the best and more effective medicines are available. reliable european research and development is essential. vaccines for polio, german measles, hepatitis b, diphtheria, measles, mumps, rubella and meningitis, along with combined therapy drugs for hiv, medicines to control asthma, life support systems for premature babies and deep brain stimulation for parkinson’s disease, have all been developed through experimentation on animals, and specifically primates. many millions of lives have been saved or improved as a result. until we have alternatives in place, i believe that it would be unwise to outlaw these types of experiments, either directly or indirectly through poorly worded legislation. this directive will set out the framework to ensure that we can phase out animal testing as soon as alternative methods are available. it significantly improves the search for alternatives and puts us firmly on the path to one day phasing out animal testing altogether. we have a good compromise in the agri committee. however, the liberal group appears to be trying to drive a coach and horses through this agreement. i would urge them not to vote against this report, because it will set back animal welfare by several years and it would be completely wrong for them to take this action.
mr president, i cannot hide the fact that this report has been a serious disappointment to those of us who thought that a rapporteur who was also the president of the animal welfare intergroup might have reflected that concern for animals rather more diligently in his report. it is therefore essential that some crucial amendments are adopted when we vote on this. in particular, the scope of authorisation must apply to all projects, not just to severe and moderate ones. if we fail to ensure that, it will mean that many procedures causing pain, distress or suffering would no longer be subject to a centrally monitored ethical review and that in turn would effectively undermine the enforcement of many of the measures set out in the proposal as a whole. but, if our amendments are passed, it will mean that there will be renewed effort going into research and the alternatives to animal testing, which is particularly critical in basic and medical research. current efforts are concentrated on regulatory testing, which accounts for only 10% of animal use. for the sake of both the animals and human health, it is essential that more modern, effective non-animal tests come into use as soon as possible.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to thank members very much for their views and the commissioner for his views. we are right to have this review of this legislation. it is right to refine, reduce and replace animal testing wherever possible. we are right to keep the momentum going. both industry and animal welfare organisations believe this is necessary. this is an issue which i believe goes well beyond politics and is very much a moral issue that we must get right. i for one am very disappointed – if he were here i would say it to him clearly – that graham watson has made a personal attack on me in my own region, making this a highly political issue. this is regrettable because we need to come forward with a sensible proposal in the end. a lot of technical expertise and work has been put into this report. we do not deliver this report lightly. we have put serious work into it and we have good compromises. i have sought to bring all sides together to deliver a report which is right for parliament, right for research and industry, and right for animal welfare. i would urge all to support it because, if we do not get it through, we face delaying the report for a couple of years, and this would be detrimental to the industry and to animal welfare. so i would urge all members to support it. if there are groups here that decide to vote against it, i think in the long run all it will do is delay what is a good proposal, one which will help to make sure there is research available in the european union to help with disease control and new medicine while at the same time reducing the number of animals we need to use and actually strengthening ecvam in looking for alternatives. so i would urge all members to vote for it because we want a really resounding result in the morning.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 5 may 2009). written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by luis de grandes pascual, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2005/35/ec on ship-source pollution and on the introduction of penalties for infringements (com(2008)0134 – c6-0142/2008 – 2008/0055(cod)) (a6-0080/2009).
thank you, commissioner, not only for your work as commissioner but also as a member of the european parliament. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 5 may 2009).
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the proposal for a directive on consumer rights by arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-0076/2009 – b6-0232/2009).
author. − mr president, i know commissioner kuneva is here, and i very much welcome the opportunity at this last session of parliament’s mandate – even at this very late hour – to have an exchange of views on the commission’s consumer rights proposal. we have produced a working document and you will recall that the imco committee working group, led by myself as chair and rapporteur, made a decision not to rush this proposal without taking full consideration of all its implications, in particular since it has been described as the most far-reaching change in approach to consumer law in europe. the committee, i believe, has very diligently carried out its work with a public hearing, several exchanges of views, a presentation suggested by mr harbour on the impact assessment, and an online consultation with has received around 100 responses from organisations across europe in just three weeks. we also held an exchange of views with representatives from the 27 national parliaments to which the commissioner was also invited. commissioner, i know that you and your staff are fully aware that this is a controversial proposal that merits further examination in a number of areas. we appreciate the drive to improve consumers’ rights in the internal market. we also agree that there is a need to improve the functioning of the business-to-consumer internal market by removing barriers to cross-border trade, but there is also a need to reassure our consumers that they can continue to expect a high level of protection. during our deliberations, debate and consultations with stakeholders, we received numerous representations concerned about the lack of clarity and certainty in this proposal. we encouraged consumer organisations and business stakeholders to initiate their own dialogue on how we can make this proposal work, and i know that the commissioner has received a jointly drafted letter from business and consumer organisations which has been copied to all meps. i would like to quote from that. they say, ‘we attach great importance to the legal clarity and quality of the proposal, as well as to the need to know what consequences and changes it would bring about compared with the current situation. we believe there is a high degree of uncertainty about the scope and the consequences of this proposal in particular in relation to its impact on national legal orders.’ their concerns are clear. we need to be clear in our final proposal. are we asking consumers to give up some of the rights they have under national law? if so, what does the consumer get in return? and if we are not asking them to surrender certain contract law rights, such as the right to reject in uk and irish law, then is business still not faced with 27 different sets of consumer rules, the abolition of which was a key objective in the first place? my colleagues and i believe that our first priority is to evaluate what this proposal will do for consumers and business in real practical terms. that is why tonight’s oral questions identify some key issues that we would like to work with you on, and that we need to make sure are addressed, in order to produce a workable set of rules that benefit all stakeholders. our questions therefore focus on the details of specific areas where we would like to see further work. some members of the working group were concerned at perceived flaws in the impact assessment and want to see more evidence of the costs of legal fragmentation if we do not act. they also want more information on the economic impact of the proposal, not only on the impact of the information requirements. in short, we would like the commission to take some time in the intervening election period before parliament is reconstituted in july to undertake the following work (this is all contained in the oral question): an analysis of the practical and legal implications of the proposal on consumer rights in each member state; a clarification of the relationship between the fully harmonised provisions in the directive and the general remedies available in national contract law; a clarification of the interplay of the draft proposal with existing community legislation, in particular the unfair commercial practices directive, e-commerce directive, services directive, the rome i regulation and, of course, the proposed cfr. we want some further evidence in the impact assessment to help us analyse and demonstrate the benefits and costs of this proposal and any alternative approaches that could be put forward. we want you to help us, and we will work with you, to ensure that we support a dialogue between stakeholders on what measures are necessary to bring mutual practical benefits for business and consumers alike. commissioner, i believe it is possible to produce a workable practical proposal that is supported by all stakeholders. i pledge to you that the members of this house wish to continue to work with you to ensure that we deliver that, and that we can at some point in time vote through this parliament a new consumer rights directive.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would first of all like to warmly thank ms kuneva for all the work she has done on consumer issues, since this is the last time in this parliament we shall have a chance to debate with her. commissioner, i from my side and, i think, the whole committee have really appreciated your intensive engagement. i know it was perhaps somewhat disappointing for you that we felt we were not able to give this proposal a thorough review and get it to first reading before the end of this mandate. but i think history will show that we have done the right thing because the work that has been led very well by arlene mccarthy – looking at the impact assessment, questioning the issues – has raised awareness in the proposal and has also got many more people engaged, as you yourself indicated. it seems to me – and here are the crucial points i want to make in the short time available this evening – that one important thing that is missing from this proposal is the overall strategic framework that the commission wants to follow in the evolution of the consumer acquis. this proposal addresses goods but, at the end of this year, before we have this proposal in place, we shall have the services directive in place and there are many issues for consumers around that. we know that you are also looking at issues such as digital products, package, travel and so on. i think we need to see what you intend to do with this goods package as part of a broader strategy for the direction of the consumer acquis. that is very important. it needs to be future-proofed; it needs to be part of an overall process. that is one of the things that i would be slightly critical of in the approach that has been taken so far. i hope we will be able to move that forward. i was delighted you mentioned the house of lords because i was also going to reflect on that. we have assured them that their report will be able to have a material contribution on the outcome, given the time we have available. we look forward in the end to an extremely good result for europe’s consumers and the internal market.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the short presentation of the report by miguel angel martínez martínez, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the special report from the european ombudsman following his draft recommendation to the european commission in complaint 185/2005/elb (2009/2016(ini)) (a6–0201/2009).
thank you, commissioner, thank you, colleagues. thank you to all the staff and thank you to all the interpreters, whatever age they may be. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 5 may 2009).
rapporteur. − madam president, it is a privilege this morning to be opening this most important debate and inviting our colleagues to support the reform to the telecom package that we have on the table. i emphasise that it is a reform. as you heard, four rapporteurs have been working on elements of it. on the key reform of the package, i want to pay tribute to my colleagues, catherine trautmann and pilar del castillo vera, because we have worked very closely together to bring that package together. it is an important reform because the existing package that i worked on with colleagues back in 2001 and 2002 has worked very well for the european economy. we have a thriving and dynamic communications sector with active consumers in the marketplace. but this reform brings that up to date and my colleagues will explain the areas that they want to work on. the most important thing is that it makes the package robust for the next decade. there are substantial improvements that parliament has made in this second reading. i would like to place on record, on behalf of the three of us, our thanks to the french presidency for bringing us a common position in november which has enabled us to bring this improved package to you today in the last session of this mandate, because it is vital for european consumers and the european economy that we give this a ringing endorsement in our vote tomorrow. as always with these complex issues, i have had tremendous cooperation from my own shadow team – bernadette vergnaud, cristian buşoi and heide rühle. i also want to thank the team from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, led by alexander alvaro, because an important element of my reforms includes the e-privacy directive, which they have handled. in my four minutes this morning, i do not have time to go through all the points and all the improvements that we have made in great detail. there will be plenty of briefing about that afterwards. i just want to give you a sense of what we have achieved and what we are looking for. in this directive we have significantly improved the rights of consumers and users in the electronic space. consumers need to be empowered to make choices between the communication services on offer and, to do that, they are entitled to information. they are entitled to fair contract terms and conditions that do not tie them for long periods to particular providers. they are entitled to a high-quality emergency service, to access to social information services over the internet and voice telephonic communication. above all, they are entitled to have their data in the electronic communications space protected. we will hear more about that later. we also need to empower regulators to ensure that those entitlements are properly delivered. all of those are included in this proposal. i think it is very important to emphasise that this is an enabling and empowering proposal. it is not a proposal that is any way restrictive of people’s rights on the internet or restrictive of services at all. we want to give consumers that power to make choices and that is what will open services. i just want to conclude my first speech by saying this: there have been a huge number of people working on this proposal and we have had tremendous resources behind us. i want to particularly mention peter traung from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, luca vusaggio, our legal adviser, and lindsay gilbert from our group, who have all worked closely together with my assistant sheena gooroochurn. we have had great support from the commission, from peter rodford, the commissioner herself and her team, and also from the council secretariat led by eva veivo. i mention that because i think many people outside do not realise the extent and engagement that we have in delivering these complex texts. i look forward to your support for this tomorrow because it is so important for all our futures.
madam president, i welcome the agreement on the telecoms package because this agreement brings in its wake another agreement on a less discussed issue: the repeal of the gsm directive. the mobile telephony industry has been understandably very anxious to get access to the radio spectrum bandwidth currently reserved for gsm, in order to maintain its global competitiveness. however, meps were anxious to ensure that democratic accountability over use of the spectrum was maintained. previous spectrum-related pieces of legislation, such as the mobile satellite services decision, have shown that many issues said by the commission to be technical do, in fact, have a political side to them. what is technical may, in fact, affect principles of cohesion and access for everybody. so i welcome the fact that, through the telecoms package, meps will now retain scrutiny of spectrum allocation. i will be voting for the telecoms package, but i do so with a certain reluctance, because i believe there has been a fundamental betrayal, at the highest level, of the basic principle of the telecoms liberalisation that this directive was supposed to achieve. i am referring to the words in article 8 about ensuring access to incumbents and their approach to the market. it seems to me that the deal that was done on this wording in a private conversation between prime minister gordon brown and chancellor merkel has given incumbents, such as deutsche telekom, a huge advantage. we do not know what prime minister brown got in return. i am afraid that private deals by leaders behind closed doors are not the way to make eu legislation. i regret that this occurred.
madam president, i have a few observations. i do not trust the commission; i do not trust unelected bureaucrats behind the scenes who have meetings for which i do not have any minutes. i do not trust this place, which gives a veneer of democracy, but which is largely made up of placemen. this looks to me like political editorial control over things on the internet – the new medium. it is the sort of thing we condemn when it happens in china. i do not like it. it smells a bit to me. i do not know what is going on behind the scenes, as the previous speaker just said, and what deals are being done that we do not know about. we have perfectly good copyright laws. we have perfectly good data protection laws. that should be enough. i do not want any more control coming to this sinister and corrupt institution.
madam president, it is fair to say that the telecoms sector is a success story within the eu, which makes it all the more important that we set the right regulatory framework. i should like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work and in particular my colleague, pilar del castillo vera, on making big improvements to the commission proposal for the regulators by turning it into this body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec). it is a pity that a debate about the internet and internet censorship and the legal powers of member states has distracted attention from the substance of this package. i would like to compliment my colleague, malcolm harbour, for thrashing out a compromise text with the council over this vexed issue known as amendment 138. if nothing else, this part of the package has provoked a torrent of e-mail lobbying, and i have to say to those people who believe that large volumes of e-mails and many words will prevail, that they very quickly become counterproductive. what is easy to send in an instant is equally easy to delete in an instant, but, unfortunately, too much time has to be spent scrolling down trying to find anything else other than spam. i very much hope that the regulators will feel fully equipped to bring about more competition, a level playing field and much enhanced consumers’ rights, as well as striking the right balance to encourage investment and innovation to keep europe at the cutting edge. another important aspect of this package is the enhanced consumer rights that have been delivered, in particular number portability within one working day and greater transparency in contracts and billing. these are practical matters that are important to the individual consumer.
madam president, i wish to begin by paying tribute to all the hard work put in by the commission and its officials, and also by all the rapporteurs. i speak as one of the shadow rapporteurs for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs at the time of the e-privacy part of the whole package. i would also like to pay tribute to the work of alexander alvaro and the other shadow rapporteurs, including mr lambrinidis from the socialist group. we all worked very hard to achieve a balance between data protection, which we all agree is a very important issue, and the right of companies to develop security programmes to ensure that our networks are safe and target those who seek to initiate malware and viruses across networks. this is something that sometimes involves examining data traffic. what this was not about was going for ‘three strikes and you’re out’. very few people here support that, and it is very unfortunate that some people outside this house have sought to portray this as supporting ‘three strikes and you’re out’. while we are on the subject of data packets, let me turn to the issue of net neutrality. i think we have to agree that a certain amount of network management is necessary. as companies build broader pipes, other companies are coming up and filling those pipes, and this could lead to problems of congestion. who could have imagined a few years ago that we would now have services like bbc iplayer or youtube? therefore, it is important that operators are able to manage their networks. this idea of ‘first packet in, first packet out’ could prove detrimental, particularly when emergency services are being overridden due to traffic congestion. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs on this subject for trying to achieve the right balance, and would ask the lobbyists outside this house not to portray this as ‘three strikes and you’re out’; please do not portray it as a fundamental attack on our freedoms. we are just trying to achieve the right balance.
rapporteur. − madam president, firstly i would like to thank everybody who has participated in this debate. it has been a very constructive debate. i welcome in particular the support parliament has given me and my colleagues on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for the significant improvements we have made on the users’ rights and data privacy elements of the directive. i was delighted that, during the course of the debate, everybody contributed on those aspects. they are important for every consumer. coming up to the elections i hope that all of you will talk about the work you have been doing in this house for consumers in the internet world because it is absolutely crucial. i think my second and important reflection is that the internet space itself – electronic communications, the sector itself – is a thriving, evolving and dynamic sector. our task as regulators is to allow that dynamism, that innovation, to continue. we put in place a framework of regulation to ensure that consumers can engage with that, to give them the right to know about those services, to empower them to take advantage of that – that is crucial. but the internet is not the thriving place it is – and you have seen how dynamic it is because of the mail you have been getting about this proposal – it is not there because we have been restricting activity on the internet, it is not there because we have been imposing new business models. we have been shackling the things that people have done. we want new entrants to come in, we want small businesses, we want large businesses, we want investment. it is that sense of dynamism and urgency that we need to move forward. mrs reding is right: we must encourage member states to get these improvements in place as soon as possible. we want the new berec operating; we want the new regulatory body to engage with us in parliament, to ensure that these things happen as quickly as possible. let us move on from here and look towards the future. thank you, commissioner, for the key declarations that you made in the areas of data protection and universal service which will enable us to work with you to make progress in these crucial areas.
rapporteur. − mr president, i was given a mandate by the house to enter into negotiations with the other institutions on this important dossier. sadly, i have to report that the negotiations have not been productive, and therefore i am recommending to the house today that we do not vote and that we refer the decision on this important dossier to the next parliament, when i expect the commission to produce a new proposal in the autumn of this year.
rapporteur. − mr president, i think that illustrates why it is extremely important that the next parliament exercises every single prerogative that it has. a dialogue means that each institution has to listen. so far, neither of the institutions is listening to parliament. for that reason, we should not take the vote and we should fully empower the next parliament. (applause)
mr president, in order not to interrupt the flow of the vote once you start, i would like to inform the house that the socialist group is withdrawing the third part of amendment 62, that is the part concerning points b and c of article 2(1).
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs who have been very willing to work with me on what is an incredibly technical and difficult dossier. by working together we have been able to come up with what, i believe, is a good compromise. animal testing is a highly controversial and emotional area which does involve a moral dilemma. we have done our best to create a position which will improve welfare for animals used for testing and, at the same time, ensure that top-quality and reliable medical research can continue within europe. we have built upon the commission’s proposal in many areas and, most importantly, we have clarified the severity classifications. we had a good compromise in the agriculture committee and it should not be picked apart at this stage. we all want to work together to refine, reduce and replace animal testing. however, we must remember that many vaccines and cures for diseases have been developed using animals, and especially primates – for example, vaccines for polio, diphtheria, hepatitis b, along with deep brain stimulation for parkinson’s disease. all are examples of the benefits of animal research. to allay concerns that many members have with the use of embryonic stem cells, amendment 170, if supported, will ensure that ethical decisions on this issue are made by member states themselves and not by the commission. we have a huge opportunity here to improve legislation for animal welfare and research. we should put our party differences aside and support this report. industry, medical research and animal welfare organisations are convinced that this is a step forward and that we will update and improve the current legislation. if we do not deal with it in this parliament, the legislation could be put back by a further two years or more, which would be a retrograde step. i urge members of the house to support this report. finally, as this is probably the last time i will speak in the chamber because i am retiring to go into national politics, can i thank you for the courtesy with which you have treated me and thank the members of the house, who have also treated me with great courtesy. (applause)
mr president, i am grateful to you for calling me. i supported this report but, as i shall be leaving this parliament in the coming elections, i want to use this as a final opportunity to underline the very powerful message that the president of the czech republic, the president-in-office, recently gave to this parliament: ‘we now seek a new people’s mandate’. the truth is, however, that the people are not really represented in this chamber. as the president-in-office said, there is no opposition here to the european project. the people – the men and women in our constituencies, particularly in britain – do not want a european constitution, they do not want a treaty imposed on them. what they want is the right to vote and i hope, sooner rather than later, they will be given that opportunity.
mr president, i welcome the adoption of this report. my group and i voted in favour. this is a very important signal that parliament has sent. we must now, however, follow it up.
mr president, i am absolutely delighted that this report has been adopted by such an overwhelming majority and we can look forward to a ban on the import of seal products into the european union. i must say that i was saddened to see that our rapporteur, the liberal democrat diana wallis, was not fully in favour of this course of action. as rapporteur, she should have represented the views of the committee, where there was a very clear majority, and not sought in a number of ways to overturn what was clearly the will of a very large majority in this house. nonetheless, i am glad that parliament has shown such clear determination by such a clear majority to settle the issue in the way that we have now decided.
mr president, this report presented me with something of a dilemma. there is something not strictly rational about singling out seals for special treatment. they are not an endangered species – even the wwf says so. we do not get anything like the clamour about hunting seals on behalf of wasps or woodlice or wolverines or worms. then again, democracy is not strictly rational. people are not always calculating machines. it may be, as evolutionary biologists would argue, that it is the childlike features of the baby seal – its large eyes and so on – that on a deep genetic level give us a predisposition towards empathy with them. i do not know. the point is that you open a dangerous door if you say that the voters are wrong simply because their objection to seal hunting is aesthetic rather than rational or ethical. once you have started down that road, it is a short step to saying that they are wrong to be against the european constitution or the lisbon treaty or whatever. so, after a lot of thinking, i have reached this view about this report: because it is obviously such a sensitive and important issue for a number of our voters, it should not be decided at eu level at all, but should rather be determined properly through the national, democratic mechanisms and procedures of every member state.
mr president, i rise with pride that this house voted for this report with an overwhelming majority. i voted for this report because i am pleased that we are making a strong statement, without loopholes, on the trade in seal products in the eu. many people in my constituency contacted us – and millions have got involved in this – to say that this was the most disgusting and cruelly-deployed killing of lovely creatures. i know some may say this is just because they are attractive, but when one sees videos of the methods used one realises that commercial seal slaughter, in particular, is unnecessary because many alternatives are available. i am very pleased that we have voted in such large numbers to stop this cruel trade.
mr president, this ban is great progress and represents a true victory for campaigners across the south east of england particularly – as you could imagine – and across the european union, many of whom have written to us in the house to demand the end of this cruel trade. the fact that a labour chair of committee led this campaign, in the face of intense lobbying by the perpetrators of this cruel and obscene trade, is crucial in realising its success. it was not the watered-down original – as my colleague, richard corbett pointed out – but, after critical amendments were proposed by arlene mccarthy, the ban was voted through in the committee and now in parliament. i was intrigued just now to hear mr hannan from the conservative party suggesting this should be a matter of national discussion and democracy. if we were to rely upon that particular route, only eight countries would be signing up to this particular ban, as opposed to the 27 by voting it through the european parliament. it shows that trade and animal welfare are compatible and we should rejoice in that.
mr president, although today was a good day for animal welfare in terms of seals, it was a less good day in terms of the way we have just voted on animal testing. earlier this month, i had the pleasure of visiting a firm in my constituency, simcyp, which has just won a national award from the dr hadwen trust for developing alternatives to research on animals. that company has shown that it is possible to develop alternatives that work. indeed, it has also shown that often the results of research on animals, when it comes to medical research, are not necessarily giving you data that it is reliable when applied to human beings. simcyp is pioneering alternatives to this. it is possible to go further. we should have gone further today. we have only made a small step. we need to do much more.
mr president, i abstained on this report because i am a long-term campaigner for animal rights. this is one of the issues that it is important for the eu to focus on if we are to balance justice with the internal market, and we must insist on market morality. i have received a number of letters on this issue and constituents across my region express their dismay. they believe there should be greater protection for animals used for scientific purposes. the reason i abstained is because i wanted to end the capture of monkeys from the wild for breeding purposes and i therefore support the commission text. also, amendments that remove the obligation for accurate record-keeping in the user establishment were not supported. furthermore, i believe that amendments that reduce the commitment to the three ‘r’s – replacement, reduction and refinement – needed to be supported. i also believe that the accommodation should be tailored to the experiment and accommodation should be part of the project authorisation. i want to avoid animal suffering and ensure we have humane methods of killing or at least less painful. that is one of the reasons why i abstained because i did not feel the report went far enough.
mr president, as we speak, there is a live radio programme about the european parliament on the british radio station 5 live – it has been going all morning. there are people phoning in and one of the questions that they constantly raise is the cost of the european parliament. how much does this parliament cost, and can it justify its cost? as i pointed out recently, if you relate the cost to the number of citizens, then the european parliament costs gbp 1.74 per citizen per year, about the price of one pint of beer. by contrast, the house of lords costs gbp 1.77 and the house of commons gbp 5.79 per year, far more per citizen. of course, this parliament, with a wide electorate, spreads its costs widely. we have costs imposed on us by the member states in terms of the three working places and the 23 languages, which no national parliament has to bear in its budget. yet, despite that, we manage to provide value for money.
mr president, i shall not dispute the figures that mr corbett has just read out. i do not particularly care if this parliament costs less per capita than others – though i think there are one or two more people across the european union than there might be in the united kingdom. my concern with this report is that it is a missed opportunity. it highlights many of the expensive regimes that we have all noticed in our time here – i have been here for 10 years, like you, mr president. it is interesting, for example, that the european parliament’s main library is in luxembourg, where no one can access it, because the members rotate between brussels, strasbourg and their home seats. there are lots of missed opportunities in this place, and this report is most definitely one of them. at a time when all our constituents are having to tighten their belts, we should have signalled in this report that we were willing to tighten ours too, and we did not. it is a missed opportunity.
in writing. − i welcome this report because it concerns an issue i have been working on for some time now. on a visit to the michelin factory in stoke-on-trent, management and trades unions explained to me their support for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i have since written to the business and enterprise minister in the uk, lord mandelson, to request he consider an application to the eu for the activation of the adjustment fund. it strikes me, as it did the people i met at michelin, that this fund needs to be put in place as soon as possible. this is exactly the kind of thing the eu was set up for – to collectively help member states, and most importantly, their workers, at times of difficulty. because the fund is not about simply bailing out companies – it is about supporting a strategy which will lead to sustainable growth and employment for the future. the report’s focus on the importance of small business for economic recovery, and the stress that the fund places on skills and training, will do much to ensure that people who lose their jobs will be reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. − this legislation represents another example of how the eu is targeting the car industry and the way in which the eu usually seeks to impose grossly disproportionate legislation to resolve a relatively minor problem. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety voted to bring forward the date for garages to comply with new measures to limit the amount of petrol vapour released into the atmosphere when cars are refuelled. the committee also voted to lower the threshold of petrol sales in order to bring many more garages into the scope of the proposed law. targeting small independent garages in this way would have a knock-on effect on other local businesses, generate hardly any environmental benefits and potentially increase exhaust emissions if drivers have to drive further away to refuel when a local station has closed. the cost of upgrading equipment in terms of capital expenditure and lost business owing to temporary closure would be substantial.
in writing. − i have been lobbied heavily by animal rights groups and constituents about this issue but i am very sceptical in principle about banning things. ultimately consumers will decide if they want to buy seal products. i was proud to have contributed to the campaign to ban imports of cat and dog fur from china but the import of seal products is a very different issue based on traditional culture and practice over centuries. bullfighting and cockfighting are unsavoury spectacles but the eu recognises that they should be allowed to continue within the eu in regions where an unbroken tradition exists. it would therefore be hypocritical for the eu to ban seal products from canada on the basis of animal cruelty. i am also hesitant to antagonise canada, which is a great ally of the eu and shares our common values. i reject animal cruelty but i believe this issue has been deliberately distorted in order to provoke an emotive response among meps. we should approach such matters in a more balanced and dispassionate way.
in writing. − when i was first elected to the european parliament 25 years ago, it was shortly after an ‘initial ban’ on the trade in seal products in 1983. unfortunately, despite revisiting the issue on a number of occasions, this is still unfinished business. the situation, a quarter of a century on, is scarcely any better than back in 1983. we still see hundreds of thousands of seals culled in canada in the most cruel and brutal slaughter. hopefully today’s vote will be sufficiently overwhelming to finally achieve what we thought we had managed 25 years ago. neither i nor the seals want us to be back here in 2034.
in writing. − we understand and share concerns about the trade in seal products. we have no problem with individual states banning seal products, but we believe that this should be a matter for individual states and not for the commission. therefore, we have been unable to support this proposal.
in writing. − i am pleased today that we voted to ban the eu trade in seal products.
in writing. − although it contains much that my party (ukip) would agree with, this report is tainted by its illegitimate and anti-democratic origins in the machinery of the eu. consequently, i cannot support it.
in writing. − i am disappointed at the parliament’s position on the revision of europe-wide rules on animal testing. in the end i decided to abstain on the final report. while i fully support the provisions on developing and pushing forward the use of alternatives to animal testing and the thematic biannual review of the use of primates, both of which i see as crucial in moving our research away from its reliance on animals, particularly primates, overall parliament’s position has weakened many of the important animal welfare provisions proposed by the commission. the fear that has prevailed over the parliament is that the research industry will leave the eu if too many demands are placed on our research establishments. however i believe that there are some demands that are essential if we in europe are to ensure high levels of animal protection and i fear that today’s result goes against this thinking. two crucial issues for me were to move europe away from the use of wild-caught monkeys for breeding purposes and the absolute need for authorisation of all experiments involving animals, thereby cementing our commitment to the replacement and reduction of animals in experiments. sadly the european parliament missed the opportunity to take a strong line on animal protection today.
in writing. − we accept that experimentation on animals is sometimes necessary, but we also understand and accept that the necessity of some experimentation is questionable. we support the advancement of alternative methods of research, and would wish to see experiments on all live animals reduced to an absolute minimum and performed under the strictest possible humanitarian guidelines. we believe, however, that this should be a matter for individual states to decide on, and so regrettably we am unable to vote in favour of this proposal within an eu context.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we approach the next european council with anxiety tempered by ambition. one important item on the agenda should, of course, be the nomination of the next president of the commission, but that nomination cannot be seen in isolation. the president is underpinned by the commissioners and, in the light of the lisbon stalemate, we are none the wiser on how those posts will be filled. so, when we ask the citizens of europe to choose their new parliamentarians in just four weeks’ time, we do so on the basis of uncertainty and we run the risk of that vacuum being filled by the opportunism of europe’s opponents. the time has come to make clear how we will proceed. mr daul has expressed his determination that the largest group should propose the president of the commission, as was the case five years ago. my group follows that logic. the next president of the commission, whenever he or she is appointed, must know the legal basis and the timeframe for the appointment of the college of commissioners. the logical approach is to make all the appointments on the basis of nice or all on the basis of lisbon. that is the kind of certainty citizens need. those member states yet to ratify the lisbon treaty should act to make that deal easier to strike. tomorrow the czech senate will vote on the treaty, with a three-fifths majority required. assuming its assent, the document will be delivered to mr klaus’s desk. he should sign it forthwith. president-in-office, your presidency has not been bad. as mr barroso said, a number of legislative acts have successfully been brought to conclusion, but the headline facts – despite the best efforts of you and your team, mr vondra, and we wish you well – are that we have had the first eurosceptic council president and the collapse of a government half way through the presidency. also, i am sorry to remind you of it, but it may take some time to forget the entropa sculpture, no matter how much we may want to. so, when the president replaces the prime minister in the summit chair, let him end his term of office on a positive point. let him confirm his signature of the lisbon treaty. for all that lisbon matters, it will not define this european election campaign. europe’s voters are interested less in constitutional questions than in practical solutions to the problems they face, and i urge you at your summit to recognise these problems. europe’s economy continues to creak under the weight of recession, and citizens need to know how we will lighten that load. my group welcomes the hedge fund proposals from the commission in that regard as a good first step. europe’s environment remains in peril as climate chaos draws ever closer and voters must see that the european union can lead the fight back. europe’s values are undermined by human rights abuses occurring on our doorstep, and people should understand that the european union retains its resolve to right those wrongs. these are the challenges of our times. this election campaign must show that europe is up to the task and that europe alone is equipped to do so.
mr president, the czech presidency has achieved important successes in difficult times and this record is due not least to the personal skills of prime minister topolánek and minister vondra, who is with us today. i would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to them and thank them for their work over the last five months. undoubtedly the economic situation will dominate the june summit, which will of course focus on short- and medium-term measures to get consumers spending and banks lending again. however, it should also look at how the eu can assist enterprise in the longer term. for some small businesses this will mean improving access to finance and maximising their opportunities in the single market, but for many the answer will simply be for politicians to cut down on red tape and interference. that is why europe cannot be allowed to go down a socialist route this june. the economic downturn has caused the socialists to show their true colours. they believe politicians should dictate how many hours you can work. they believe trade unions should prescribe your working conditions. above all, they believe that they, rather than the people, know best. nothing epitomises the ‘politician knows best’ attitude better than the recent debate over the working time directive. conservative meps were pleased last week to be able to see off the latest attempt by uk labour meps to scrap britain’s opt-out to the directive. in britain, 3 million people use the opt-out. its businesses, workers and public services rely on that possibility. the czech presidency is on the side of the workers in this debate, and i congratulate it for helping us to see off this latest onslaught by socialists. i urge the june council to sort out this issue once and for all, and to make it quite clear that workers, not politicians, should choose their working time.
mr president, i do not propose to put pressure on the czech senators or the irish people in the debate this afternoon, so i am going to increase pressure upon the commission – and especially upon the president. it is expected that the european council is to nominate president barroso for a second term and, in such circumstances, we would expect to see and to discuss a manifesto from president barroso. will he publish such a programme, and what will it contain? centrally and surely, it should draw conclusions from the financial turmoil and the economic crash, especially as we approach the budgetary review before 2012. we have to change the size and the shape of the budget so that it more squarely responds to our top political priorities. the new commission should make the case for a transfer of spending from national to european level in the interests of cost efficiency and added value. it should include, as an important objective, an expansion in the size of the eurozone and support a far stronger eurogroup, committed to tighter fiscal discipline and a common economic policy, not simply the poorly-coordinated national macroeconomic policies that we have at present. and, yes, it should include a proposal for the raising of eurobonds, plus greater federal supervision for the financial sector and a proper fiscal stimulus, accompanied by a proper trade stimulus triggered by the reopening of the doha trade negotiations.
rapporteur. − mr president, i also have a couple of minutes later on to talk about some of the other issues on the floor this afternoon. but the report i was dealing with particularly concerns the issue of active inclusion of people who are excluded from the labour market. firstly i want to thank all the colleagues who have been involved in this and the very many civil society organisations that have also contributed. we have been hearing this afternoon about a time of recession increasing risks of exclusion unless we are very careful: the risks of people now losing their jobs and maybe not making it back to the labour market at some point in the near future; those who are already in difficulty not even being able to access the labour market; and then of course there are those who are not even part of the labour market. they risk being forgotten and that is something we have to be very much aware of. we have to look at some of the structural barriers that we as a society are also putting in place in terms of active inclusion. one of the things we agreed in the committee was that active inclusion should not be replacing social inclusion, that wider field of feeling that you have a role to play in society. we are generally in broad agreement with the council and commission in their recommendations on this, in terms of adequate income support, and this report uses that phrase. we also talk about minimum income in places where we really mean that. that people need that income to give them dignity, to give them choice and the opportunity to actively participate in society. it is important in terms of support for the more vulnerable, for carers, those needing care, those needing support for independent living, and indeed it is important for pension levels. the report also says that it is important that member states should be considering a minimum wage. we have got a growing problem with the working poor within the european union. we have also talked in the report about difficulties with social security systems and their lack of responsiveness, particularly when you are trying to keep people in touch with work, and they might then be doing casual work, temporary work, fixed contract work. social security systems do not always respond to that very well. but we also sound a warning on activation measures, particularly those that sometimes introduce penalties which can have an indirect effect, for example on the families of those affected, or indeed where you find people undergoing several training programmes for work that simply does not exist. we also agree concerning the issues around the inclusive labour market. that is why we have singled out the issues of anti-discrimination and that legislation being properly applied, questions relating to training and education to keep people in school rather than leaving early, and a more individualised approach that deals with an individual’s needs. we have also agreed concerning the issue of access to quality services because those are extremely important for vulnerable individuals in difficulty. and we have highlighted the role that local authorities have to play within this – and indeed the need for more of a framework around services of general interest – so that we can ensure that people are getting the services that they need. but equally important for us is, i think, the question of voice within this: that those who find themselves excluded should also be included when we are looking at measures that are being put in place and considering whether they are really going to meet the needs of the long-term unemployed, of older people, of younger people trying to gain access to the labour market, or whatever. that question of voice being structured through the open method of coordination is extremely important and should not be forgotten.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i want to pick up on certain of the aspects from the employment side of things – and not least the context, given that the spring summit was at one time supposed to be the ‘sustainable development summit’ – and to link that with the commission document from late last year on new skills and new jobs. that document mentioned how the transition to low-carbon economies would have an important impact on employment. it is very important that we remember that and do not lose sight of it in the general discussion that we are having at the moment. what i would like to see coming out of much of the concern about employment at the moment is a very coherent package as regards new industries and new investment. we are not seeing this at the moment. we have an excellent example downstairs at the moment of solar technology and how that is developing in a part of germany, whereas at the same time we are seeing job losses in the solar sector in spain and in the wind-turbine sector in the uk. just at the point we are looking for new skills in new technologies, we also run the risk of losing them through lack of a clear investment strategy and, indeed, a clear skills development strategy within that. therefore, when we talk about many of the issues around retraining and developing skills etc., we should also be looking at the so-called just transition programme, worked out with the ilo, the ituc and the un, because the skills we are looking for at the moment are beginning to change. we need to develop the skills of those who still have problems with literacy and numeracy and, indeed, it, but we are also looking for transversal skills – which is something else out of the commission’s document. we should also be considering what we do with sectors that have been orphan sectors in terms of skill developments – not least the care sector at the moment – and really look at how we can ensure equality there.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, if globalisation causes redundancies, there will be a shortfall in revenue so the globalisation fund will not have the money it wants to spend. do not fight globalisation; join it by encouraging competition within the eu and learn how to compete on world markets. you want to renew the social agenda via the working time directive, which has two aims. firstly, it was supposed to provide more jobs by limiting hours worked so that companies had to take on more staff, but extra staff means the extra cost of social taxes, so unit costs rise. small companies then become uncompetitive and lose orders, causing short time or even closure. workers then have no job at all. how social is that? secondly, it was meant to result in more time with the family, but what use is that if the take-home wage is then insufficient? how social is it if the family is deprived of some of the nice things in life? let individuals work out their own salvation. many countries have a minimum wage structure and i support that. we do not wish to see the social ills of people exploited, but the eu has now destroyed even that with one of its own institutions, the ecj, where the rulings on laval and other cases ruined member states’ minimum wage policies. how social is it to overturn the way national parliaments have tried to protect workers? these measures are nothing less than an attempt to establish a soviet-style command economy, and we all know how well that worked.
mr president, as the shadow rapporteur on the active inclusion report, i shall concentrate mainly on that one. i would like to congratulate jean lambert, the rapporteur on that report. she has brought forward an excellent report. i am delighted that most of my amendments got through the committee, particularly those on anti-discrimination. as you know, it is something dear to my heart. people are excluded from the labour market for many reasons, but it seems to me absolutely incredible that it is still happening on the grounds of disability, age, religion or belief, or sexual orientation – despite the employment directive of 2000. the problem is that it is not being properly implemented across all member states and we must be even more vigilant in making sure that we are monitoring it properly. i am also pleased that my amendment on mandatory retirement age was accepted. it has always seemed wrong to me that someone reaches a certain age and is then thrown on the scrapheap. however, even if people are not excluded from work but cannot get to work because they cannot get the access they need, that leads to exclusion as well. that is why i am pleased that my amendment welcoming a new comprehensive anti-discrimination directive was also accepted by the committee. i regret, however, that the ppe-de group has tabled an alternative resolution. i believe this has been done mainly to remove any reference to a new directive on anti-discrimination, as i know most of them are opposed to it. it seems amazing to me that anyone would wish to deny people their basic rights at eu level just because of their age, disability, religion or belief or sexual orientation. the other areas i sought to address were the blurring of economic migration with asylum-seeking and of economic migration and asylum-seeking with illegal immigration – all distinct, separate issues which must be dealt with differently. i believe that asylum-seekers, for instance, should be allowed to work while they are waiting for their asylum application to be processed. this would take away from their reliance on benefits. we also need to do more to integrate people with mental health problems and those who have alcohol or drug problems. finally, a quick word on the european globalisation adjustment fund. i am glad we have had a speedy conclusion on this. it is important that the remit of this fund is widened to include workers who were made redundant through the economic downturn, not just globalisation, and that the number of redundancies needed would be 500 instead of 1 000. this is extremely important for people in my west midlands constituency, as elsewhere in the uk.
madam president, may i start by thanking the presidency-in-office for their opening comments – comments that were far-sighted, balanced and sensible, adjectives that we have come increasingly to associate with the czech presidency. may i also thank commission president barroso for his remarks, particularly to remind us of the importance of jobs and especially of the need to focus on those unfortunate people who do not yet have one. finally, both of them referred quite rightly to the excellent work of all three rapporteurs, but i would just like to single out their reference to mr silva peneda’s report, because they called it ‘ambitious and far-reaching’. it is, and it needs to be because of the importance of this particular subject. mr silva peneda gave us various priorities for what we must do. can i just add a couple of things that, ideally, we should not do. we need to avoid two things in particular: one is over-rigid labour markets which paralyse opportunity, promote unemployment and simply encourage the black economy. we see this particularly at the moment in spain and we have to learn the lessons of the socialist failures there. secondly, we need to avoid exclusive concentration on protecting those still in work at the expense of those who seek it and those employers who seek to provide it. these are the groups who really need our help. finally, can i say that all of us clearly have different views on all sides of this house, but one thing we have in common is that we all care about the issues, which is why so many of us have been overrunning our speaking time. i am delighted we are having this key debate. i personally am delighted that my final speech as coordinator, my final speech in this plenary, should be on such an important subject. may i wish all those colleagues who are returning every good wish and may i particularly single out stephen hughes. one day, stephen, you will miss me and i shall certainly miss you, but even when i am not here i shall be watching you!
madam president, we were originally promised a full-blown employment summit this week but, instead, what we have is a half-day troika. what a dreadful message that sends to european citizens, who are joining unemployment queues at an alarming rate! what a negative message it sends to the many more who are in fear of losing their jobs! projections show that by 2010 up to 27 million could be unemployed in the eu, and i fear it could be even worse. i very much hope the june summit will devote at least one full day to looking at how we respond to this challenge. instead of pretending that the answer lies only at national level, we need strong, coherent, european-wide responses, coordinating actions at the european, national and regional levels. we need urgent action to retain viable jobs wherever possible. lay-offs should be a last resort: intelligent work-sharing and reskilling should be used instead. we need to invest to create smart green jobs in the knowledge-driven, low-carbon economy. we need to invest to give workers the skills to work in that new economy. we need strong, active labour market policies to quickly reintegrate workers laid off and we need strong and viable social protection systems to support those who find themselves unemployed through no fault of their own. that is more than enough to fill a full day at the june summit. this half-day troika is a pathetic response. and finally, philip, i will miss you – a bit like a toothache! (laughter)
rapporteur. − madam president, i very much regret that some of our dearest colleagues are leaving us at the end of this mandate. a number of points came up in the debate, not least in relation to anti-discrimination and how important such measures are, even in times of economic downturn. the point was raised about the work we have done on this issue in the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. the issue of mutual support was also raised. i want to stress at this point that one of the dimensions we raised in the inclusion report was that of the local level, and certain local economy dimensions. we talk a lot about national and international economies, but the local economy is crucially important: people’s access to banking, even if they are not very well off, to microcredit and to credit unions. we need to beware of poorer people finding themselves being pushed more and more into debt at very high interest levels through loan sharks and the like. we need to make sure that this does not happen, as it really eats away at people. however, in terms of the local authority dimension and the services dimension we talked about as well in connection with the report, another area that the committee particularly wanted to stress was the subject of housing, because, again, in times of economic downturn, there is more and more pressure on people who maybe find themselves unable to afford the housing they are in. there is therefore going to be a need to concentrate on that level; we could perhaps use the open method of coordination to look at best practice across member states. finally, i would like to mention the social fund. we are very concerned that this does not get brought into a very narrow dimension about what constitutes employment and preparedness for employment, as we do not want to lose a lot of the imaginative and very productive and interesting schemes that have been helping people for so long find their way into employment from very difficult starting points.
the next item is question time (b6-0231/2009). the following questions are addressed to the commission.
question no 24 by nikolaos vakalis (h-0240/09) subject: eu earthquake policy: actions taken by the commission in the wake of the recent catastrophic earthquake in italy in november 2007 parliament adopted resolution (p6_ta(2007)0507) on an integrated approach to earthquakes by the eu (prevention, response and repairing damage) in which it called for the adoption of specific measures as regards a policy for protection, reinforcing buildings (with special emphasis on buildings of historic and cultural significance), funding, research, public information, etc. furthermore, in my letters to the environment commissioner (10.1.2008) and the commission president (22.5.2008) i have drawn attention to the urgent need to draw up a communication devoted specially and exclusively to the effective management of responses to earthquakes. in the wake of the recent deadly earthquake in italy, does the commission take the view that it is covered by its written answer of 22.7.2008 (p-3470/08) and the answers furnished by mr barroso and mr dimas or does it intend to take further initiatives to protect european citizens from earthquakes?
question no 25 by avril doyle (h-0211/09) subject: solar thermal electricity and the economic recovery plan in a bid to tackle the serious energy and economic challenges facing the european union, in its recovery package the commission has proposed measures designed to contribute to both economic recovery and energy objectives. however, solar thermal electricity (ste) - one of the most promising renewable energy sources - is not included in the list of sectors which stand to benefit. moreover, european industry is currently the world leader in this area, but it can only maintain this position if the domestic market expands and if further r&d is promoted. can the commission please comment on why the ste sector has been excluded from the strong financial boosts provided in the recovery plan? what other sources of funding are available to the sector?
question no 26 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0218/09) subject: nuclear power stations according to the institute of energy of south east europe, many eu countries and other countries from southern and eastern regions and eastern mediterranean countries engaged in accession negotiations are examining schemes to extend or construct nuclear power stations to generate electricity. will the commission say what actions and initiatives it intends to take to impose pre-conditions and restrictions in respect of these initiatives, bearing in mind the special geological characteristics, climatic conditions and the possibilities for funding these schemes and their viability?
question no 27 by brian crowley (h-0232/09) subject: promoting sustainable energy in cities in my own home city of cork, local authorities and businesses are striving towards the creation of sustainable energy policies. what is the commission doing to support cities like cork in their efforts to promote sustainable energy?
in view of the time i am afraid i will not take the further supplementary question. i am sorry, mr rübig, but you have had one question already and the commissioner has given us some very full answers.
question no 28 by claude moraes (h-0216/09) subject: the economic crisis and avoiding protectionism as our trade commissioner you have rightly said that we must avoid protectionism in our response to the current economic crisis, as it is widely acknowledged that we will not get out of this economic downturn through restricting trade. in what ways is the commission working to prevent the growth of protectionist tendencies in its international trade negotiations? can any progress be reported with regards to completing the doha round? additionally, how will the commission ensure that the promotion of open trade is balanced with the eu's development priorities, such as core labour standards and environmental sustainability?
thank you, commissioner, and i am conscious that you are standing in for commissioner ashton. i want to congratulate the commission, and indeed members in this house who are on the committee on international trade, for pushing the line of discouraging protectionist tendencies. i should like to ask about the issue relating to developing countries and how we can ensure that we increase or facilitate trade both with and between developing countries, for example via increased trade-related assistance. this is an important component that we should factor in. overall, i have seen very encouraging activity from the commission and parliament in relation to protectionist tendencies, which would be a retrograde step.
does the commission accept that as well as lecturing others and monitoring others to avoid the risk of protectionism we should be careful ourselves and make sure that when we use our trade defence instruments they are for the purposes for which they are intended and not as protectionist measures?
question no 29 by seán ó neachtain (h-0234/09) subject: internet piracy canada canada has one of the world’s highest levels of internet piracy. this is exacerbated by serious legislative and enforcement deficiencies. in fact, canada’s copyright act is in urgent need of revision in order to bring it into line with current international standards of protection in the on-line environment, such as those laid down in the wipo internet treaties of 1996 and the eu copyright directive (2001/29/ec). the longer this situation lasts, the longer european rights holders - in particular the creative sector (authors, composers, performers, songwriters and phonogram producers) – will be deprived of the legal tools they need to stop the large-scale online infringement of their rights in canada. their losses to internet piracy are huge. the situation is such that legislative action needs to be taken now rather than after the upcoming eu-canada trade summit in may and subsequent bilateral trade negotiations. given the urgency of this issue, what is the commission doing to ensure that canada amends its relevant legislation without any further delay?
question no 30 by david martin (h-0245/09) subject: korea fta following the recent discussions between the commission and the south korean trade ministry, can the commission outline the state of play of the eu-korea fta negotiations?
thank you, commissioner, for that response. firstly, i entirely agree that a free trade agreement with korea would bring enormous benefits both to the european union and to korea, and would send a positive signal in terms of our determination to keep markets open. however, failure to reach this agreement now looks like it lies more with the member states than with our negotiating partner. that being the case, if we cannot reach an agreement with korea, would the commission accept that dg trade might as well pack up and go home as regards free trade agreements, because if we cannot agree with korea we are not going to agree with india, asean or on any other such agreements we are negotiating?
thank you very much. maybe the commissioner would comment on the situation of the german government on this matter. like mr martin, i am a supporter of this free trade agreement with the republic of korea. however, we do need to be careful about details and timing. it is estimated that 650 000 korean cars would sell in europe per annum. while there is already some production in eastern europe, there will be a significant volume of new imports. most surveys indicate that these will substitute the sales of japanese cars produced in europe, like those produced by the honda plant in my constituency in swindon. this plant is currently mothballed and the workers are on standby. in order not to exacerbate the current situation here and elsewhere in europe, will you ensure that there is a serious time lag before such imports are allowed?
question no 31 by georgios papastamkos (h-0257/09) subject: us-eu trade dispute concerning hormone-treated beef will the commission provide information concerning the outcome of the negotiations it is conducting with the us authorities with a view to definitively preventing - following the decision for a temporary suspension - the activation of the so-called carousel retaliatory measures as part of the transatlantic trade dispute on hormone-treated beef and revoking the retaliatory measures already in place?
question no 32 by giovanna corda (h-0209/09) subject: non-compliance by airlines with regulation no. 261/2004 the court of justice of the european communities delivered a judgment on 22 december 2008 pursuant to which an airline may not refuse to compensate passengers following the cancellation of a flight because of technical problems affecting the aircraft. a swedish court before which a case was brought by the ombudsman has just given a similar ruling. could the commission indicate to what extent it will take account of these rulings which once again demonstrate the reluctance on the part of the airlines, the overly vague wording of regulation no. 261/2004 oj l 46, 17.2.2004, p. 1 concerning the 'extraordinary circumstances' justifying a cancellation and the passivity of the commission in the face of numerous violations of this regulation to the detriment of passengers?
i will be brief, as i realise there is very little time. commissioner, i have to say that the implementation of the rights we have are, frankly, a joke at the moment. i was recently in amsterdam and watched klm dealing with delayed passengers by rebooking them on a self check-in. the staff systematically, without asking the passengers, declined the compensation and assistance which they were entitled to. can we have some monitoring by the commission? can we have some people actually at airports looking at what the airlines do? because, frankly, it seems to me that it has become a joke.
question no 33 by emmanouil angelakas (h-0212/09) subject: airline privatisations in the eu given the successful model used for privatising olympic airways and transferring it to a private investor, will the commission say to what extent this model could be used for other airlines facing similar problems? how does the commission assess the prospects for future privatisations of airlines in the eu? how much do airline mergers contribute to addressing the crisis, without creating monopolies and reducing competition?
question no 34 by bernd posselt (h-0214/09) subject: rail artery for europe and the brenner base tunnel can the commission provide detailed information on the precise timetable and financial plans concerning both the leg of the high speed rail link for europe from strasbourg to vienna and the brenner base tunnel as the centrepiece of the berlin-rome link? what further steps are planned and are any additional opportunities provided by the recovery plan?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
mr president, parliament, i am afraid, is proving itself again to be rather fickle on the issue of turkey. i would be grateful if the commissioner could give us his frank appraisal of the ergenekon affair. does he agree that it is a welcome sign of the cleansing of the stables and a signal that the judicial process is finally starting to attack deep corruption inside parts of the turkish state?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to add my own congratulations to our rapporteur, janusz wojciechowski, for tackling a very complex and emotional dossier with some aplomb and dealing with a lot of conflicting viewpoints. in this speech, which is probably my last speech in this mandate, it is worth remarking to colleagues that this is what i call a classic european parliament european dossier. it is technical, it is complex, it is a little bit distant from our citizens, but it is worth remembering that animal welfare is of crucial importance to our citizens, and fairness is of crucial importance to our producers, to our consumers and to our market. i am particularly drawn to amendments 45 and 46 on ensuring that third countries seeking to export to our territory match our standards. that is a crucial element of fairness for our producers and for consumer confidence in our markets, so it is very much to be welcomed. likewise, the proportionality of the measure in amendments 65 to 67 allowing for on-the-job training is particularly to be welcomed for smaller slaughterhouses and smaller operations across the european union. also, the derogations allowing small abattoirs to be exempted from having the animal welfare officer present are very much to be welcomed. on religious slaughter, i think the commissioner is absolutely right. i do not think we need to regulate that in this package, so this is good news for consumers. this is good news for confidence in the eu meat market and it is a good job all round. my congratulations.
mr president, can i thank ms vassiliou very much for her work here in parliament. she picked up the dossier only for the last couple of years and has done an extremely good job, so i congratulate her. can i also congratulate janusz wojciechowski for doing a very good report and being a very good vice-chair of the agriculture committee. i believe that animal welfare standards in europe are absolutely paramount to the fact that we produce high-quality meat. we want to make sure that it is slaughtered carefully and to high standards, both for hygiene and for animal welfare. i do actually welcome the idea of mobile slaughterhouses, because i think this will be extremely good. i also think we have to be careful, because many small slaughterhouses in europe have been closed down in the past – and in my own member state that has happened – so we want to make sure we have got proper regulation, but not too much regulation that will actually close them down. i am going to be quite controversial now. i believe that animals are born into this world and we, as man, decide exactly how they are going to be slaughtered. i think the commission must make up its mind. either you accept religious slaughter and the fact that the animals are not stunned, so those animals in other countries which we want to be killed at christmas can have the same process, or you actually stand up for what i believe to be right, and that is that we, as man, decide how an animal is to be slaughtered and that animals should be stunned before slaughter. i think it is absolutely clear that this should happen. in some member states there is pre-stunning and post-stunning of animals under both halal slaughter and under jewish slaughter. i wonder why it cannot happen in the whole of europe, because we have to be absolutely certain that we treat all animals the same. while i accept subsidiarity, i also want to see the commission put pressure on member states to make sure that we have proper slaughtering and stunning in the future. also, when it comes to labelling, i see no problem. why should we not label animals as to how they have been slaughtered? if there is no problem with the halal and jewish slaughter, then why worry about labelling it? so let us have proper labelling so people know exactly what they are buying in the future, because it is very important for european agriculture to have very high standards.
rapporteur. − mr president, i intend to use somewhat less than my four minutes now in introducing it and maybe a little longer when i reply at the end, if there are questions that need clarification. this report is the fruit of a lot of work. the sources of the reforms that we would hope to introduce to our rules of procedure come in part from the work of the reform working group established by the conference of presidents, ably chaired by my colleague, dagmar roth-behrendt, who made a number of proposals that were approved by the conference of presidents and have been forwarded to us to translate as best we can into the rules of procedure. the second source is a lot of smaller changes that, in many ways, have been in the pipeline for a long time but, rather than have a string of reports changing the rules on minor points, we have grouped them together. some of these are technical; some are clarifying and make our rules more readable, such as the one that puts together rules 141, 142 and 143 into a single codified text governing how we actually organise our debates in plenary. related to that is the innovative amendment to say that we should have this blue card procedure to be able to interrupt each other. mr duff for instance, right now, may want to put a question to me about what i said, and i would let him do so for 30 seconds under this rule, if it is adopted. i am sure, mr president, you would already let him do so now if he wanted, but, fortunately, he does not want to. so there are some innovative features that should make our debates a little more lively. i remember when i first proposed the catch-the-eye period at the end of ordinary debates, everyone said: oh, no, we cannot do that, it will mess up the speaking time of the groups, and so on. yet we now do it, and it is an accepted part of our procedures and very much welcomed, i think, by most members. i would suggest that maybe the blue card procedure will be the same: there are some hesitations now, but let us try it out, let us see how it works, and i am confident we can make it work. there have also been some amendments which arose as we discussed this, either at committee stage or now in plenary. for instance, there was a suggestion that all final votes on legislation should automatically be by roll-call vote – i think that came from ms dahl. i welcome that amendment, and we have put it in my report. there have been suggestions from many members that we put something in the rule about intergroups, if only actually to delimit very clearly what they are and what they are not, to show that they are informal and that they may not take over the responsibilities of parliamentary bodies. so there are a lot of interesting things in here. there is also the amendment to deal with the odd system we have that our opening session is chaired by the oldest member instead of, for instance, the outgoing president, which happens in some parliaments – or an outgoing vice-president, even, if the president were not re-elected, perhaps. that is a rather sensible improvement to our procedures. i will wind up there. i have not used all my time, but, if i need to, i am happy to come back at the end and answer questions or queries.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first i would like to thank mr corbett for his work. the alde group will support the package. it is a modernising reform of the house, which we appreciate: it will make us more efficient and more pluralistic, and i hope in the end it will make us more attractive to public opinion and, indeed, the press. i have two or three quibbles, however. the first is on the point that mr szájer spoke about: the attempt to force committees to be rigidly proportionate to the disposition of parties in parliament. i think it is actually perfectly proper for a political group to express a preference to put more of its members on a committee that it regards as especially important. i think that, if we pass amendment 42, then the groups and members will find it frustrating, and it will require, in the end, greater flexibility. i would also like to defend strongly the changes agreed in the committee on constitutional affairs to rule 45(2) that costas botopoulos has just spoken about. i think we need to have a fall-back position to improve the own-initiative reports if they require it, and our experience since july, when that previous change was brought in, has exposed the fact that they frequently require improvement in the plenary. i would also like to commend amendment 68 concerning the recasting procedure. i think parliament has constrained itself too tightly, and we should more properly reflect the interinstitutional agreement of 2001 in our procedures to permit committees to talk about substantive changes to parts of directives or regulations that the commission is seeking to recast, but in a very restricted form. finally, i am seeking to take out the addition of split and separate votes to the procedure that will permit the president to refer back to a committee a report which has attracted more than 50 substantive amendments.
rapporteur. − mr president, may i first begin by thanking my shadow rapporteurs, who have got to grips with the detail of this issue: mr szájer, mr duff, mrs frassoni and mrs dahl. without their help and work we would not have been able to bring this work to fruition. may i secondly confirm what has been mentioned already. this report was actually split into two. there is another report which we have not brought to plenary yet – which we will have to revisit in the next parliament – concerning how we adapt our procedures to the lisbon treaty if it comes into force. we were, of course, looking at this as preparation, without prejudice to the ratification that will, hopefully, take place tomorrow in the czech senate and later in the year in ireland, but we will return to that with the preparatory work having been done if the treaty is ratified. secondly, may i confirm that, indeed, there are rules here which revisit, as mr szájer pointed out, recent reforms that flowed from the first report of dagmar roth-behrendt’s reform working group. it concerns this question of initiative reports, where we have a procedure which many members feel is a little bit too inflexible now. we have made it slightly more flexible. for a start, the debate will not just be a short presentation by the rapporteur, a reply from the commission and that is it. there will be up to 10 minutes of catch-the-eye possible for such occasions. secondly, when it comes to amendments, these are now prohibited for own-initiative reports. instead, groups can table an alternative motion for resolution. that right would continue, but in addition we would allow amendments if they are tabled by a 10th of the members of the house. mr wielowieyski, who has just left us, has criticised that point, but at the moment there is no right to amend initiative reports whatsoever. this enables a restricted right. we do not want to open the floodgates and have hundreds of amendments rewriting lengthy resolutions by a committee of 700-and-something members, but on the other hand a limited right of amendment where there is a strong wish for it, we felt, was a reasonable compromise and a right balance. another way in which a previous reform from a number of years ago is being revisited is the amendment by the alde group concerning recasting. i think that is also a welcome adjustment to the procedures that we have at the moment. may i also confirm that lots of new ideas have come from other members. i mentioned some earlier. i forgot to mention the article on the agora, which mr botopoulos and mr onesta can claim the paternity for. there are other ideas on the roll-call voting for legislative reports – not for all final votes but final votes on legislative reports, which i think i did mention earlier. finally, the points where i disagree with some members. mr duff, the rule on when there are a large number of amendments in plenary and the president can ask a committee to look at it: it is not a referral back to committee of the report. the committee simply acts as a filter for the amendments in plenary so that we do not have to spend several hours voting, but only on those amendments which have a certain degree of support. it is not a referral back. second, the point raised by ms frassoni about opinion-giving committees having the right to table amendments in plenary. i myself have grave doubts about whether that is a good idea or not, but it came from the reform working group on which you sat. it was endorsed by the conference of presidents. that was something that had a degree of consensus behind it, and therefore we are submitting it to the house for approval or, indeed, rejection. we will see how the house votes tomorrow. finally, i will not address the committee on petitions issues, because we are about to have a specific debate on that and i will come back to that point then. i will just finally say, in response to mr gollnisch, that he is wrong on two counts. this is not the same amendment that was rejected in committee. it is a different one, a different approach to the subject. i had grave reservations about the amendment that was submitted in the committee. i am happy to support the one that has been submitted to plenary. secondly, the oldest member is not common to all parliaments of the world, as he suggested. it is to many, but it is by no means the only system that exists, and it is quite legitimate for us, as a european parliament, to look at the various systems that exist and choose one which is suitable for our circumstances. it will be up to the house to decide.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, it is with great pleasure that my group can announce its support for the report by mr onesta, who has done a fine job in looking at this, and did it some time ago. it is a somewhat curious fact that the conference of presidents waited so long to put this report on our plenary agenda. however, the fact that it has waited so long and has put it on the agenda at the same time as my report means there is a slight interface on one point between our two reports, which ms frassoni alluded to in our previous debate. that is the matter of cooperation between the committee on petitions and the committee responsible for the subject matter. everyone agrees that they both have to cooperate and they need to work together, but there is an argument about what you could call the bottom line: if they disagree, who has the final say? you can understand both sides. the members of the petitions committee feel that they have received petitions, they have looked into the matter, they may have had hearings, they may have had a visit, they have sometimes found something that is perhaps wrong in the legislation that the subject committee has dealt with, and they feel they have got to grips with that and should have the final say if the subject committee disagrees. on the other hand, you can understand the subject committee. why should it suddenly find another committee responsible for the subject matter just because somebody sent a petition to that other committee? you can understand both sides. what i have tried to do to reconcile the two is to say that yes, of course, they should work closely together and, at the end of the day, the petitions committee must listen to the views of the subject committee. it can, if it so chooses, depart from the views of the subject committee – it is allowed to do so – but if it does, the price to pay is that the subject committee has the right to table amendments in plenary. i think that is a reasonable quid pro quo. i do not understand why ms frassoni said earlier that would destroy the petitions committee. i really have no understanding of how she could reach such a conclusion. certainly, the members of the petitions committee in my group have told me that they are happy with that compromise and i think it is a workable compromise. it is a compromise. if you are an extremist on one side or the other of this argument you will not be happy, but i think it is a workable compromise. it blends in very nicely with the excellent report by mr onesta, and i think altogether this package will work.
madam president, can i thank the commissioner very much for presenting this to us this morning, and thank ms stavreva very much for her report. it is very important that we deal with this ‘five billion’ package. can i say quite bluntly to the commission that, when they embark upon a five billion package in future, they should probably get a little more agreement out of the council before we get this far. i understand it is not always easy to get the council to agree to the money but we do need to know whether this money is going to be forthcoming in the end. i suspect it probably will be and i think it can actually be put to very good use. there is no doubt that agriculture is very important to the countryside but there are also many other businesses out there. especially when it comes to smaller farms, you do need another income. broadband in particular means that lots of small businesses can be developed in the rural areas. once broadband is available, the connections can be very good in some of the most rural areas we have in the european union. broadband could also be essential to help businesses go forward in agriculture, tourism and all those businesses that are linked to the internet. at this time of a real recession in the european union this is a stimulation package that – if we can get the money out to the right areas and if we can get it out in time – will make a real difference because we need to stimulate business. agriculture is important but other businesses are also important to the rural area and this package can help. so i wish the commission well with the whole project. i hope that you get the money but – as i said – i think in future we probably need to go about it in a much more uniform way.
mr president, our citizens expect us to provide real help for them in these troubled times. the european economic recovery measures before us constitute an important package, and i applaud the strong emphasis on green jobs and technologies that will help reduce our carbon emissions and promote energy security. i am also, naturally, very pleased that my own country will be receiving up to eur 500 million of financing to promote offshore wind energy and carbon capture and storage projects. however, it is clear that the overall package proposed is lacking in both size and ambition. i would like to see more emphasis placed on youth unemployment. we need to give the younger generation hope for the future. nevertheless, what we have here on the table today is, without doubt, better than doing nothing at all. labour meps will therefore support these measures, although we are clear that a new economic recovery plan is needed. i hope the conservative meps present will also vote to support these measures in defiance of the ‘do nothing’ approach of their isolationist leader, david cameron, who has consistently opposed labour measures in the uk, which offer real help to those worst hit.
in writing. – as part of the european economic recovery plan, an extra €1 billion has been earmarked for the development of broadband internet infrastructure in rural areas via the european agricultural fund for rural development. as someone who focuses on agricultural and rural issues, i heartily welcome this initiative. in many member states including my own, farmers and rural dwellers do not enjoy the same levels of broadband access, putting them at a distinct disadvantage in comparison with people who live in cities and towns. we should remember that this initiative is part of a package which aims to stimulate failing european economies. in this context, i am hopeful that improved broadband access will help stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas.
member of the commission. − mr president, two weeks after our last debate on measures against the financial crisis, i welcome this opportunity to discuss with you further actions which were jointly taken to face this challenge. today i am particularly pleased to welcome the prospect of a first-reading agreement on two key measures: the community programme to support specific activities in the field of financial services, financial reporting and auditing, and the review of the capital requirements directive (crd). they would both make an important contribution, not only to the recovery efforts, but crucially to the long-term effectiveness of financial supervision and the strength of the eu financial sector. firstly i would like to welcome parliament’s amendments to the proposal for a community programme to support specific activities in the field of financial services, financial reporting and auditing. the financial crisis has demonstrated the need to further strengthen eu supervisory arrangements. it has also reminded us of the importance of transparency and independence for bodies active in the field of financial reporting and auditing standards. for the commission, an essential move to achieve those aims is to reinforce the role of the key bodies in these fields, but at european and at international level. this is why the commission proposed to provide them with financial support. we believe there is a consensus that these bodies all need stable, diversified and adequate funding. when adopted, the programme will enable them to accomplish their mission in a more independent and more efficient manner. for the three committees of supervisors, the programme will be a first step in the strengthening of their capabilities in line with the recommendations set out in the de larosière report. it would give them the opportunity to develop projects which will enhance the convergence of supervision in europe and the cooperation between national supervisors. in particular, exchange of information will be made easier by the setting-up of new it tools. common training for national supervisors will enable the emergence of a common supervisory culture. the programme will also prepare the ground for the next steps of supervisory reforms, which the commission will be dealing with in the coming weeks. we also need to ensure high quality for finance reporting and auditing rules, which are harmonised at international level. we need to make sure that there is a level playing field for european users and these rules are being developed by the standard-setters. this is an important condition for creating a favourable business environment for firms, even more so in the current economic context. by avoiding the reliance of the international accounting standards committee foundation, the european financial reporting advisory group and the international public oversight board on voluntary funding from non-diversified potentially interested parties, we can improve the quality and credibility of the standard-setting process. by strengthening the european financial reporting advisory group we will provide stronger advice for the european union when international financial reporting standards are being developed by the international accounting standards board. by helping the international public oversight board to increase its oversight capacities, we aim to ensure that the international auditing standards will fit the eu’s requirements for quality when applying them. the proposed amendments make adjustments to the commission’s proposal on the way the envelope should be redistributed between beneficiaries. we are not fully satisfied with this. in particular we would have preferred that no amounts be redistributed from the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag) to the eu committees of supervisors. efrag is a european body. it is an essential element of the eu’s influence in the standard-setting process of the international accounting standards committee foundation. distributing amounts under the envelope from efrag to other european bodies does not send the right signal. however, we recognise that only a very limited amount will be redistributed from efrag to the eu committees of supervisors. we also believe we can still achieve most of the objectives we are aiming at under the programme and for these reasons we can support the amendments. as mr hoppenstedt said, i am pleased to take this opportunity to announce that coreper has adopted proposed amendments this morning and this means both the council and the commission can now support the parliament proposal. moving to the review of the crd, i am pleased to express the commission’s general support for parliament’s amendments. general support, but not full support, as the commission still harbours some concerns on securitisation. the proposal adopted by the commission last october is the outcome of extensive consultation, a process that started before the financial crisis. in many aspects this review of the crd has turned out to be a timely and robust first response to the crisis. the european parliament has commendably responded with a sense of urgency to adopt this proposal at first reading. as a result, we now have tighter liquidity risk management principles, strong rules on risk diversification, strengthened supervision, a better capital base, and skin in the game, coupled with due diligence requirements for securitisation. by any measure this is significant headway. on the now famous 5% retention for securitisation, i am pleased to see that parliament has resisted the call from industry to do away with what they had only last year characterised as complete nonsense. i would like to say that the retention rule has emerged as something that is not nonsense but plain common sense. it is now recognised by the g20 as a key measure to strengthen the financial system. looking forward, the commission will, without a shadow of a doubt, support any further efforts making the text even more watertight. the commission has been at the forefront of the global initiatives to tackle the crisis. the basel committee on banking supervision will follow suit. i therefore very much welcome the clause providing for a review by the end of 2009 suggested by the european parliament. the committee will consider the need for an increase of the retention requirement, taking into account international developments. i am also pleased to see that parliament has resisted the calls from industry for less stringent rules on interbank risks. let us just remind ourselves that banks are not risk free. this is a crucial lesson of the financial crisis. adequate diversification and collateral are critical to ensuring financial stability. on own funds i understand the reluctance of some members that parliament could consider the downgrading of certain national instruments that do not meet the eligibility criteria for core tier 1. let me be more precise. i understand this reluctance, but only for the current economic context. much recovery is on track. the commission is strongly committed to further enhancing the quality of own funds, as agreed at the g20 summit. as regards securitisation, the commission still considers that in some aspects there would have been merit in further clarifying and specifying the way the 5% retention will be calculated. i understand that the european parliament has worked under time pressure and i am pleased that the commission has been given a second chance to tighten up the text in a report due by the end of 2009. the two reports on which you will vote today demonstrate that, when meps, ministers of finance and commissioners think ahead of the curve and provide political leadership, a speedy and effective response to the challenges we face is possible. both measures discussed today will significantly contribute to paving the way for the revision of the eu financial and supervisory framework. in addition to these measures, last wednesday we presented a package of crucial initiatives to respond to the financial crisis, on alternative investment funds, on remuneration structures and on packaged retail investment products. last but not least, in three weeks’ time a commission communication will set out its views on follow-up actions to the recommendations of the de larosière report on financial supervision. upon endorsement by the june european council, further legislative proposals will be presented in the autumn.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. − mr president, i rise on mr hoppenstedt’s report to give the budget committee’s opinion. like mr hoppenstedt, this will be my last speech before this chamber after 20 years. the budget committee recognises the importance of these proposals and their urgency. it is quite clear that some key eu policies will be undermined without proper financing and therefore we are happy to support the proposal. however, we would point that this money is coming from the margin of heading 1a, so that will reduce the margin and therefore reduce the availability of funding for other projects which may be important in the future. we should bear that in mind. secondly, we should also ensure that these organisations do not in any way become agencies because, if they did, they would of course be subject to the interinstitutional agreement on agencies. finally, we would not want the budget committee’s position to be in any way undermined by the rush for these proposals. that is why the budget committee was happy to support mr mccreevy’s proposal on monday night about interim funding, so that we can ensure that proper financial procedures and a proper trialogue takes place on the financial implication of these proposals.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, we seem to be a succession of old hands rising to speak, but would that i were not making my last speech in the european parliament in the worst economic situation of my lifetime – and that is a lifetime that started in the blighted 1930s – and would that i were not also having to speak in a debate on a piece of european legislation which is not, i am afraid, wholly satisfactory: the capital requirements directive. i and my group will support the compromise reached by rapporteur karas with great skill and patience under heavy time pressure and in the current feverish economic circumstances. but i hope my colleagues who return here after the election will revert to the full codecision process, which can really fully test and refine our legislation. i fear that much of this over-hasty legislation will reveal unintended and untoward consequences. for example, i fear that the rules on large exposures, extolled by commissioner mccreevy and prompted by genuine concerns about counterparty risk, will make it that much more difficult to reactivate the interbank money market to its full and desirable extent. i fear that the new retention rule, also extolled by commissioner mccreevy, will, in fact, impede the revival of securitisation, which is an essential and predominantly beneficial mechanism for funding mortgages, car loans and consumer spending. all the government-induced stimuli which one might contemplate cannot compensate for a moribund securitisation market. so i just hope that, when the time comes to review this directive, the necessary impact assessments will have been made, that wise counsels will have been consulted, that the global context will have been properly and fully considered and that fully appropriate rules are ultimately implemented.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the agreed crd text is a good step forward on core capital, exposures and supervision. the securitisation provision, now with proportional penalties for due diligence failures, is not perfect but it is fit for purpose – the purpose to rebuild confidence and repair the securitisation market. review at the end of the year on the retention per cent means we have covered all bases, including international cooperation. european problems with securitisation came on the buy-side from the us, but fear has dried up our own securitisation. banks have lost the main instrument that enabled them to sell on their loans – an important instrument because it freed up capital for further lending and was a major driver for growth. in 2006-7 european securitisations totalled eur 800 billion: eur 526 billion supporting european mortgages and tens of billions each on car purchases, credit card spending and sme loans – yes, including something like eur 40 billion of german sme loans. these are the very areas where the credit crunch is biting hardest. it is no coincidence. because we have to face the fact that bank lending is limited by their capital and they are stuck until either more capital is raised or the loan sold on. so the sooner that we can get europe’s quality control securitisation working, the better. it may seem that, if 5% retention guarantees good behaviour by banks, then 10% would guarantee it more, but the retained portion attracts a capital charge so it reduces the capital that can be freed up and in turn restricts lending. a 10% hit during times of ongoing capital stress would just hurt borrowers and businesses, not banks. that is why other forums – also having started with higher retention proposals – are tending to settle on 5% too. ultimately, it will be intelligent supervisory vigilance that will prevent future new abuses rather than regulation for the old and gone. on level 3 committees we can see that, despite the problems and failures in supervision, it is parliament that has recognised better than member states that holes cannot be plugged without resources. it has followed this by demanding more resources for those committees. international accounting and audit bodies will also benefit from more diversified neutral funding and the eu can lead off on this, but not indefinitely if other countries do not join in. i am pleased to have clarified that. funding should also be sought from the user-side such as investors.
thank you, mr mölzer. as colleagues will know, the machine was checked last time and it was found that there was no other or inappropriate use of the machine, so the matter has been clarified. i see that mr hans-peter martin would like the floor. i give it to you briefly. (murmurs of dissent)
we have listened to you. i have said that the matter has been clarified. that is enough. thank you.
thank you, mr donnici. your comments have been noted and, of course, the president did make a statement on monday afternoon. your comments will be passed on to the bureau meeting this afternoon.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
the request is outside the deadline, but if it is accepted… are there any objections?
rapporteur. − madam president, i do not really think i need to add anything except that monica frassoni’s justification about particular amendments might be a reason for her to vote against those amendments. they are certainly not a reason to refer the whole thing back to committee, which would preclude the adoption of any of the amendments that have been tabled today and which would be most unfortunate.
rapporteur. − madam president, before you proceed to vote on amendments 49 and 67, could i ask that you reverse the order of the vote and vote first on 67, which is a later compromise that emerged after the vote in the committee? i think it would be more helpful for us if we were to proceed that way around.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, your words today were typical of your time as president. our groups may not always agree, but during your mandate you have proven an honest, fair and unifying figure, one whose modesty masks your many achievements. you were elected on the basis of a worthy pledge to engage our house in intercultural dialogue but your record reaches further than that. on members’ allowances, you concluded the vital work started by pat cox. on parliamentary procedures, you oversaw the reforms that many of us have long called for and, through initiatives like europarl tv, you have supported modern methods of communicating with our citizens. that is a record to be proud of and a legacy on which your successors should build. i hope you will write about your experiences and impressions. they will be too interesting to be left in the cold and powerful hands of oblivion. moreover, as the poet emerson taught us, there is no such thing as history, only biography. this parliament has become more powerful over the years. it will be more powerful still under the lisbon treaty, if and when it is eventually ratified. it will be interesting to see what plans future presidents will bring to expand on the role that you have played, projecting the common values and principles that we hold dear. but today i think i can speak for many when i say that you have earned our respect and affection. like you, this is my last plenary speech in my current role. having led my group since 2002, i have a touch of what we call in english the seven-year itch. although i will not sit in this seat again, i know you are aware that i am keen to try sitting where you are. president, on behalf of my group, i thank you. i thank the session services and the interpreters and all the staff who have contributed to the very fine job you have done as president of our house. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the independence and democracy group has tried to be helpful, positive and constructive right through this parliamentary term. (mixed reactions)yes, because we have been providing the voice of opposition and, in a democracy, opposition is essential. it is vital. but sadly, as president václav klaus pointed out when he came here, you do not actually think there should be any alternative view and, as a result of that, your presidency has been marked by your deeply prejudicial manner in the way in which you have treated the members of this house who have stood up and opposed the constitution/lisbon treaty. the defining moment for me in this house was when we had the french say ‘no’, we had the dutch say ‘no’ and then we had the irish say ‘no’, and this parliament wilfully carried on ignoring the wishes of the people. you just do not get it, do you? ‘no’ means ‘no’, and it is truly incredible that 499 members of this house voted to ignore the irish ‘no’ vote and to continue with the treaty. what kind of a parliament is this? if you believed in democracy, you would not just bulldoze aside those three referendum results. worse still, you are now so fearful of public opinion – you know that you are losing the argument – that you have sunk to abuse. i have had mr watson saying that i behave like an english football hooligan, when all i did was to gently point out that commissioner barrot is a convicted embezzler. gary titley said that i was a paranoid reactionary living on the fringes of society. well, he may have a point, i do not know; but danny cohn-bendit, that great champion of free speech, said that opponents of the treaty were mentally ill, and martin schulz, the leader of the socialists, said after one of the ‘no’ votes that we must not bow to populism and that the ‘no’ votes opened the door to fascism. i hope in the next four weeks, in this campaign, that the voters of europe can see the real face of this project. you are nationalistic; you are bullying; you are threatening; you are anti-democratic; you are a complete shower! (applause)
mr president, some colleagues may find this hard to believe but i am going to miss you. in all the time i have known you, first as leader of the christian democrats and then as president of this parliament, you have been a model of dignity, restraint and courtesy. you are an anglophile as well as a europhile and you represent all that is best in the integrationist tradition. you will be very relieved, no doubt, to hear that i cannot recall ever having agreed with you. (laughter)but in the career that we have both chosen, we know that ideological commitment is a rare commodity and we value it even when we find it in an opponent. you will remember how we clashed over your interpretation of this house’s rules of procedure. those of us who wanted referendums on the constitutional treaty had made our point in peaceable explanations of vote. our right to do so was set out unequivocally in the rules of procedure. you chose arbitrarily to disapply those rules – you did not seek to change them, which would have required a certain amount of time, you simply disregarded them. this is not the time to have that argument all over again. instead, let me say this: the president of this chamber is meant to embody the entire house, including those who espouse minority views, and when you treat us differently you open the door to despotism. for example, virtually every month there are demonstrations here about something or other and they are tolerated, but when we held up placards with the one word ‘referendum’ you sent in the ushers to snatch away our banners and several of us were later fined. i can understand why the word ‘referendum’ causes so much disquiet in this chamber: the electorates of three nations had rejected your constitutional model. it made you feel vulnerable and that made you tetchy and, since you could hardly attack the voters directly, you took out all your frustration on us, the visible eurosceptic minority in this chamber. colleagues, i do not expect to change your minds about the desirability of centralising power in brussels. but, from your own point of view, i would urge you to be a bit more even-handed in your dealings with those of us who are the minority. if only you could conquer your reflexive dislike for us, you might find that it would bolster your own democratic credentials. all organisations need their critics. your insistence that the eu is an absolute good and that any criticism of it is either dishonest or xenophobic has done you no favours, because without critical scrutiny the brussels institutions become bloated, self-serving and corrupt. my friends, i hope that there will be many more of us souverainistes here in july. for the first time in 50 years, this parliament will have something in the nature of an official opposition. it will be up to your successor, hans-gert, how to deal with that opposition, but i hope he will live up to the value of tolerance which this chamber keeps claiming to espouse. (applause)
thank you, mr mann. it will be investigated.
we now continue with the vote.
mrs dahl, as far as i am aware there is no problem. i see no problem with the voting order on the harbour report. we will proceed as it is on the order paper.
i have heard from several people and i take very carefully into account what our rapporteur has said. i took the step before this vote of taking advice from the services, and i have listened very carefully to what has been said. i have the power as president under rule 155(2) to decide on the order of vote. it seems to me that this issue is of such importance, both within and outside this house, that it would be appropriate to vote on the earlier amendments, but i do this also on the basis procedurally that, as i understand it, amendment 10 was a compromise that came forward only after the committee vote. so it seems to me that there are both procedural and other reasons why we should reverse the order of the vote. (parliament accepted rebecca harms’ request.) (applause)
thank you, mrs trautmann, i think the house understands the consequences of what it has done, but i thank you, nevertheless, for pointing that out. it would not have been appropriate to take the other compromise and, indeed, the vote was more than clear.
ms lulling, could you kindly confirm to me whether or not you make that request on behalf of your political group?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, very briefly, i hope the house will forgive me for this last-minute oral amendment to paragraph 14. colleagues may be aware that this is a sensitive issue and in some languages and for some member states this does give difficulties. it is important that we try to get the maximum support for this report at the end. the suggestion is that, instead of paragraph 14 as written, we replace the whole paragraph with a paragraph that has already been accepted by the house. this was paragraph 23 of the parliament resolution of 11 march 2009 concerning the spring 2009 european council on the lisbon strategy, and which covers exactly the same ground. i will read it; it is just a few sentences:‘notes that some member states have introduced the concept of a minimum wage; suggests that other member states might benefit from studying their experience; calls on the member states to safeguard the preconditions for social and economic participation for all and, in particular, to provide for regulations on such matters as minimum wages or other legal and generally binding arrangements or through collective agreements in accordance with national traditions that enable full--time workers to make a decent living from their earnings;’. as i said, this has been approved by political groups in the past. my apologies for tabling it now. the rapporteur is ok by this, and i hope the house will at least allow the oral amendment to be tabled.
exceptionally, colleagues, and those who are waiting to give explanations of vote, you will appreciate that it is now very late. we have all been here some time, as, particularly, have our interpreters. there are a very large number of explanations of vote, and i suspect we would not get through them by 15.00. that being the case, i am taking the decision, as we have done before, that they will be dealt with at the end of business tonight.
madam president, the rules are very clear that, after the vote, every member has the right to make an explanation of vote for up to 60 seconds. i am conscious that our interpreters have been here for a long time. i am conscious that we are keeping a lot of people from their lunch. may i suggest a compromise that was used by your fellow vice-president, alejo vidal-quadras, the last time that this happened, which is to allow people to make explanations of vote one person after another, which speeded up proceedings very considerably.
thank you, mr hannan. we did consider that formula. there are so many that i do not think it would work. you will be able to make your explanations of vote after the vote, in the sense that it will be tonight. i am sorry for that, but it really is too late – and you know how i enjoy your contributions!
in writing. − i am delighted to vote here today on this report to repeal a directive and 11 obsolete decisions and note that our next report from mr morillon (a6-0202/2009) will repeal a further 14 obsolete regulations. i congratulate my colleague on a move that we would do well to replicate across all our committees and all our spheres of competence. i would certainly favour some regulations and directives having a fixed lifetime that would stop the continued acceptance of laws and regulations and the burdens that consequently fall on us all.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, and in particular amendments 51 and 52, which replace the oldest member taking the chair at the opening of the new parliament by a ‘provisional choice’. i do not understand why we have ever had this bizarre rule. maybe the ‘father or mother’ of the house has a logic. the longest serving member at least has experience to fall back on, rather than merely age. we have already had this system abused by mr le pen and his front national when in 1989 claude autant-lara was parachuted into this parliament and made a farce of the opening of the institution with a lengthy and highly offensive intervention. within months he had stood down, having performed his function of bringing ridicule upon the european parliament. we cannot, 20 years on, allow mr le pen a second opportunity to bring europe into disrepute.
in writing. − british conservatives support ending the pay gap and other forms of discrimination between men and women. equal treatment in all forms of employment is crucial for a fair and equal society. however, conservatives believe that national governments and parliaments are generally best placed to act in ways that are most effective for their own societies and economies. conservatives support the sentiment that spouses of self-employed workers should have access to sickness pay and pensions and maternity rights. however, we believe these decisions are best determined by the member states. as the request for a new legislative proposal on equal pay based on article 141(3) of the ec treaty is covered by the conservative party’s pledge to opt-out of the social chapter, which we are not supportive of, we have chosen to abstain.
in writing. − i congratulate mr karas. this vote is an excellent outcome for many reasons. first, among them is the fact this is a package which parliament recommended and negotiated. i have been in such negotiations and i know how difficult such talks can be. second, is the substance, which is to say this legislation delivers better protection for british and other citizens across the eu. securitisation was the method by which the so-called ‘toxic assets’ were spread between banks, leaving huge debts in many private and public banks. the idea of retention of the originator asset by as much as 5%, subject to a review after impact assessments and international changes, is vital. reducing the ‘leveraging’ and ensuring the proper capital adequacy of banks is the guard against behaviour by banks which has brought us to the very edge of financial disaster. mr karas can be satisfied with his work in the negotiations. i know how difficult it is for parliament to get improvements to texts, but this first reading deal is a sensible one.
in writing. − although i am a strong proponent of animal welfare i am hesitant to ban practices such as the import of seal products provided it can be shown that the suffering of animals is kept to a minimum when they are killed. nevertheless, there are some practices which give great cause for concern, not least ritual slaughter traditions for certain religious purposes. given europe’s cultural diversity, some of these practices, which are alien to the eu’s respect for animal welfare, have begun to take root. as a result, animals are suffering needlessly. i accept that some religions attach fundamental importance to the way in which an animal is slaughtered in order for its meat to be consumed. however, the development of a culture of animal rights and animal welfare has been hard-won in europe over the past 30 years, and we should not sacrifice it on the altar of political correctness. animals killed by ritual slaughter methods must first be stunned in order to minimise suffering and further promote the values of animal welfare that we hold dear.
in writing. − conservatives support the principle of a minimum wage in the united kingdom. however, we believe that social security schemes and the minimum wage should be determined at a national level. therefore, conservatives have abstained on this report.
in writing. − british conservatives support much of the report and the provisions made for adequate income support, inclusive labour markets, and access to quality services. we also encourage a positive and inclusive approach to mental health, disabilities, and older people’s rights to work, as well as a tough stance on the fight against human trafficking. however, conservatives do not support the concept of an eu discrimination directive. furthermore, conservatives cannot support the call to establish a legal framework for equal treatment in employment to combat discrimination in employment and occupation and for an eu target for minimum income schemes and contributory replacement income schemes providing income support of at least 60% of national median equalised income. for these reasons we have abstained. these issues should be matters of national competence.
in writing. − the epp-ed group is generally supportive of the thrust of the original report by jean lambert. however, in committee another political group injected extraneous points into the report which were not only outside the intended scope of the report but which were known to be unacceptable to our group. they did this deliberately, for shabby party-political reasons, to make it impossible for us to support the report as presented to plenary. we have therefore tabled an alternative resolution which contains all the elements of her report which we do support.
in writing. − this report poses the question: how do we include people in labour markets who are currently excluded from them? the answer is patently obvious. we need to create more jobs and more capacity in our labour markets. the fact that the eu even needs to ask itself this question demonstrates one of the fundamental problems with brussels. far too much attention is given to job protection and not nearly enough to job creation. the european social model is primarily responsible for the fact that so many europeans are unemployed. the european social model does exactly the opposite of what it’s supposed to: it creates a two-tier labour market economy, bringing benefits for those in work and limiting the possibility of those without a job to get one. the social cost of endless eu regulation is also huge, dissuading employers from taking on new workers. so much for the eu’s vaunted plan to be the world’s most competitive economy by 2010. in order to create jobs for unemployed people, the european economy needs the eu needs to go in a fundamentally different direction. british conservatives are committed to accelerating that change of direction.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, iranian president ahmadinejad recently asserted at the un conference on racism in geneva that israel is a racist country. it is tempting to dismiss him as a populist demagogue courting publicity, but he has in the past outrageously called for israel to be wiped off the map, and israel would undoubtedly be the first target for the nuclear weapon he so much wants to build. we should therefore see his intervention in the light of his implacable hostility towards the jewish state, which is, quite rightly in my view, the eu’s ally and strong partner. regarding the accusation of racism, it is hard to find a more ethnically diverse and less racist county than israel, which includes arab, armenian, druze and other minorities in its society. the image is still strong in my mind of the airlift of ethiopian jews to israel in the 1980s. israel still of course maintains an open immigration policy based on its status as a home for the jewish people the world over, but we should also consider the position of israeli arabs in society. they enjoy democratic rights and a standard of living that are rarely accorded by arab countries to their own citizens. my suspicion is that ahmadinejad is actually seeking to distract attention from the appalling and abhorrent human rights record of the islamic republic of iran. in iran, journalists who dare criticise the regime are locked up, but israel has a free press. in iran, adulterers, homosexuals and juveniles are executed, including by stoning to death, while in israel gays and lesbians have the full protection of the law. in iran, minorities such as christians and bahá’ís are regularly persecuted, but in israel minorities are valued and their rights safeguarded. yet still, despite all this evidence, many members of this house would sooner criticise our democratic ally israel, than denounce a barbaric and potentially catastrophic regime in tehran. israel should know that it does have friends in this parliament, friends like me who cherish human rights and reject fanaticism. frankly, in my view, it is shameful that eu member states sent delegations to durban ii, knowing full well that president ahmadinejad would be present and come out with these outrageous comments.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, can i congratulate my friend and colleague raimon obiols i germà on this report. as one of this parliament’s annual human rights rapporteurs earlier during the mandate, and also as the socialist group’s vice-chair of our subcommittee on human rights, in this debate nearing the end of the five years of this european parliament, i want to commend to the house what we have achieved. i believe that we have coordinated well with the parliament’s delegations so that meps across this house have asked hard questions of governments in our representations worldwide, a process that i have been proud to take part in myself: from columbia to turkey, georgia to croatia. i am deeply proud of the work of the committee and of meps in relation to building democracy and election monitoring. indeed my own experiences in afghanistan, the democratic republic of the congo, the palestinian territories and angola have been some of the most special experiences for me during the last five years. i am deeply proud of the fact that we have engaged and represented this parliament – i think excellently – in relation to the human rights council in geneva. i think we have had real influence there. we have tried to move europe away from a block mentality to reach out to other regions of the world, and of course we have worked closely with the special representatives and rapporteurs, including the recent visit i helped host of the un special representative on business and human rights, an issue which is a passionate one for me. i am delighted that we campaigned and were at the forefront of the campaign for the european communities to sign up for the first time to a human rights instrument, the un convention on the rights of disabled people. i am delighted, commissioner, that, despite opposition initially from within the commission, this parliament insisted that we maintain a separate initiative on democracy and human rights, so that our funding for human rights is visible, is prominent and continues even in countries with regimes that wish to resist human rights. we are often commended for our work on human rights in this house but i commend the bravery and the courage of the human rights defenders whom we meet and talk to daily, who put their lives on the line for values and standards that are universal in our world and are precious to us all.
madam president, my congratulations to the rapporteur and to other colleagues. but this report has to be more than just words in a document. it has to be a report for action. paragraph 1 says: ‘considers that the eu needs to move towards a coherent and consistent policy of upholding and promoting human rights around the world’ and to do so ‘more effectively’. i want to address my remarks to the situation in sri lanka, and several points in this report are applicable there. paragraph 63 refers to the recruitment of child soldiers, which i, and i am sure other colleagues, deplore. i think it is paragraph 48 that refers to the death penalty. since the beginning of the year, some 5 000 civilians have been killed by attacks by the sri lankan government on their own territory: tantamount, i would suggest, to the death penalty and the death of innocent citizens. the sri lankan government and their military stand accused of a string of human rights abuses of their own people, from bombing of hospitals, the use of illegal weapons to denying humanitarian and medical… (the president cut off the speaker.)
rapporteur. − mr president, we heard earlier from ms dührkop dührkop in terms of the european refugee fund and the changes proposed in that in order to support the setting-up of the european asylum support office, and i am the rapporteur for the regulation which deals with that particular proposal – the asylum support office. the idea is that this is an office which is there to support member states in improving – we would say the quality (we know some member states have a difficulty with that concept of improving the quality) of delivery of decision-making on asylum requests, but also this office aims to assist in developing consistency across member states, as well as supporting those countries which find themselves under particular pressure at various times, either through continuing mixed flows of people coming to those countries or for other reasons. we have heard already from some about the problems caused by the lack of consistency between member states in their decision-making on asylum claims, and this has certainly been part of the background to the difficulties which are there with the dublin system. but what we want to see is this improvement, and part of what this is about is providing training. we are advocating that unhcr guidelines should be involved in that – maybe the starting point, even if they do not lead – and that member states should be able to draw on experience, that the office should be able to deliver joint training or, indeed, specific training to member states as the need arises, drawing on expertise from within the member states themselves but also from the unhcr and, indeed, relevant ngos. we thought at one point we might have got a first-reading agreement on this, but time and, indeed, our desire to pull together the package of measures looking at the european common asylum system mean that we have not got that far. but we have had considerable discussions between the shadows and also with the council on this, and this explains certain of the amendments before us at the moment, certain of which are technical in terms of bringing in things which are normally in the regulation, which were omitted in the original proposal. for parliament, the role of unhcr within this asylum support office is absolutely crucial. we also wish to see ngos closely associated with the office in the consultative forum and, indeed, involved in delivering training or receiving it where they are part of the delivery of an asylum system in a member state. however, the role of parliament is proving a little more difficult to find agreement on with the council. we are looking at parliament being involved quite closely in the appointment of the director, looking at the fundamental rights agency perhaps as our model on that. the other sticking point is, as jeanine has indicated in her introduction on the dublin system, the question about how much we can actually look at member states cooperating, as it were, from a starting point which makes that obligatory rather than voluntary. so those are certainly the two big issues at the moment. we are pleased that the council has indicated it could well accept our amendments concerning training itself and, indeed, bringing in external expertise, for example in terms of interpretation, where necessary. so we think we are moving forward on this, but we will see – when we get, maybe, an indication from the commission about how we are going to increase cooperation between member states – just how far we will be able to get with this proposal.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i too am the shadow on this package and i would pick up on what mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra was saying about the moral duty here. also, when we are talking about rigorous application, as mentioned by some members, some of us are more concerned that the application of rules is actually fair and that it does not stop people in need of protection actually getting it. one of the points about this particular package is how we improve that and make sure that all member states are operating to the same high standard. in terms of the reception of asylum seekers recast, we very much welcome the commission’s initial proposal and want to maintain certain parts of it, not least those concerning labour market access and adequate income support, which we voted on earlier today. i greatly regret that my own country, the uk, is opting out because of those two particular proposals. that is a real shame in all senses of the word. access to health care is, of course, also crucially important, in terms not only of emergencies but also of ongoing health care, particularly for those who have maybe suffered torture and therefore need support for their own mental well-being. in terms of the dublin recast as well, we welcome the initial proposal, we support the suspension mechanism and, indeed, will vote to keep the widest possible definition of family reunion.
mr president, if i may, i will immediately take a different view, which is that the asylum package, and the five rapporteurs who have taken great care over it, are worthy of support across this house. we have a shadow on the eurodac and lambert proposals, and i feel that we have had excellent cooperation in building a package which is both realistic and implementable, and which takes great care over transparency. for example, on the eurodac issue – the sensitive issue of asylum-seeker fingerprinting – we have had improvements in the way fingerprint data is used, and on enhancing the role and clarifying the powers of the european data protection supervisor. we would like to see key references to more articles of the charter of fundamental rights, and to human dignity and children’s rights, and the good resolution of the issue of language and asylum seekers, which has already been so well raised by antonio masip hidalgo and rosalyne lefrançois. on the lambert report establishing a european asylum support office, we believe this is a critical step forward in making cooperation between member states relating to the common european asylum system a reality. the socialist group supports this report, but we have also tabled amendments. we want to see greater transparency and accountability, as i think the rapporteur is also striving to do. we want to see the appropriate involvement of the unhcr and ngos, and i have added amendments which bring forward good levels of european parliament scrutiny in the system. i understand what the commissioner says about the speedy resolution and building of the european asylum support office, but accountability and transparency and quality of asylum information is also very important. to work well, the european asylum support office must produce the most useful, transparent and objective information, regularly scrutinised. with these safeguards, we will have a strong addition to a fair and balanced common european asylum system.
rapporteur. − mr president, i welcome the general support we have heard this afternoon for the european asylum support office and would very much like to thank colleagues for their cooperation and the work that we have been doing on this. we hope that we can get this office up and running as soon as possible. its aim, of course, is to improve confidence between member states as the delivery of asylum systems improves on the basis of the practical cooperation between experts, the training and everything else involved. maybe, as that confidence improves, we will see member states less worried about the fact that they might have to cooperate in an obligatory way to fulfil obligations. i welcome the commissioner’s clarity about the different missions of the asylum support office and frontex. they are very different things with very different purposes, although of course the cooperation and the delivery are important within them. one of the aspects that has been touched upon has been that of information about third countries – the countries of origin of those seeking international protection. of course this is one of the things that the asylum support office will be looking at: how to pull together that information from a variety of sources in a more standard format and perhaps a format where people will have greater confidence that the information is not being used politically. i think it is something of great wonder to many of us how one country will accept people from chechnya as refugees with quite a high acceptance rate, whereas another country close by will not accept anybody from chechnya. many of us find this absolutely impossible to believe when the same information is out there. so confidence in the quality of information and the way in which it can then be used by member states is also an extremely important part of the enhanced cooperation we will be seeing. we look forward to seeing this coming into being.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 may 2009. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by tadeusz zwiefka, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on bilateral agreements between member states and third countries concerning sectoral matters and covering applicable law in contractual and non-contractual obligations, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a procedure for the negotiation and conclusion of bilateral agreements between member states and third countries concerning sectoral matters and covering applicable law in contractual and non-contractual obligations (com(2008)0893 – c6-0001/2009 - 2008/0259(cod)) (a6-0270/2009)– the report by gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on bilateral agreements between member states and third countries on judgments and decisions in matrimonial matters, parental responsibility and maintenance obligations, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a procedure for the negotiation and conclusion of bilateral agreements between member states and third countries concerning sectoral matters and covering jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments and decisions in matrimonial matters, parental responsibility and maintenance obligations, and applicable law in matters relating to maintenance obligations (com(2008)0894 – c6-0035/2009 – 2008/0266(cns)) (a6-0265/2009), and – the report by maria grazia pagano, on behalf of committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on development of an eu criminal justice area, with a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on development of an eu criminal justice area (2009/2012(ini)) (a6-0262/2009).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank mrs pagano for her excellent report and her cooperation in drafting compromise amendments which took in, for instance, some of my suggestions. i think the european parliament is putting down a firm marker regarding its ambitions for a european criminal justice area in the future, with the twin ambition of bringing criminals to justice and upholding the rights of defendants and victims. the report rightly highlights key issues like the need for monitoring implementation of legislation; boosting the training of judges, prosecutors and defence lawyers; and new legislation ensuring procedural safeguards, as gérard deprez has emphasised. the european arrest warrant is an effective instrument for bringing criminals to justice, and i strongly regret that the british conservatives opposed it. however, we must ensure – and governments must ensure – that european arrest warrants are not misused for trivial issues, like pursuing people who stole a pig or did not pay a hotel bill. nor must it be abused for fishing expeditions for questioning, rather than the proper focus on return for charge and prosecution. the european arrest warrant – as others have said – and the whole of criminal justice is based on mutual trust. so the member states must show they deserve that trust by having high-quality legal systems and respecting, for instance, the european convention on human rights and strasbourg court judgements. we cannot have people returned, via european arrest warrants, to an eu country who are then sent back to a third country for torture. if defiance of strasbourg happens, then the fundamental rights safeguards in the european arrest warrant must be invoked. i think eu governments have ducked the challenge of tackling substantive disparities in legal systems and the patchy respect for fair trial and human rights. we must also try and ensure that the quality of criminal justice legislation is better in the future. hopefully, after lisbon – i am delighted the czech senate has ratified the lisbon treaty – we will have fewer press launches of member state proposals which go nowhere and then, even if they are approved, are never properly implemented. eu-wide justice and high legal standards are crucial for our citizens when they travel, work and set up businesses in other countries and when people have to try and explain themselves in a foreign language. it is high time that we made sure that anyone caught up in the criminal justice system of another member state was made aware of their rights and obtained proper legal assistance, interpretation and translation. finally, i am very disappointed that the uk government was one of those that blocked a procedural rights measure. i hope they are going to change their minds in the future.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − mr president, as the previous speakers have said, the development of common foreign, security and defence policies is one of the greatest prizes that is prospectively in our grasp as a result of the treaty. so national parliaments are greatly affected by the changes afoot. of course they retain national responsibilities for national security but they should also be required to play a leading part in close and regular collaboration with the european parliament in scrutinising and seeking to formulate a common european policy, criticising and interrogating their own ministers for performance in council and in transmitting to the press and public something of the new reality, which is that foreign policy is best made by seeking out, finding and projecting the common european interest.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, mr churchill said: ‘never waste a crisis’. well, we have a crisis today of the economy, of climate, of international instability, and it is clear to us, at least, in our group, that these crises greatly strengthen the argument for granting the eu an enhanced capacity to act globally. the treaty is the logical response to these challenges. it is the best treaty that can be agreed at this time. it is a good treaty; historically, certainly, it is on a par with maastricht. it builds up democracy and makes the governance of the eu more representative, efficient and effective. it is also a reformist treaty. it corrects most of the problems from which the present treaty of nice suffers. you do not have to be a militant federalist – as i am – to see this, but you do have to be a good democrat to get the point: first, that we need an integrated europe to shape our response to globalisation, and secondly, that a post-national democracy is not a substitute for, but a supplement to, historic national democracies. conservative and nationalist opponents of the treaty should tell us why it is that they prefer to stick with the present, ineffective and clumsy union and why they seek to retain for the nation state the absurd pretentions to nation sovereignty, when what actually matters is to make the interdependence between states and citizens work – an interdependence which is clarified and entrenched in this treaty. this treaty is a great constitutional step forward for europe, and i am proud to have been associated in its drafting. i will fight to the finish to see that it is brought into force and put into effect successfully and quickly.
mr president, i had been hoping that mr pöttering might perhaps be in the chair tonight, as i wanted to thank him publicly for giving me the opportunity of leaving the epp group a few years ago. i am delighted that my conservative colleagues will all be leaving the epp group shortly – an objective which i have worked towards for 10 years. we are here to debate the lisbon treaty so i would have reminded mr pöttering that his own country, germany, has not yet ratified. we in the eu claim to be a union of values, based on democracy and the rule of law, yet we ignore democracy. we ride roughshod over the wishes of voters. we rejected the results of referenda in denmark on maastricht, in ireland on nice, in france and holland on the constitution and now on lisbon in ireland again. we treat the aspirations of our electorates with outright contempt. so much for democracy! we are no better on the rule of law. we are implementing plans and spending based on the lisbon treaty ahead of ratification. this is little less than a bloodless coup d’état. mr pöttering says that a million irish voters cannot stand in the way of 450 million europeans. he is right. so let the 450 million vote on the treaty. britain will vote ‘no’. in all probability, france and germany will vote ‘no’ but you dare not let the people vote on the treaty because you know their answer already. in britain, all but eight of our 646 mps were elected on a commitment to a referendum, yet our discredited labour government has scandalously broken its promise. let me give colleagues due notice. we in the british conservative party will make a lisbon referendum a key plank of our european election platform. we will deliver a referendum and we will kill this wretched and shameful treaty stone dead.
mr president, this package of reports shows that, if the lisbon treaty comes into force – and this is without prejudice, of course, to the decision of the irish people – then we will have a union that offers more opportunities for participation, more accountability, more democracy and more checks and balances. that is the central message we can give out tonight, whether it is through the leinen report showing the increased role for this elected parliament within the institutional system; the brok report showing the new opportunities for national parliaments to participate; the dehaene report looking at the extra accountability of the executive branches of the institutions and how we will operate a possible transitional period; the guy-quint report showing that there will no longer be parts of the european budget that are ring-fenced from parliamentary control; and of course the kaufmann report on the citizens’ initiative. my group will support all these resolutions and we are proud to do so, i would just say, with one particular reservation, and that is on the kaufmann report, which we see as a first step: putting on the table a first reflection on how that might operate in the future. but we have to be careful – and i agree with what the commissioner said earlier – not to set up a system that is too onerous for citizens or has too many bureaucratic obstacles for exercising that right. but we have plenty of time to come back to that, should the treaty indeed come into force. we are talking on the day where we have achieved the 26th parliamentary ratification. i know that the british conservatives over there are not interested in that. they are chatting away on some other matter no doubt, but it is an important fact. twenty-six ratifications through parliamentary procedures: 26 ‘yeses’ to the treaty; one ‘no’. i would suggest that, in that situation of 26 ‘yeses’ and one ‘no’, it is not, as some people have suggested, undemocratic to look at that result and ask the one country that has said ‘no’ whether or not it is willing to reconsider in light of the ratification of the others. it remains their choice to do so or not. but i think it is quite reasonable that they themselves in ireland have come to the conclusion that they might be willing to reconsider if certain conditions are met. and it is incumbent on us to do what we can to address the concerns that were expressed by the ‘no’ vote. that has to be part and parcel of the answer and that, after all, is what the union has agreed to do. all the other member states – because it is the member states, not just the european institutions involved in this – have agreed to try and address those concerns to make it possible to achieve the 27th ratification. there is a wider lesson to learn from this. our basic rule book in the european union, the treaties signed and ratified by member states, can only ever be modified by the unanimous agreement of each and every single one of those member states. that is a very high hurdle to reach. it shows that those that claim that we are running roughshod over democratic accountability and ignoring the views of the people have got it completely the wrong way around. it is very easy to block any step forward, any reform of the european instructions. those eurosceptics over there only need one victory out of 27. the dice is loaded in their favour, not in the favour of those who, like mr duff, would want a much more speedy integration. that is the way it is. they also quote referendums that have given a ‘no’ result. i notice they only quote the referendums that have given a ‘no’ result. they never manage to mention the spanish referendum, the luxembourg referendum. i think if you look at the history of european integration there have been some 32 (if i remember correctly) referendums in the member states over the years, with 26 or 27 of them giving a ‘yes’ result and only a handful giving a ‘no’ result. but whenever there has been a ‘no’ result, it has been impossible to override it without coming back and addressing the concerns that were expressed and asking the country in question whether or not it wished to reconsider; whether or not it wished to change its mind. i find nothing wrong in democratic terms with that, with building up gradually, step by step, slowly, by means of consensus of all the member states, this union that we have worked on over half a century, this union that we should be proud of, with the fact that we have 27 countries working together in a continent which our history shows has all too often been torn asunder by the national embers that some are seeking to revive.
mr president, since the 1970s, british politicians have sworn the eu is not about political domination or loss of sovereignty, yet eu presidents state that we pooled our sovereignty and have a european empire, which makes 75% of our law. this treaty signs away our ability to rule ourselves, yet a bbc poll says that 84% of the british people want no more power surrendered. like mushrooms, the british people are left in the dark and fed manure. the conservatives, through the epp group, gave their allowances to the ‘yes’ campaign in ireland, then deviously promised to allow a referendum – but only if ireland votes ‘no’ again. behind the backs of the british people and with no mandate, the westminster parties have sold their country away, while the polls show 55% want to leave the eu. never before in the field of human politics have so many been conned by so few.
mr president, these past 16 months i have spoken 77 times in this chamber and i have ended every speech with a call for the lisbon treaty to be put to the people: pactio olisipio censenda est. i have done so in homage to cato the elder, who ended every speech famously with a call for carthage to be destroyed. sometimes it has been a bit of an effort for me to contrive that ending from a different subject, but not this evening. it is extraordinary to have listened to some of the contributions. not all. there have been some honourable and democratic pro-europeans in this chamber, but some of the speeches have been filled with such disdain, such arrogance, such contempt for public opinion that, now that the eu and indeed the member states are beginning to learn about the political value of youtube, you could do no better than to put the entirety of this debate on youtube as a party election broadcast for the various ‘no’ campaigns. i have been reminded of those eerie words of bertolt brecht: ‘would it not be easier in that case to dissolve the people and elect another in their place’? and all the speakers keep on saying that the parliaments have ratified. they are just advertising the rift that exists between the political class and the people in every member state. cato the elder was mocked and shouted down and the other senators used to mimic his voice. do you know what? in the end they did what he said.
mr president, i am just curious to hear this argument that somehow national parliamentary ratification is not legitimate because, if that is the case, let me just take the example of my own country, which has never, ever in the whole of its history, ratified an international treaty by means of a referendum. in that case, if it is illegitimate for the national parliaments to ratify a treaty, then the nato treaty, the united nations treaty, the world trade organisation, every commitment that britain has ever entered into by means of an international treaty is equally illegitimate. so i do not understand this argument that national parliamentary ratification is somehow undemocratic.
mr president, thank you very much for giving me this opportunity. i think it has been an interesting debate, whatever one’s view is on the european project and on the lisbon treaty. there have been lots of references to old men and old fossils, but let me talk about it from the perspective where i sit. to me, i see an older generation of politicians here stuck in a mindset of the 1950s – stuck very much in a 1950s solution to problems and challenges that the world faces. if you look across the chamber, you see much older people all speaking out in favour of the lisbon treaty, all condemning those people of ireland and other countries who voted ‘no’ to the original constitution and voted ‘no’ to the lisbon treaty. we even see old men of arms now talking about putting down your guns and speaking for peace. yes, in the 1950s that was a post-war solution to what had gone on before, but we must keep moving with the world. when you talk about democratic accountability, let us not forget one thing. when we started with the constitution, the rules were that every country had to ratify it or it fell. when we started with the lisbon treaty, the rules were the same: every country had to ratify it or it fell. so let us not push ahead with the lisbon treaty until every country has ratified it. if you really want a proper democratic debate, let the people of britain have a choice. do they want the vision that mr corbett proposes of a federal united states of europe, or a looser, free trade vision of a europe that my party supports?
mr president, my constituency in the west midlands encompasses both urban and rural areas, and the broadband provision in the rural areas is downright appalling. let me give the example of a town on the welsh border, knighton, where entrepreneurs are being let down by poor connections and are all saying ‘rescue me’. one of my constituents wanted to set up a business offering online services – which was particularly crucial as he has a disability, and working from home was the best way for him to do this. unfortunately, owing to the monopoly, the connection is very slow and not conducive to running a business. this funding is therefore crucial to rural areas and to economic recovery, and i wanted to ensure that it is distributed fairly across all the member states, prioritising areas where there is unworkable broadband coverage. i call upon all parties to rapidly come together right now over this and, once and for all, bridge this unfair digital divide.
mr president, on a point of order, you very rightly say that we are here late, and i thank the interpreters for staying behind. but it is not our choice to be here late: it was a ruling by the presidency earlier today – which was an unbelievably arbitrary ruling which has never happened before – to put back the explanations of vote until after the debate instead of, as we have in our rules of procedure, after the vote has taken place. so it is because the president in the chair at the time broke our own rules of procedure that we are here tonight, and all of us that are trying to make our explanations of vote are doing what we can legitimately do to raise our voices in a parliament that does not really like to listen to minorities.
mr president, i have bizarrely grown to respect the rapporteur of this report over the period of time and i wanted to talk about the petitions in general because they have been of great use to me. whilst people do not understand the institutions of europe and whilst people are slightly scared of them, sometimes they need a way of registering a dispute. the way we have registered petitions in this place in the past has been slightly cack-handed but has given them that chance to air a problem on a slightly different stage, when they might have exhausted many other opportunities. i have brought petitions to this place from people across my constituency; the ‘earls barton seven’ was one of my most famous cases. the point is that the petitions process is probably the only process that is properly worth protecting in this place. other rules and procedures and many of the other committees pale into insignificance when it comes to comparing them with the importance of the committee on petitions.
mr president, like mr corbett, i would not like to anticipate the results of any second referendum in ireland and i certainly would not like to anticipate the voting in the region of yorkshire and the humber in the coming european elections. but i wish mr corbett well in whatever he does after he leaves this place in july. i wonder what parliament will do without its rules rapporteur, the man who has almost single-handedly behind the scenes contrived to eliminate the powers of smaller groups and the voice of minorities in this place. this report is, maybe, not so bad but, because it is not so bad, it is worthy of further examination because quite often the changes in the rules, at face value, are completely fair. it is what they achieve in practice and how they are implemented by the presidency and by the bureau that really counts. when it comes to the package on the rules of procedure and their adaptation to the lisbon treaty, i do wonder whether he has overstepped the mark.
mr president, a few weeks ago we discussed the report on totalitarian regimes. at the time, i pointed out that there was indeed a common thread linking national socialism and soviet socialism, and that was socialism itself. we know that the rapporteur, mr corbett, believes in the european project. he makes no bones about the fact that he believes in further political and economic integration; he wants a united states of europe or a federal republic of europe. however, in seeking to achieve these goals he is calling for the suppression of minority views and is almost single-handedly destroying the principle of freedom of speech. i know he does not care much for the principle of freedom of speech. looking at this report, any evil dictator from the last century would have been proud to have mr corbett by their side.
mr president, since 2004 i have had many new colleagues from the accession countries here, some of whom i am proud to call my friends. when we talk about the bad times which they lived under, the thing that strikes me most is the way that they say that the really frightening thing, living in the comecon states, was not the absence of democracy, nor the absence of property rights, but the absence of a secure rule of law. if you were a troublesome critic of the regime, you would not be put on trial. your life would just be made difficult – your driving licence would mysteriously vanish in the post, your children would not get their place in university, you would be unable to find any but menial jobs. what worries me is that a similar double standard is beginning to pertain within our institutions. when václav klaus came here, members hooted and gibbered and panted at him like so many stricken apes, and no one was so much as told off. but when we protested in favour of a referendum, 14 of us were fined. goody-goody christian democrats can commit almost open fraud and get away with it, but when an austrian eurosceptic photographed people signing in for a meeting which was not there, he was fined thousands of euros for effectively filling in a form incorrectly. you might think that it is not my place to say this. i did not live under that system, but václav klaus did, and when he warns against going back to it, i think we should listen.
mr president, quite frankly, i have never heard more rubbish in my life than has been spoken about this report. ‘dictatorship and manipulation’? why on earth did it get such a huge majority if it was such a negative report? the first mistake its detractors have made is that it does not mention the lisbon treaty or implementation of the lisbon treaty. that part was set aside for the next parliament to deal with and not dealt with today. its objectors do not even seem to have read the report. as to saying that it is aimed at silencing minorities, there is not one single amendment in that report, or indeed or in any rules report that i have produced, that has that effect. this parliament is a parliament of minorities, unlike some national parliaments that are dominated by a single party majority or by the executive. this is a parliament where everybody is a minority, and long may that diversity continue to apply. as to the comments about shouting down václav klaus, which have nothing to do with this report, i know that a few members walked out during his speech, but when the portuguese prime minister was here, you lot tried to stop him speaking; you shouted him down. he was not even able to make his speech because you did not want him to get his pro-european message across. so i utterly reject what has been said. i am afraid i have used up my time so i cannot give the explanation of vote i was going to give, which was to say i am glad that my report was adopted in its entirety, bar one little mistake, which i think was when the epp got its voting list wrong. hopefully we can correct that in the next parliament.
mr president, this report goes to the core of what people think they are getting from the european union. many people in britain thought they were getting a kind of economic, trade-based, europe and that it was a europe for jobs. mr leinen, earlier today, told us that it was actually more of a social europe. what we did in the harbour and trautmann reports was essentially to choose. we actually chose that we did not want to have a further single market measure. in fact, people who wrote in to us who were concerned about this report were actually missing the point concerning its being a single market measure. if, before this report, you were downloading things illegally – like music or films – your isp could just shut you down and terminate your account without any notice. with the report, the compromise proposal would have meant that it had to contact you and you could dispute this. now, with the package that went though – which will probably end up in conciliation for years – we have a situation where you have to go to court to terminate what may be really illegal and disgusting sites, and that is surely not what the people of europe wanted.
mr president, i would really like to explain my vote, particularly the part on the e-privacy part of the harbour report. i think, at a time when we are trying to get the right balance between national security and civil liberties, i think many of us are fearful that more and more governments are collecting more and more personal data about us. almost every day in the british press we read stories about our big brother labour government collecting more and more personal data about individuals and, even when they are proven innocent, refusing to give back that data. but, thanks to an ecj judgment, some innocent people’s data will now be returned. it is interesting that we also spoke about the fact that consumers need to be told if there is a breach of personal data on electronic communications networks. there is something missing in this in that we have not talked about what happens when information society services such as google or facebook lose personal data, and i am quite pleased that in this report we call for the commission to investigate this further.
mr president, i see that now brussels wants to get its hands on the internet. commissioner reding says that it is intolerable for the internet to be regulated by a private company and, worse in her eyes, a private company with a contractual relationship with the american commerce department. this is the same commissioner reding who, in a pretty crowded field, came up with what may be the single most fatuous argument i have heard from the commission over the last term when she said that we needed a .eu common domain name in order to make the internet more accessible to women. the internet works. the current system of domain names and registrations works brilliantly. can you point to a single eu policy which is half as successful as the internet? the common agricultural policy? the common fisheries policy? i think not. the prosecution rests.
mr president, one issue that feminism has had an ongoing discussion about is that of the stay-at-home mother. let me try and address this in contemporary terms, helped by a lady called kristen mccauliff. one issue that feminism has had an ongoing discussion of is that of the stay-at-home mother. in season three of the simpsons, ‘homer alone’, the same issue is addressed. opening on a stressed marge, it shows a sped-up version of her daily routine. like a perfect storm, the combination of practical jokers on the radio, heavy traffic, a rude tailgater and maggie, who spills her bottle of milk all over marge and the car, lead her to breaking point, stopping her car in the middle of a bridge and creating gridlocked traffic in both directions. local newsman kent brockman shows up to report on the situation. it is at this point that the gender issues discussed in ann crittenden’s the price of motherhood are brought to light as brockman states, ‘an overworked and under-appreciated housewife has snapped and parked her car on a bridge.’ now i could go on about this particular simpsons episode but, safe to say, there is actually no time for me to do so and i shall submit the rest in writing because it is worth a good read.
mr president, i will not even try to follow that, but will just congratulate mr heaton-harris as this evening – or last night depending on how you look at it – he achieved his 100th speech in this place, and i know that you for one are grateful for that. we all need to recognise the extremely important role played by women, and particularly spouses, in small businesses and, particularly, in respect of the self-employed. i myself, before i was elected, was self-employed and my wife played a vital role in that business. it is absolutely right that we recognise this, and when talking about women in small businesses i would just like to end with the words of that great philosopher, john lennon. he said, ‘woman, i can hardly express my mixed emotions at my thoughtlessness. after all, i am forever in your debt. and woman, i will try to express my inner feelings and thankfulness for showing me the meaning of success’.
mr president, in the current economic climate, i think it is crucial that we do everything in our power to support those members of society who wish to contribute to our economy. this is why the eu, in the past, has brought in legislation for maternity and paternity leave. working nine to five is not an option for all. therefore, there are many people who are self-employed – many of them women, who are often overlooked. better maternity protection would help spouses in agriculture, commerce and small businesses and encourage women to become involved in these vital industries, where they are now currently under-represented. it is now or never for them – spouses or life partners, who must be given clear, defined professional status and benefit from at least an equal status of social protection as self-employed workers. there is no ‘return to sender’ for them. member states should ensure that assisting spouses can become members of sickness and invalidity insurance schemes and pension schemes. we have to end the travesty of women losing rights when they care or bring somebody into life.
mr president, in view of what you said earlier about it being past midnight and the cost that this would entail for parliament, i think i will desist. but i just wonder if you could give us a figure for what those three gentlemen have cost us tonight by their recitations of the antics of mr homer simpson and other things that are totally irrelevant to our debates.
mr president, we supported this report because it is the right way to go about tackling economic difficulties. we need to use this situation, not to draw in on ourselves and say ‘rescue me’, but to develop new practices and technologies that will enable us to emerge stronger than yesterday. mr president, knowing me and knowing you, i know that the focus of my group, to invest in energy efficiency and support attempts to create smart cities represents a fantastic opportunity for all of us and presents a vision for the future. combined with provisions on energy security, reduction of emissions and job creation, this report takes a holistic approach that will represent the best way for an economy to thrive in the future. some meps and some political parties reject the idea of large-scale investment at this time. their short-sightedness of vision takes my breath away and will only do harm in the long run. we can see clearly now what needs to be done, so i urge the uk government to do its utmost to make the money available through this package.
mr president, in all this talk of stimulus packages and recovery programmes, we are missing a rather important part of the picture. in order to pump money into an economy, you first have to suction that money out of the economy. the one-sided way in which we discussed this reached a pinnacle at the recent g20 summit, when leaders of the world boasted of having injected a trillion dollars into the world economy. ‘into the world economy’: where did it come from, if not – in the broadest sense – from the world economy? saturn’s rings? the red soil of angry mars? so what we are really talking about is taking money out of taxpayers’ pockets and giving it to bureaucracies, national or international, to spend on our behalf. if that really were the better way of proceeding, if we were all better off with state officials deciding for us how to spend our wealth, we would have lost the cold war and we would be holding this debate in russian.
mr president, can i end up by thanking all the interpreters and thanking you all. i think it is important to recognise the report in the context in which it is set. this is going to be one of a number of reports we are going to see on the financial situation, yet, as my colleague dan hannan said, we seem to be missing the point. how did the crisis start? actually it started in the united states of america with the subprime problem. how did the subprime problem start? it is because banks were encouraged to lend or forced to lend to uncreditworthy customers. so what we did – across the world, not just the united states of america – we built up a mountain of debt. when it comes to tackling that mountain of debt, rather than stimulus and extra financial regulation stifling innovation, i prefer the jimi hendrix approach. when he saw a mountain of debt, he said: ‘well i stand up next to a mountain and i chop it down with the edge of my hand. i stand up next to a mountain and i chop it down with the edge of my hand.’ i think we can all learn from that.
mr president, not for the first time and assuredly not for the last, i find myself asking what any of this has to do with the european union. methods of slaughtering animals reflect differing cultural, national and religious traditions, and it shows an extraordinary presumption for us to trample into this sensitive area. i want to use my remaining time – since this is as you say our last legislative day before the election – first of all to thank you, mr onesta, for your forbearance and your good humour throughout this session and to extend my thanks to the staff, to the ushers and to the interpreters. if this prolongation of the session beyond midnight has indeed led to this extraordinary extra cost, first of all i hope that some of it has gone into their overtime. they display a professionalism from which a lot of members of this parliament could learn. secondly, i would ask the presidency to look again at the rules. the reason we are here is because the vote was not followed, as is explicitly provided for in rule 163, by explanations of vote. this says that once the debate has concluded, every member shall have the right to make an explanation of vote in not more than 60 seconds. it really alarms me that we have arbitrarily set aside what our rules of procedure plainly state. if we want to change that rule, then that is fine. there is a mechanism for doing that. however, as long as that is what the rule says, it is incumbent on us to obey it in letter and spirit.
mr president, the time of killing is one of the most important but potentially one of the most sensitive issues we can legislate for in this house. but we cannot just walk on by, because many of my constituents in the west midlands are concerned that the legislation will affect their religious rights. the decision about whether or not an animal should be stunned before slaughter is not something that should be decided here but at member state level, through open dialogue and consultation with religious communities. we need to walk, not run. this seems to me the best approach on this issue. the role of this house is not to impose norms and values but to represent and reflect the views of its constituents and get a balance. we can work it out together. while most meps would prefer it if all animals were stunned before slaughter, we should uphold the right of religious communities to eat meat killed in accordance with their religious beliefs. finally, mr president, can i thank you for all those who are here tonight, because i think only the lonely are here tonight, and we are all hopelessly devoted to you because that is why we are here tonight.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, you are very kind. thank you for those words. it is good to be back for what is my last week in this parliament – or any parliament. after 25 years of elected politics that is an adequate sufficiency, i think. i just want, on this last occasion, to say that many of us in this house have invested a lot of ourselves in the reach process: guido sacconi and many colleagues have laid the foundations for a safer, better chemicals framework. my message to the next parliament is, ‘be vigilant; keep an eye on the process’. similarly, as satu hassi has said, we have a long history on asbestos, and we have a very strong feeling that we need to watch out for that. when i was lying on my hospital bed, having my heart bypass and feeling sorry for myself, i was watching on the television the earthquake in italy, and that put my problems into perspective. but it also, of course, reminded me in this context that, when you have a disaster like that, asbestos can be released into the atmosphere. asbestos is very often safe while it is covered. as soon as it breaks out, that is when the dangers occur, and so one of the messages has to be that we need to look at the at-risk areas of our european union to see where we should be highlighting the risk and monitoring it for the future. having said that, i would just say thank you to my colleagues for their friendship, their support and their messages in recent weeks. i shall treasure my 10 years in this parliament, and i shall watch with interest as the next parliament takes on the projects that perhaps we have been able to start. (applause)
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to thank our chair, paolo costa, not only for producing this report but also for his work as chair of the committee over the past parliamentary period. we are very indebted to his hard work. this report is a microcosm of paolo costa’s work, because it is a report that clearly shows that the wisdom of solomon, allied to the diplomatic skills of the united nations, is often needed when dealing with such technical details like ‘use it or lose it on the slot’. our chair has been a very good solomon and a very good united nations diplomat during his time. but yet again the civil aviation industry has demonstrated its ability to be disunited on this important issue, with big airlines clamouring for a suspension while low-cost airlines and airports are demanding no suspension. what concerns me is that the big airlines, backed up by their various alliances, will not be satisfied with one suspension but will demand others and, knowing the unhealthy, undemocratic influence that some of them have both in this and national parliaments, i believe today is a mere start of a process, sadly not the end. my group will support the compromise proposed by our rapporteur and endorsed by the committee on transport and tourism, but i stress that this suspension, as my colleague georg jarzembowski often says of the ‘use it or lose it’ clause, is a one-off for one period and does not represent a green light for further suspensions. if the commission feels that further suspensions are needed, then they must be made part of a revised regulation, fully involving this parliament and fully respecting the rights of this parliament. it is ‘yes’ to debate, it is ‘yes’ to cooperation, but it is ‘no’ to comitology. i recognise the perilous state that the aviation industry and airlines in particular face. i also understand that slots are not just about take-off and landings. they have become capital collateral on airlines’ financial books and our rapporteur is right when he states that this aspect needs to be revisited in the future. suspension of ‘use it or lose it’ will not affect london heathrow, frankfurt, paris charles de gaulle or amsterdam schiphol, but it will affect regional airports serving those hubs, because it is those routes the airlines will suspend. what airlines need to remember is that there are other stakeholders, not just them, that will be affected by this suspension. because the economic situation is not good and because we recognise the nonsense of flying empty aircraft, we will support our rapporteur on this occasion, but i hope our caveats to this have been duly noted for future reference, not only in this chamber, but by the wider aviation industry as a whole. finally, as the socialist coordinator, can i thank all my team, but also my fellow coordinators from other groups for the sterling work and the cooperation that we have shared with each other during the last five years. i also extend those thanks to commissioner tajani and his team in the time that he has been in the transport commissioner’s seat.
mr president, having heard from a number of speakers who will no longer be with us after the next election, i am hoping that the electorate in britain will allow me to come back here for another term. this is the last time that i shall be speaking from this particular seat in the chamber: i shall be relocated during the changes. can i just congratulate mr jarzembowski in particular on the work he has done on behalf of us all in the committee, and thank mr tajani, and also mr costa for bringing this matter before us. debating the suspension of the 80/20 rule is very important, but it can only be a short-term measure and it must not be allowed to become part of the aviation policy in the longer term. the positives are obvious: helping carriers, especially the large national flag carriers, through the present economic downturn; also, not being able to fly empty planes to fulfil slot obligations is good for the environment. but the solution is not in this and it must not become permanent. the current problems are linked to the present financial crash, but to claim the crisis in the aviation industry is wholly down to this would be wrong. the health of some of our flag carriers has been poor for a number of years, and they need to have a careful look at their own business models for the future. they must be viable business entities, not specially privileged organisations, and resorting to protectionist measures is not acceptable in general to me and to my colleagues. we will, of course, support the commission in this. but i do not support the use of simplified procedure in the future and i think it would be a good idea for us to have a hearing on the slot allocation directive, perhaps in the autumn or winter when we come back. we must find measures to put in place market-based incentives for airlines and airports. in times of difficulty, efficiency and innovation need to be rewarded – i am a fan of regional airports in particular. lastly, let us just mention the plight of pilots: the suspension of ‘use it or lose it’ may well see some pilots out of a job. speaking as a pilot myself: can the commission please explain why the pilots’ associations were not consulted in this matter, and could it also confirm that the concerns of pilots and other people working in this industry will be fully taken into account?
mr president, i rise under rule 145 in order to make a personal statement. yesterday, during the debate with president pöttering, mr farage – during a harangue he gave parliament – accused me of calling him ‘reactionary’. i have to say to parliament that this is entirely true – he is a reactionary! (laughter) that is as nothing compared to the comments i have had from members of his party in e-mails. i have been described by members of ukip as a ‘paedophile’ and a ‘big fat git’. indeed, when i had a bomb in my office, ukip members wrote to me, and mr farage put out a press release, basically saying that it was what i deserved. recently i have had ukip e-mails telling me that the heir to the british throne is better known as ‘big ears’. that tells you all you need to know about the uk independence party. (applause)
mr president, that was not a point of order and most of it was rubbish. ukip people do not write that kind of stuff, and they do not waste their pens on the kind of person that says that kind of thing. that is absolutely outrageous.
mr president, forgive me for interrupting your chairing, but my understanding was that amendment 16 was actually rejected, and yet you announced it was adopted. could you just clarify the situation?
mr president, now i understand what the tactic is: it is simply to disregard the votes and implement the lisbon treaty as though the electorates of france, the netherlands and ireland had in fact voted ‘yes’. one by one, its most contentious articles and provisions are being brought in: the foreign minister and the foreign policy, the charter of fundamental rights and the harmonisation of justice and home affairs. then colleagues are going to turn around to the irish electorate and say: ‘it is too late to vote “no” now, because we have implemented the whole thing, so all you would be doing is annoying everybody and isolating yourselves when, in fact, the bulk of the lisbon treaty is already in force de facto, if not de jure.’ i do not know whether that is going to work. that is going to be up to the irish electorate, but i would be rather disappointed if they gave in to pressure. it is, of course, for them to take their own decision, but these are, after all, people whose fathers saw off the might of the british empire. if they now give in to the european parliament, i think they would be diminished as a people.
mr president, may i also add to the growing numbers of tributes that were paid to you earlier on. thank you very much for your chairmanship and your patience whenever we have risen to speak. i think it is very important that we recognise, when it comes to the lisbon treaty, that it has not been ratified yet, and we should not behave as if it has been ratified. we should not ignore the will of the voters who have not yet ratified it and those countries that have not yet ratified it. let us also remember the rules at the start of the game and let us not try to change the rules half-way through. at the start of the constitutional process the rules were that every country had to ratify or it fell. france and the netherlands failed to ratify so the constitution fell. also with the lisbon treaty, the rules at the beginning were that every country has to ratify, otherwise it falls. yet when the irish people voted ‘no’ we decided to continue and to make them vote again. if you really want the will of the people to follow this, then i suggest to the british government that they meet their manifesto commitment and have a referendum on the lisbon treaty.
mr president, after 15 years this will be my last speech in the european parliament and i think there are few more important issues than the whole question of asylum and how european countries face this challenge. there is no easy response to this issue either. if there was, some country would have found it by now. in reality, i would suggest that the only way to reduce the number of desperate people who seek refuge or asylum in a country other than their own is to address the root causes that force them to leave their homes and countries of origin. that is why it is so important that we in the eu, and in all developed democratic countries, offer advice, help and support – including financial support – to those countries that are affected by war, internal violence, lack of human rights or discrimination. equally, we have to address the poverty around the world which contributes to migratory pressures. we should never condemn people who are forced to seek asylum or refugee status. instead, we should offer sympathy and offer our support. that is our challenge today.
mr president, the right to control your borders is a defining attribute of statehood and the bestowal of residence or nationality rights is a characteristic of nationality. when we transfer that from national to european level, we are treating the eu as a single jurisdiction with its own external borders and the other trappings of nationality. this has no mandate: nobody has voted for this creation of a european asylum office. but, of course, what we are doing is creating a new bureaucracy, which will now have a vested interest in the continuous harmonisation of policy at european level down the years, with or without any popular support. i must just respond – on a different subject – to the words spoken and aimed at me by gay mitchell, the mep for dublin, a second ago. he threw winston churchill at me and said it was a disgrace for the party of churchill to be sending to strasbourg people like me. let me finish my speech by quoting churchill himself on the subject. he said: ‘we have our own dream and our own task. we are with europe but not of it. we are linked but not combined. we are interested and associated but not absorbed. and should european statesmen address us in the words that were used of old, “shall i speak for thee to the king or the captain of the host?”, we should reply with the shunamite woman “nay, sir, for we dwell among our own people”.’
mr president, i rise in support of the costa report. however, i am concerned, and i wanted to bring to the attention of this house how provisions like these are being used to stifle competition rather than protect airlines, the purpose of this legislation. it is not unusual for airlines to hoard airport slots. let me share an example with you: birmingham airport in my constituency. we have seen the suspension of direct flights to amritsar by air india. this highly popular and profitable service was cancelled last october, forcing customers into unnecessary travel and inconvenience to go to other airports, the reason being that air india did not want to lose its highly valuable heathrow slots. it really takes your breath away that there are plenty of other airlines who would be filling to fill the slots but are unable to because air india is holding onto them. what i hope will happen as a result of this is that we will ensure that airlines do not hold on to slots unnecessarily. the commission needs to be vigilant that this legislation is not misused. it is not just that i have a suspicious mind, but the chances are that the consumer will be left with precious few choices.
mr president, whenever we discuss human rights we seem to be talking about a virtual eu: a european union that exists only in parliament resolutions, commission press releases and council communiqués. it is that wonderful, peaceful, human rights eu that spreads its values not through daisy-cutter bombs but rather through trade accords and partnership agreements. however, i feel it is incumbent on somebody to stand back and ask where this european union is in the real world. in the real world, brussels is seeking to sell arms to the communist regime in beijing and isolating taiwan, it is cosying up to the ayatollahs in tehran, it is refusing to do business with the anti-castro dissidents in cuba and it is trying to funnel cash to hamas. it is running protectorates – or satrapies as they were in ottoman days – in bosnia and in kosovo, and within its own borders it is disregarding the will of the people in referendums. perhaps when we respect that basic right of being able to change your government through the ballot box and change public policy through your vote within the european union, then we will have earned the moral authority to lecture others.
mr president, one of the issues that concerns a number of my constituents in london is the massive erosion of civil liberties that we have seen in britain under the labour government since 1997. what concerns them even more is when i tell them about the massive erosion of civil liberties arising at the eu level. we have seen a number of treaties, such as the prüm treaty, that have caused great concern. fortunately, a recent ruling by the ecj forced the british government to hand back the data and profiles of people who were proven innocent, when the government wanted to keep hold of them. however, the decision by the british government to only remove the profiles of innocent people after at least six years shows that it has scant regard for our freedoms. the decision highlights that in britain ‘innocent until proven guilty’ is treated as a dismissible sound bite, rather than as a fundamental precept of our society. it is bad enough that british police forces have access to this large amount of data and personal information, but other european governments will be able to access it too. the prüm treaty was forced into european law without proper democratic scrutiny. it was thought that over 3.5 million people could now have their personal information flung around the eu. this will fill few people with confidence.
mr president, i know this place has little concept of what the people of europe actually want. it much prefers to tell them how we feel what they should want. i am being unkind; i guess members in this place do understand what our electors want and how they feel about europe. however, many of us in this place simply do not care. they do not care about listening to minorities in this place who believe that the eu is heading in the wrong direction, and they certainly do not care to take on board the votes across the eu that go against them in referenda. they do not care if they get their way by governments – like the one in the uk – lying to their electorate, getting a false mandate, promising a referendum on these matters and then reneging on that promise. what people do care about here is time. why? why the big rush to get the lisbon treaty ratified across the 27 member states? the answer is very simple: to deny the british people a say on this matter. i leave this place today, hopefully to go back to my member state parliament, the house of commons, to represent people in woodford halse, daventry, long buckby, guilsborough, brixworth, earls barton and elsewhere across the constituency known as daventry. they are people who have had enough of being ignored by the current uk government, by people in this place and by the european commission. should i get to the house of commons, i will not rest until my constituents have their say on this treaty. fortunately, i am led to believe that that vote in the uk will come quite quickly. so rush through what you like here. the people of britain will get their say.
mr president, i would like to make an explanation of vote on the brok report: firstly, as a tribute to the work that mr brok has done in this institution; secondly, to show my support for the ratification of the lisbon treaty, but, more importantly, to urge my government, when the lisbon treaty is ratified and when we have an extra seat coming to the united kingdom, to allocate that seat to the people of gibraltar. i am proud to have represented gibraltar for the past five years in this parliament and i am happy to continue. but i honestly have to say that it is difficult for the seven members who have been elected to represent gibraltar to do full justice over the range of issues that come to us: human rights, whistle-blowing, pensions, cross-border pollution and, of course, bilateral relations with spain. some people argue that the numbers do not work. it will be giving up too much to give gibraltar a seat. well, for many years in this institution denmark gave a seat to greenland. greenland has around twice the population of gibraltar. denmark gave 8% of its seats to 50 000 people. i am asking the british government to give less than 1.5% of its seats to the 26 000 people in gibraltar.
mr president, in 10 years in this chamber i have listened to an awful lot of humbug, but i do not think i have ever heard such unadulterated piffle as i heard in the debate on this report yesterday from paleo-federalists such as mr brok and mr corbett, canting about the sovereignty of national parliaments as though they cared about it. the sovereignty of a parliament is shorthand for the sovereignty of the people. it is not there to guarantee the privileges of national parliamentarians. when we elect a parliament we entrust it with the safeguarding of our liberties for a temporary and contingent period. national parliamentarians have no right to make permanent derogations to those freedoms without going back and asking for an explicit mandate from the people. we have 646 members of parliament in the united kingdom. 638 of them were elected on the basis of an explicit promise that they would put the european constitution to a referendum before they ratified it. when we hear all this stuff about how the european constitution is now legal because all these parliamentarians have gone ahead with it, that does not invalidate the case for a referendum: it invalidates the case for representative democracy as it is. if you want to restore honour and meaning and purpose to our existing systems of representative government, we should trust the people and give them their referendum – as we promised. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
in writing. − british conservative meps fully support a policy of equal opportunity and non-discrimination of women in all areas of public and commercial life. however, this document is over-prescriptive in its approach and tries to micromanage all areas of external action including setting up an eu institute of gender equality without recognising the strides made by all eu institutions to make every opportunity available to female staff. the report talks of benchmarks and objectives highly suggestive of quotas in all but name, and advocates deploying women on esdp missions without clarifying their combatant status. therefore, british conservatives abstained on this report.
in writing. − the european parliament has no role or responsibility to implement the lisbon treaty. why not? because the treaty has not come into force: indeed, it was rejected comprehensively by irish voters last year. therefore, to talk about the european parliament’s new role and responsibilities in implementing the lisbon treaty is breathtakingly arrogant and symptomatic of the institutional imperviousness to democratic opinion that characterises the eu. i hope that when irish voters go to the polls later this year they will reject the lisbon treaty again. the leader of my party, the conservative party, david cameron, is committed to holding a national referendum on the lisbon treaty if it has not already entered into force. i would therefore hope that the people of britain could have the chance to drive the final nail into the coffin of this wretched treaty. british conservatives believe in a very different vision of the eu to the one represented by the lisbon treaty, and we are rightly forming a new political group in the european parliament to champion our vision.
in writing. − why are we even talking about the lisbon treaty when it has yet to come into effect? why are we effectively ignoring the democratic will of the irish people, who voted to reject the treaty a year ago? the reason, of course, is that the eu cares very little for democratic opinion and is determined to move rapidly towards ever-closer union despite a lack of popular legitimacy. irish voters will have to vote yet again on this treaty because the eu simply does not take no for an answer. the chasm between the eu and its citizens is growing all the time. referring to the lisbon treaty as though it were a fact of life merely serves to reinforce this democratic deficit. for this reason, and many others, i am pleased that british conservatives will be part of a new political group in the next parliament, dedicated to reforming the eu and challenging the prevailing orthodoxy of ever-closer union which has proved so unpopular and caused so much damage in my region of north-east england.
in writing. − uk conservatives have voted against the asylum package as, while we believe in cooperation in this area, we do not believe in a communitarised approach to asylum and immigration policy. we believe that the protection of national borders for us remains a key element of public policy at national level.
in writing. − the establishment of this office is yet another step towards a common eu asylum and immigration policy, which is a policy i totally reject. i believe that the issue of whom to allow into the united kingdom should be the responsibility of elected parliamentarians and accountable ministers in the united kingdom, not the responsibility of the eu. handing the eu control of asylum and immigration policy would be deeply inimical to our national interest and would potentially expose us to greater risks from terrorism and organised crime. the progress towards a common asylum and immigration policy is another sign of the eu's determination to create a single political entity with uniform rules for everyone. that's not the vision that british conservatives have for the eu, and we will be promoting a very different vision of the eu when we form a new political grouping in the next parliament.
in writing. − one of the positive aspects of the eu is the way in which it seeks to spread values of democracy, human rights and good governance throughout the world by way of its relationships with third countries. it is, however, deeply ironic that the eu places so much emphasis on democracy elsewhere while ignoring democracy within the eu itself, as can be seen by the reaction to ireland’s rejection of the lisbon treaty. i wish to draw attention to two parts of the world: firstly, central asia. although i recognise the strategic importance of this region to the eu, i believe that continued engagement on the eu’s part must be matched by advances in human rights and democratisation in central asia. secondly, i would like to contrast the human rights situation in the authoritarian communist dictatorship of china with the vigorous and free democracy of taiwan. taiwan enjoys an exceptionally high standard of human rights in east asia and can serve as an example to china of what societies can achieve when they take the bold decision to become truly free.
in writing. − i take issue with amendment 2, which criticized the roman catholic church and its leader pope benedict for his views on the use of condoms, but wisely the house rejected this amendment. there is little evidence that promoting the use of condoms actually prevents the transmission of aids. pope benedict is entitled to his views as his own human right, whether or not others agree with them. i wonder whether this report would have dared to criticize a leader of another major world religion in the same hostile way. it is the role of the roman catholic church to lead the faithful, not to be led. we should accord more respect to a church and a religion on which the values of our union are founded. british conservative meps support high standards of human rights in the world, but overall abstained on the report in the final vote as it included issues like ‘reproductory rights’ – which effectively mean abortion – and the death sentence, which are individual conscience matters, as well as advocating policy areas like the icc, and the lisbon treaty, which we have a party position opposing.
in writing. − i am the strongest supporter of genuine human rights and therefore have no difficulty with many aspects of this report. i was personally responsible for introducing a paragraph asking the council and member states to take more effective action over the human rights catastrophe caused by the mugabe regime in zimbabwe. however, the report consistently and unaccountably refers to the eu as if it were a sovereign state – references that i and other members attempted unsuccessfully to remove at the committee stage. the idea that individual member states should surrender their national prerogative on matters of human rights to the european union, whether in the forum of the united nations or elsewhere, is totally unacceptable. i also object to the gratuitous and unnecessary references to the treaty of lisbon, which conservatives and many others have consistently opposed. i therefore abstained on the final vote on the report.
in writing. − uk conservatives believe that, while cross-border cooperation in criminal justice is important, the report seeks to create a common justice area at an eu level, which would significantly compromise the traditions of those countries which base their legal system on common law. therefore, we cannot support this proposal.
in writing. − criminal justice is rightly the responsibility of eu member states. i can accept that member states need to cooperate in trans-national matters related to criminal justice but i do not accept the development of an eu criminal justice area. extending the eu’s so-called ‘competence’ into criminal justice would be an unwarranted and unacceptable intrusion into british sovereignty. people in my region of north-east england want criminal law to be made by accountable british parliamentarians and applied by british judges. the fact that the eu is seeking to extend its powers into areas hitherto reserved for member states exclusively shows the true aim of the eu: to create a federal superstate. people in my region do not want to see that occurring. they reject the conventional wisdom of ever-closer union and want to see a looser, more flexible system of intergovernmental cooperation. i hope the new group in which british conservatives will sit in the next parliament will be able to deliver what most britons want from europe.
in writing. − i and my labour delegation colleagues support the introduction of the citizens’ initiative in the event of the successful ratification of the lisbon treaty. it would strengthen citizens’ rights of participation in the european political process and be additional to the valuable existing right to petition the parliament. however, i am concerned that mrs kaufman’s proposals would lead to the citizens’ initiative process becoming bogged down or hampered by onerous bureaucratic requirements (like member states having to check every signature and pre-certification by the commission that it is legal). to encourage more participation, we should follow the spirit of the citizens’ initiative – namely that it should be as accessible and easy to use as possible. therefore, we had no alternative but to abstain on this report.
madam president, the jailing of the journalist roxana saberi on trumped-up spying charges is shameful and another appalling crime in the long list of criminal abuse by the fascist regime in tehran. last friday, as paulo casaca told us, their executioners took a 23-year-old girl from her cell and led her to the gallows without first allowing her access to her parents. they hanged dilara darabi for a crime she denied committing at the age of 17. this is what passes for justice in iran. the medieval torture and execution of women – even pregnant women – and children is commonplace. the abuse of human rights is a daily fact of life, and yet we have people in this parliament who support this corrupt and evil regime: just like those european companies which continue to do business with iran, their eyes and ears are closed to the screams of the oppressed. shame on them and shame on the brutal mullahs. they should remember the lessons of history: every fascist regime is doomed to fail; freedom and justice will always prevail over evil.
madam president, i wish to support my colleague – even though he is scottish – struan stevenson. persia, as we all know, was one of the great civilisations of our continent and this world. there are many iranians who are decent and good people. struan spoke from the heart, and he is right. no man kills women and children and lives to boast of it. what are we going to do? we are merely members of the european parliament. we can merely shout in rage against this form of brutality, this form of inhumanity. my only conclusion is that we should support those democratic, civilised iranians and work with them to secure a decent, humanitarian, civilised government for the good people of iran and let the murderers be condemned.
in writing. – the sentencing of roxana saberi on 18 april 2009 for ‘spying’ was done without her having any access to a lawyer and on the basis of a trial that was neither fair nor transparent. i am not naive. the us does engage in spying but, if roxana saberi was a spy, the iranian authorities by their actions did nothing to convince anyone of that case. the bias and manipulation of the trial and the accused were a travesty of any sense of justice. i can only welcome the resolution’s demand that roxana saberi should be released immediately on the grounds that the trial was held in camera without due legal process and there was a complete failure to comply with international norms.
author. − madam president, i speak on behalf of the socialist group and as the party of european socialists’ shadow rapporteur on the economic partnership agreement (epa) with the group of southern african countries that included madagascar. in april we overwhelmingly approved that economic partnership agreement with reservations about the situation in zimbabwe. if we were debating that epa today, we would have to enter our reservations regarding madagascar. yet only 15 years ago there seems to have been the potential for madagascar to be so different. i can remember in 1993 the visit of the then newly elected president albert zafy. but, of course, by 1996 he had been impeached for corruption and the abuse of power. since then, madagascar has been troubled by unstable governments with threats of secession and impeachment punctuating a rough politics. now we have a situation – an army coup d’état – partly triggered by a plan by the former government to lease one million acres of land in the south of the country to a korean firm for intensive farming, when a substantial majority of the population live on less than one euro a day. this unconstitutional change of government is a serious setback for democratisation. we welcome the fact that the un has appealed for nearly usd 36 million worth of humanitarian aid, anticipating the food shortages that will result later this year from the current political events in madagascar, but we strongly condemn the coup d’état and all attempts to seize power by undemocratic means. we call for the immediate restoration of the legal and constitutional order in the country and ask all malagasy parties to comply fully with the provisions of the constitution. we want to see the suspension of the national assembly and senate lifted and urge that the mandates and immunities of parliamentarians be respected. but this is only going to happen if the international community can work together to step up its efforts and exercise pressure to end the political violence and the political impasse in that country.
madam president, i rise on a point of order under our rules of procedure to make a personal statement. this is my valedictory speech to the european parliament, since i was first elected a quarter of a century ago and my father was elected 30 years ago – peter beazley, a member of the european parliament for bedfordshire and north hertfordshire. i wish to thank all my fellow members of this house, particularly our president, hans-gert pöttering, with whom i had the honour of securing british conservative membership of the group of the european people’s party. i wish to recall the service of lord plumb – henry plumb – as president of this parliament, of british commissioners of all parties – roy jenkins (president), arthur cockfield, chris patton, prime minister ted heath and winston churchill – all true europeans. the leader of my party, mr david cameron, has made a serious mistake. he is in error: he thinks that by becoming anti-european in the house of commons this will secure him the premiership of my country. i, as a british conservative, reserve the right to object – that is my final word. there are british tories, socialists, liberals. we are europeans. we will stand with our partners and our allies and, if my party leader seeks to rip up 30 years of work by british tory pro-europeans, he is wrong! (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation.)
author. − madam president, concerning the next vote, on ‘venezuela: the case of manuel rosales’, the socialist group, of course, has withdrawn its signature from the compromise resolution. we have not taken part in the debate and we will not take part in the vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i congratulate you on your presidency and in particular welcome the fact that in your remarks you have referred to history – and others have referred to it as well. you certainly seem to be someone who will value the freedoms which this house wishes to have: the freedom of expression, but also the freedoms of looking ahead, of change and reform in europe, and that this house must change and reform with europe. the fact that you have a history of which you are proud, and rightfully so, from 1980 in solidarność and onwards, where you brought poland into nato and then started the negotiations for membership of the european union, you are someone who can embrace the changes that europe needs now. we welcome you. we will do our very best to help you in the job that you have taken on. (applause)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate you on being elected although i feel that this morning it has been more like a papal inauguration. if this parliament were a proper parliament, it would actually select members to sit in the chair on ability and not have the usual big group stitch-ups. that is rather a shame. i think the signs for change here are not very good. just yesterday we had armed eurocorps soldiers carrying the european flag round the courtyard outside, a sort of european union version of trooping the colour. we had an orchestra, we had the anthem, we had a choir; we started today, did we not, with the anthem. this is the same flag and anthem that you said had been dropped after the french and dutch very sensibly said ‘no’ to the dreaded eu constitution. you are not even pretending any more. you are pushing ahead with all the symbols of statehood and trying at the same time to lie and cheat to the irish by giving them a series of guarantees that are not worth the paper that they are written on. well, i can tell you that many of us in this europe of freedom and democracy group will do all we can to help the ‘no’ side in that irish referendum. (heckling)the future of european democracy rests very heavily on irish shoulders. mr president, you fought against the soviet union. you fought for democracy. you fought for national self-determination. if you continue to ignore the democratic voice of countries like france, the netherlands and ireland, then you will turn the european union back into that very union that you fought so hard against. listen to the people, please. (mixed reactions)
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to welcome you to the beginning of your five-year term. the czech presidency is over, the new european parliament is about to begin. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your election, on the fact that the voters in your countries have given you the confidence to represent them in this important european body. i congratulate jerzy buzek on his election as president of the european parliament, as well as all the vice-presidents elected yesterday, and i wish you all much success in your responsible work and the fulfilment of all the ideas with which you started your work in the european parliament. the czech republic shall be accountable for its six-month presidency of the european council to a parliament other than the one from which it took over this task. of course, this does not change our own assessment of the presidency. on the contrary, i see it as a confirmation of the continuity of european policy. as well as the fact that the new swedish presidency will continue to fulfil the two main tasks that have occupied us: tackling the impact of the global economic crisis and continuing on energy and energy security issues. the first half of this year will go down in the history of the european union as a period of hardship arising from the complex economic and political situation. some of these tests we've been expecting. in particular, the ongoing and already fully manifesting economic crisis or the need to complete the institutional reform of the union. others came unexpectedly, some very unexpectedly. the conflict in gaza, the crisis over russian gas supplies in the first hours of the czech presidency. our ability to preside over the presidency was then, of course, put to the test by events on the domestic political scene, when we changed the government in the czech republic for two thirds of the presidency. unlike many, i don't think the government crisis in the czech republic would seriously damage the european union as a whole, although i agree that the fall of the government was not a happy one. however, i am convinced that we have managed the administration of our presidency without any setbacks and that we have been able to fulfil our priorities, the planned tasks arising from the european union's agenda and to address unexpected current challenges continuously and with full commitment for six months. it was also because all the expert teams in the czech republic continued to work with full commitment, loyalty and 100% professionalism. and also by the fact that after the change of government, the czech presidency received the full support of the european commission. i personally felt this support from its president, josé manuel barroso, and i felt strong support at the time - and i would like to make a personal statement here - from the representatives of the member states. it was a great boost for the czech government and for me personally. i'm telling you in advance, i'm not going to get into any philosophical or political debate here. i do not want to compare the political dimension and weight of the leadership of the european union by large or small countries, old or new, nor the advantages or disadvantages of political or bureaucratic government in the presidency. i leave that to others, and i also believe that good and unbiased analysis shows a distance when emotions or short-term interests are no longer involved. i won't use big words or pathos in the next one. i prefer to focus on the hard facts, possibly with the support of statistics, because statistics is my life's profession, maybe even my passion. or what the first president of the czechoslovak republic, tomáš garrigue masaryk, called the "little daily chores". as you know, the czech republic has expressed its main presidency priorities as three 'e's: economy, energy and the european union in the world. the circumstances, i think, have shown that these issues are very topical, valid and far from limited to the first half of 2009. these are areas which will require the greatest possible common effort in the future if the union is to survive and be able to serve its citizens, even in times of instability, and this is where it is particularly useful. these are priorities that test the viability of the idea of integration, that demonstrate in practice how committed we are to the values that gave rise to the community and that define europe as a common area of freedom, security and prosperity. we have chosen the slogan 'a europe without barriers' as a symbol of this effort. the economic crisis has tested our loyalty to the idea of integration and has given the czech presidency's motto even more urgency. the results of the many negotiations over the past six months and the conclusions of the european councils prove that the 27 have certainly passed the test. under the czech presidency, we were able to reject protectionism and agree on a common and coordinated approach to dealing with the impact of the crisis both within the union as a whole and on the international stage. we also persevered in the task that many did not believe in us, in the matter of institutional reform. the czech republic itself successfully completed the ratification of the lisbon treaty in both chambers of parliament. that was a clear and unquestionable expression of political will. this opened up the possibility of a credible solution to the irish guarantee issue. and i am convinced that the safeguards we agreed at the june european council give ireland a good chance of successfully completing the ratification process of the treaty, so that it can enter into force by the end of 2009. the czech presidency also took seriously the task of electing this new european parliament, namely to start the process of appointing the commission for the next term of office, 2009-2014. the june european council managed to reach a unanimous political consensus on josé manuel barroso as the candidate for president of the next commission. the delegation of the czech and subsequent swedish presidencies to negotiate with the european parliament is a prerequisite for maintaining institutional continuity. overall, the czech presidency has achieved a number of concrete results or visible progress in all three priority areas. in the legislative field, and mainly thanks to close cooperation with the member states and the eu institutions, in particular the european parliament, more than 80 specific measures were successfully completed. a number of important achievements were also made in the non-legislative field, including the handling of the foreign policy and energy crises at the beginning of the year, the rejection of protectionist tendencies, decisive measures to support the european economy and steps towards diversifying energy supplies and climate protection, and the outcome of negotiations with the european union's key partners. on the individual priorities: the most important task in the economic field was to face the negative effects of the global crisis and to continue the implementation of the european economic recovery plan as the main instrument for returning to economic prosperity. we have also survived the measures taken to stabilise the banking sector. we took effective measures. member states have provided potential support to banks in excess of 30% of the european union's gdp through guarantees and recapitalisation. the positive message from the spring european council was the compromise reached on a €5 billion package for energy projects, broadband internet and measures related to the verification of the functioning of the common agricultural policy. the agreement on the contribution of the european union member states to the increase in the resources of the international monetary fund in the form of a loan of up to eur 75 billion was of key importance for addressing the global economic crisis. the european union, under the czech presidency and with the strong support of the european commission, made a significant contribution to the high-quality preparation and successful outcome of the g20 london summit, where an agreement was reached to substantially increase the resources of the international monetary fund and those of other international institutions to combat the effects of the global economic recession. the european union thus gained a strong position at this summit, also thanks to the joint conclusions adopted at the spring european council. it confirmed her ambition to be a strong global player. as i have mentioned, all the measures taken to combat the crisis during the czech presidency were framed by a common and unequivocal rejection of protectionism. in the area of legislative measures, the czech presidency managed to reach agreement on the possibility of applying reduced vat rates to locally supplied services with a high labour input in the context of the recovery plan. this agreement makes a significant contribution to maintaining employment in the most vulnerable sectors of the economy and should help smes in particular. changes in financial market regulation and supervision are a separate chapter in the fight against the current financial crisis. during the czech presidency, we have made great progress towards restoring confidence. we have completed all the key legislative proposals that the presidency has set as its objective. these include, in particular, the solvency ii directive for the insurance sector, the cra regulation and others. in the debate on regulation and financial market supervision, which was not a simple debate, agreement was reached on the basic elements of the reform, which should ensure stability at both the national and the individual financial institutions level, and on its principles. the june european council confirmed the commission's guideline. the support expressed for its plans should result in concrete legislative proposals to be prepared and adopted in the autumn of this year. energy, the second priority of the czech presidency. it has been put to the test in the first days of the czech presidency and has shown that it is not good to solve the problems of energy crises in an ad hoc way every time a crisis knocks on the door once every six months or at another time, but that we must take systemic measures in the european union to make the european union energy resilient and secure. under our presidency, we have taken steps to strengthen energy security, focusing on activities leading to deeper diversification of energy sources and transport routes through the so-called southern corridor. the energy efficiency support provided by the revision of the european regional development fund regulation also makes a significant contribution to energy security. this will allow for the financing of investments in energy efficiency and the use of renewable resources in residential buildings. this is a step towards a swedish presidency which has energy efficiency as one of its main priorities. again, this shows the necessary continuity of work across the european union. last but not least, the march and june councils fully confirmed that it is not good to give up on its ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and on the financing of mitigation and adaptation measures in developing countries. we have also set clear priorities and targets to be met before the un climate change conference in copenhagen in december this year, so that the european union can defend its position as a leader in climate protection. the third priority of the czech presidency, if you want to be the third, was the european union in the world, and it fully demonstrates and confirms how important the ability to formulate and promote a common foreign policy is for the european union. this was fully confirmed during the czech presidency. while the european union was successful in tackling the gas crisis through its unity, the second crisis at the beginning of the year, the gaza crisis, showed once again that if the union is to be a truly global player, it must learn to speak with one voice. both crises took place under the same presidency, which shows that it is not so much who is leading the european union as it is the agreement of the 27 that matters. the czech presidency has succeeded in launching the eastern partnership project, which is the continuation of the neighbourhood policy, this time in an eastern direction. the main foreign priority of the czech presidency was to continue the enlargement process. the european perspective of the western balkan countries was particularly discussed. given the situation in the region, the bureau had limited room for manoeuvre. however, despite the suspension of accession talks with croatia, progress has been made in the visa liberalisation process. i gave a factual and brief overview of the implementation of the czech presidency's priorities. more detailed information is of course available to you, as i am to you, and i will be happy to answer any questions or comments you may have.
president of the commission. - mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first plenary session of a newly elected european parliament is a unique political moment. it opens a legislature which will affect the daily lives of hundreds of millions of european citizens and the fate of an entire continent. i would like to congratulate all the members who have just been elected. your presence in this chamber is the result of the largest exercise of transnational democracy ever organized in the world. i wish you every success in your mandate. the challenges facing europe and those it will have to meet in the coming years are immense. firstly, there is the economic and financial crisis, which requires the continuation of the systematic coordinated action we have begun. there is the social cost of this crisis, which is the top of our priorities. there is the fight against climate change and the transition to a green and sustainable economy, which indicates the political horizon to be reached. all these challenges have also marked the czech presidency which has just ended. i would like to congratulate prime minister fischer and his predecessor, mirek topolánek, on the results achieved in a particularly difficult phase. i thank them and their entire team for the excellent cooperation, despite internal political difficulties. i would also like to stress the political significance of this czech presidency. for the first time, a country which was a member of the warsaw pact a few years ago has taken the lead in our european project of freedom and solidarity. this is a very important thing, and it shows how far we have come in our europe. during the czech presidency we were able to achieve impressive concrete results: 54 cases were adopted under codecision. i would like to mention in particular the agreement on a wide range of measures on financial market regulation and the five billion under the european recovery plan, and you all know very well how much we, the commission and parliament, had to fight to get there. i would also mention the revision of the globalisation adjustment fund. i welcome the deepening of the internal energy market and the internal transport market. in all these areas, these were ambitious proposals from the commission, supported by this parliament. i welcome the unanimous support of the last european council for the commission's proposed road map for financial market supervision. we now have an ambitious consensus that no one could have hoped for a few months ago when i convened a group of high-level experts under the chairmanship of mr de larosière. this allows us to be at the forefront of reforming the international financial system. it was in this spirit that we were present at the g20 in london, which led to very important decisions. beyond legislative activity, the czech presidency has also been able to tackle political challenges, some of which are extremely sensitive and even serious. we have had to deal with the gas crisis between ukraine and russia, which has again highlighted the need for europe to strengthen its energy security. in the last six months, we have made a lot of progress, for example developing the baltic region interconnection plan. the day before yesterday i attended the signing ceremony of the nabucco project between turkey and four of our member states (austria, hungary, bulgaria and romania) in the presence of many countries from which we want to import gas in the future. this is a genuine european project and i am proud that the commission has been able to play a facilitating role in it, which has been recognised as essential for all the participants. mr president, during the czech presidency there were also very important developments concerning the lisbon treaty. the last european council agreed the necessary guarantees that allow the irish government to call a second referendum, fully reassured that the concerns expressed by the irish people have been addressed satisfactorily. let us not forget that it was also during the czech presidency that the czech senate finalised parliamentary ratification, bringing the total number of member states that have completed the parliamentary approval process to 26. the czech presidency has now passed the baton to the swedish presidency, but the challenges europe faces continue and go well beyond the scope of a single presidency. the european project has always been a long-term one. we make progress when we work as a team. like a team, every member is vital to success: the council, the commission and the parliament all have an important role to play in meeting our common european ambitions at the service of europe's citizens. the europe we must continue to build together is a strong europe, an open europe, a europe of solidarity. it is a europe that offers maximum opportunities to its citizens; a europe that builds on its continental dimension and draws full benefit from the potential of its internal market, so crucial for consumers and for small and medium-sized companies; a europe of knowledge and innovation; a europe that respects the environment and ensures its energy security; a europe that reaches out to other global actors in a spirit of partnership in order to tackle shared challenges together. in this time of global crisis, we need a strong europe more than ever before and a strong europe means a united europe ready to seize and shape its destiny. let us work together parliament, council, commission to show that the expectations of europe's citizens are safe in our hands; that their desire for freedom, justice and solidarity will not be ignored. (applause) i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the czech presidency has followed a depressingly familiar pattern: continuity, more of the same, the continuing obsession with climate change and the continuing drive to have new legislation. you said that under this presidency legislation in 18 new areas had been worked on and you seem to be proud of that. i would have thought it is about time we took a couple of steps back and said that what we have in the european union is an over-regulated model that is serving us very badly during the depths of a recession. and yet more status quo. you supported the idea of shooing in mr barroso without there being any sort of proper contest, but it is on the lisbon treaty that i was most interested. you ratified the treaty through your own parliamentary chambers, without of course the thought of giving the people in your own country a referendum to express their opinion. but it is when it comes to ireland that i really get interested. you said that you wanted there to be a credible policy for ireland with their second referendum, and so you produced these guarantees, and here they are – guarantees on the right to life, on taxation, on security and defence. this document has no legal force whatsoever. it is not worth the paper that it is written on. you are the author of a disgraceful attempt to con the irish into voting for this lisbon treaty in their forthcoming referendum. of course you have been supported by mr barroso on that. he never respects the result of democratic referendums whether they are in france, the netherlands or ireland. he says we must ignore them, we must continue. it is all about power. it is all about him and the eu institutions getting more power at the expense of the member states. i hope the irish tell you all where to go in the second referendum on 2 october – and they just might! (mixed reactions)however, i do not wish to be mean-spirited, because there was one wonderful, bright, uplifting moment during the czech presidency, a moment when all of us that believe in nation states, that believe in democracy, that believe genuinely in the rule of law could come into this chamber and feel for the first time in my experience proud of the fact that we were part of this european parliament. i am of course referring to the visit of václav klaus. what a wonderful speech that was: coming into this chamber and telling a few home truths and pointing out that european parliamentarians and leaders are not listening to the peoples of europe – at which 200 of you got up and walked out of the room. so at least for václav klaus we thank you very much for the last six months. (applause)
president of the commission. − madam president, i should just like to put a question. i am not criticising, but is it allowed to have flags in the chamber? (objections. mr farage held up a union flag.) because, if it is allowed, i should just like to put the european flag here today, if i may do so. (mr barroso placed a european flag on his desk. applause.)
the president-in-office of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a very brief response from the council and the former czech presidency. firstly, a personal note: to be confronted with the atmosphere of a parliament, whether national or european, is always a great education for a person who is essentially professional and partly strongly academic. it is a lesson in how different ideas can be this time about the pace of european integration, its intensity, the nature of the european union. all of this simply reflects a very wide range of your views and i think that this is true democracy, that it belongs to it, and that is why i thank you for your expressed views and, finally, for the critical suggestions you have put forward. as for mr kose's speech, i think that his speech, which i do not wish to comment on in detail, reflects the importance of having come up with the motto 'europe without barriers' and i hope that the european union will continue to be able to implement it well. i am deeply convinced that the measures taken to mitigate the effects of the very acute economic and financial crisis were adequate and reasonable at the time they were adopted. there was talk of criticism of the pace of financial market regulation. we took the fundamental steps to do this, we agreed on them after a very difficult, difficult and very controversial debate, and we did not do the fine-tuning until the european council in june, with a result that perhaps not everyone was happy with, because they think the world is over-regulated. however, we are ready for the commission to come forward with proposals for a legislative solution for financial market regulation and banking supervision in the european format in early autumn. the fact that there has been no protectionist talk is, i repeat, essential and very important, as is the fact that we have been able to agree on the application of the principles of solidarity, particularly to some of the countries where the economy is experiencing the greatest problems. i will convey the honour of the honourable member to mr klaus this evening when i have the opportunity to meet him. otherwise, of course, the ratification of the treaty of lisbon in the czech republic is carried out in full compliance with the constitutional order of the czech republic. the treaty has been ratified by both houses of parliament, we are waiting for the signature of the president of the republic. i hope you finally decided right. the fact that the czech republic has not accepted a referendum as a way of ratifying the treaty is a fully internal matter of the czech republic and is fully compatible and in line with the constitution of the czech republic. so many detours to the home corners. i thank you for your appreciation of the fact that we have succeeded in achieving continuity in the czech presidency, which i have personally considered a great challenge for my cabinet and a personal challenge. it was a test for the new cabinet, for all the ministers and for all the expert teams, and everyone - as i said in my speech and in the appraisal of some members - passed this test. i have set aside my third part of the presidency as a personal task and i am glad that the czech presidency has managed to complete it with honour.
a uachtaráin, vótáil líon treascrach na ndaoine in aghaidh chonradh liospóin anuraidh, toisc gur creideadh gur féidir eoraip níos fearr a bhaint amach: eoraip atá daonlathach agus freagrach; eoraip a chuireann cearta oibrithe chun cinn, a chosnaíonn seirbhísí poiblí agus a iarrann ról dearfach sa domhan mór. deirtear linn gur aontaigh an chomhairle eorpach pacáiste ráthaíochtaí a bhfuil ceangal dlí ag gabháil leo a fhreagraíonn d’imnithe mhuintir na héireann. ach níl sa mhéid atá foilsithe ach soiléiriú ar chonradh liospóin. ní athraíonn sin, ar dhóigh ar bith, an t-ábhar nó an tsubstaint. nuair a chaithfimid vóta ar an ábhar seo i ndeireadh fómhair, beimid ag vótáil ar an chonradh ceannann céanna a diúltaíodh anuraidh – gan aon leasú, gan aon ábhar breise, gan aon scriosadh. an conradh liospóin ceannann céanna a dhiúltaigh 53% de na vótóirí. tá conradh nua de dhíth orainn d’aimsir nua.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the swedish presidency for prioritising economic challenges. whilst we have economic uncertainty, our ability to face any of our other challenges is obviously diminished. you are right to prioritise the need to restore public finances: the extraordinarily high levels of public debt pose great and long-term threats that, unless we face up to them now, may be with us for many decades. but restoring health to financial institutions is also key to regaining the confidence of consumers and returning economic growth, let alone taxpayers’ money. in your priorities you discuss the importance of the supervisory framework. i would add that regulatory clarity is vital. these industries are, as we all know, global industries. the capital, the talent and the individual enterprises are highly fluid. they need workable and defined legislative timetables, prioritisation of legislation and proper consultation. i welcome your commitment to work alongside the g20, because if we get out of step and go unilateral in the eu we risk not only putting borrowers and investors at a competitive disadvantage but also causing industries to relocate outside... (the president cut off the speaker.)
i scríbhinn. – cuirim fáilte roimh rún na huachtaránachta sualannaí fócasú ar cheisteanna beartais in áit ceisteanna bunreachtúla le linn na huachtaránachta. ach chinn an chomhairle neamhaird a dhéanamh de thoil mhuintir na héireann a cuireadh in iúl go daonlathach, agus chinn siad iarracht a dhéanamh conradh liospóin a bhrú tríd. ar an drochuair, is é an creatlach beartais atáthar sa tóir air ná an clár oibre teipthe céanna de dhírialú agus léirscaoileadh. ní hé seo an aisfhreagairt oiriúnach don ghéarchéim eacnamaíoch. a mhalairt ar fad atá fíor, is leanúint é ar na beartais chéanna a thug isteach an ghéarchéim, agus is iad na beartais chéanna seo atá á ndaingniú tuilleadh i gconradh liospóin. deirtear linn gur gá dúinn conradh liospóin a bheith againn toisc go bhfuil sé á chur le chéile le blianta fada. ach dréachtaíodh agus aontaíodh conradh liospóin roimh an ghéarchéim eacnamaíoch, bunaithe ar bheartais a chuir an lasair sa bharrach. is ábhar tubaiste é brú chun tosaigh na seanbheartas siúd anois, lena ndéanfar an ghéarchéim a mhéadú. tá gá le beartais nua d’aimsir nua. tá gá le conradh nua d'aimsir nua. maidir le hathrú aeráide, tá sé tábhachtach go ndéanann uachtaránacht shualannach an ae a dícheall chun margadh láidir a bhaint amach i gcóbanhávan.
in writing. – the incoming swedish presidency has many challenges but the greatest is the need to ensure that the eu respects the sovereignty of the member states and does not ride roughshod over the democratic rights of the peoples of europe. far too often the concerns and interests of our peoples are ignored in the headlong rush to advance the federalist agenda exemplified in the lisbon treaty. looking to changes ahead, the preparations for the reform of the common agricultural policy in 2013 will be an issue during this presidency. the voice of areas heavily dependent on farming, like northern ireland, must be heard during those discussions and in the debate on reform of fisheries policy. we have a great duty to help and protect our constituents at this time of great financial turbulence. the eu must not put further obstacles in the way of economic growth and stability.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, whatever people feel about the outcome of the iranian elections, there is no doubt that tens – hundreds – of people have been injured, tens of people have been killed in the protests that have taken place since the elections in that country, and thousands of people appear to have been detained as political prisoners. this entire chamber should therefore have no hesitation in condemning those abuses of human rights, as it should condemn the obstructions to free journalism that have taken place since the elections. we should also, as mr saryusz-wolski mentioned concerning the meeting of the committee on foreign affairs last week, recognise that one of the best ways of determining a free and fair election is to invite election monitors to observe the process, and this european union has got a fine record of doing that. we should note in this chamber today that the commission on our behalf did not have the confidence that they could do an independent, fair and objective job and therefore we have proper reason to say that we have no confidence in the election results. our hearts go out to the iranians who have been injured, detained or had their human rights abused. our thoughts are foremost with them, but i also ask this chamber not to forget the iranian who was an employee of the british embassy. he has been detained and is charged in a completely unjustified way with fomenting the protests. our hearts go out too to the french student who was detained by the iranian authorities. we should praise our colleagues in the swedish presidency who have stood by those countries and who have ensured concerted action by the european union in response and ask them to continue it. finally, i am ashamed that in this debate the british national party will speak for the first time, with an mep who last friday described islam as ‘a cancer that should be removed from europe by chemotherapy’. that does not represent british people’s views; that is not europe’s attitude towards islam. we should stand up against that as we stand up against unfairness internationally.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, while we sit here debating the recent uprising in iran, do we realise that over 50 of the student leaders, the protestors who were arrested, have been taken out and hanged by the iranian authorities, that over 200 people were killed on the streets, including neda, who has become an international and very potent symbol of the brutality of that fascist regime against the people of iran? and, while we continue to enjoy our place as the biggest trading partner with the iranian government, do we seriously think that money is more important than lives? why are we not prepared to put tougher sanctions in place? why do we not, as a parliament, scrap our delegation for relations with iran, which in any case in the last five years became nothing more than a compliant mouthpiece of the iranian embassy in brussels and brought shame on the eu institutions? scrap it and let us start talking tough with the iranian authorities. it is the only language they understand.
mr president, last year i served as a monitor at commemorations for the 1956 revolution in budapest. i can confirm that dr morvai is right to criticise those who fret about iran while ignoring human rights abuses here in europe. i trust that no ecr group members here will be hypocritical enough to condemn iran for the use of violence in elections when david cameron is among the sponsors of unite against fascism, an organisation of far-left criminals which routinely deploys intimidation and violence against nationalist dissidents in britain. the same is true of five current labour, lib dem and tory meps, marked with the shame of supporting the use of british taxpayers’ money to support their own militia, which breaks up opposition meetings and attacks their opponents with bricks, darts and claw hammers. but my main point is this: however well meaning, and even justified, criticisms of iran made here may be, they will be exploited as war propaganda by the powerful vested interests that stand to gain from a military attack on that country. neocons, oil companies, construction corporations and the wahabi mullahs of saudi arabia all want to see the sovereign state of iran destroyed by an aggressive war. not even european liberals are naive enough to fall for lies about weapons of mass destruction again, so human rights are being drafted in as a new casus belli. do not add the voice of this place to the warmongers’ chorus for a third illegal and counterproductive attack by the west on the muslim world. or, if you must, do not leave the war – which hypocritical rhetoric will help to justify and unleash – to the usual brave british cannon fodder: 18-year-old boys from the mersey and the thames and the tyne. instead, send your own sons to come home in boxes or without their legs, their arms and their sanity – or mind your own business.
mr president, the appalling iranian theocratic dictatorship is already guilty of many crimes against its own people: from hanging baha’is to hanging homosexuals and now apparently hanging 50 innocent protestors. so we should hardly be surprised by the mere stealing of an election through wholesale electoral fraud. i believe this crack in the regime and the courage of its protesting youth – whom i salute – will eventually bring the whole rotten government down. mr howitt recently, in another meeting, suggested that we should have sent eu electoral observers from this house to confirm whether fraud had actually taken place. no, we must never legitimise any sham election which restricts candidates on the basis of their religious purity and conducts its count behind closed doors.
mr president, this is just to put the record straight, as my name was cited by my colleague, mr tannock. i did not call for eu observers last week and, indeed, earlier in the debate i was very clear in saying that, should the circumstances have justified it, the european union would have been able to send an observer mission to the iranian elections. however, it was precisely because the commission did not have the confidence to do this that causes us proper, justified and objective concerns about the conduct of those elections. i am sorry that mr tannock was not in the chamber to hear that earlier in the debate, and i hope that i have been able to put the record straight.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this house has long been critical of the people’s republic of china for its treatment of ethnic minorities. the uighurs of xinjiang province have suffered more than most, particularly since the occupation of east turkestan by the people’s republic of china in 1949. the people’s republic claims that it does not seek territorial expansion. history shows that in east turkestan, tibet and taiwan, under communist rule it has sought to rule and to subjugate. that is the reason why the european union must not lift the arms embargo on china. for a european prime minister to refer to the reaction to the latest unrest as ‘genocide’ is perhaps an exaggeration, but for the people’s republic to complain of interference in internal affairs betrays a world view which is touchingly antiquated. if the contours of the world economy are drawn in the computer campuses of west coast america, in the call centres of india, in the factories of china, if major decisions can be communicated from beijing to brussels in a nanosecond, we have become truly one global community, and there is no room in this community for repression or subjugation on the basis of race or religion or ethnicity; no room for islamophobia or for anti-semitism or any other kind of hatred. china’s problems stem in this instance from the greying of the middle kingdom. they need more young people to work elsewhere, similar to the problems we face here in the european union. i saw this when i visited urumqi four years ago. but the people’s republic will find that it needs policies to protect economic migrants, policies to recognise the legitimate demands of ethnic minorities, just as we do. here, mr bildt, is a role for the european union. we know that as democracies mature, so they become more willing to allow people self-government and self-determination. indeed, the biggest problems in europe are found in the younger democracies, like spain and hungary. we need to help the chinese people, who are quite capable of living in democracy – as taiwan and hong kong show – to match their growing economic strength with a growing political maturity in developing democracy and help them develop the policies to match, policies like erasmus mundus, policies of which the commissioner has spoken to increase people-to-people exchange. i am convinced that the european union can play an important role in working with china to these ends.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, for centuries the uighurs have eked out a perilous living in an inhospitable part of a vast country. most of them are peaceful followers of islam. however, sadly some of the local population in recent years have become increasingly radicalised by terrorists in league with al-qaida. china has never been tolerant of dissent or its own minorities, but i do share its concern about the threat of uighur islamist terrorism. i actually helped convince the council to ban the uighur east turkestan liberation front three years ago. china’s authoritarianism and han dominance must not be used as an excuse by uighur terrorists, some of whom are found as far afield as guantánamo bay, to spread fear and violence, as most victims of the recent violence were in fact han chinese. many of us are naturally concerned about human rights in china and i am also committed as a friend of taiwan. however, the eu remains wedded to a one-china policy and, given that the eu officially considers taiwan and tibet part of the people’s republic of china, we should certainly not support in any way the secession of xinjiang province. one interesting aspect of this issue is whether this controversy will cause china’s muslim partners in africa like sudan to reassess their links to the country. finally, i note that turkey’s prime minister erdogan has labelled this violence as a genocide: a bit rich coming from him when his own country fails to recognise the armenian genocide. his efforts to appeal to pan-turkic nationalism are also hypocritical, given turkey’s treatment of its own minorities and in particular the kurds in eastern turkey.
mr president, may i congratulate mr bildt on a very balanced speech just now. i believe in the borders of the nation state as recognised by the united nations and so oppose separatist-related violence everywhere in the world, be it in kashmir, indonesia, sri lanka, where i was born, northern ireland, where i got bombed, spain or even in china. i regret that in china, a country very important for the eu, some 1 680 people have been injured and 184 killed. the problem started in a toy factory in guangdong and spread. among those killed in the riots in urumqi were 137 han chinese and 46 uighur chinese. this is deplorable. we must condemn it. if these acts were encouraged and perpetrated by outside forces, particularly separatist fundamentalist forces, then they should be indicted in the international criminal court. if they were home-grown, then it is a matter for the police in china and we must support them. we live in a small world. we must live together. the eu is a clear example of this. supporting separatism anywhere in the world is against the spirit of the eu. we cannot work to unite europe at home and encourage the break-up of china abroad. that is the road to chaos and conflict.
mr president, it would be a great mistake to place china in the same category in this debate today as we discussed iran. the eu enjoys a very good relationship with china and i think we have to take care that our discussions on the recent events in urumqi are accurate and based on fact. the incident that took place on 5 july involved a premeditated attack on the han chinese population of that city by the uighurs. as we know, certain militants among the uighur population of xinjiang are islamic fundamentalists who demand a separate state. they mounted a violent attack that led to the deaths of 137 han chinese. so the vast majority of those killed were han chinese. the chinese government quite properly deployed police and military personnel to quell the violence and stop the retaliatory attacks by the han population on the uighurs. what else would anyone expect them to do? so let us base our criticism on facts and not take unfair records against the chinese.
mr president, as a new member of this parliament, i believe that one of the major issues facing farmers in wales and the rest of the uk is the proposed electronic identification of sheep, which will come into effect on 1 january 2010. the fact is that the scanning equipment to be used is not accurate. my understanding is that it is only 79% accurate, which will cause major problems for farmers throughout the uk. i urge the commission to rethink this policy and only bring it in on a voluntary basis. my fear is that many farmers will be penalised due to inaccurate equipment and that their single farm payments will be reduced. in the worst case scenarios the reduction could be 100%. the concessions that have already been made are helpful but are not enough. i find it quite astonishing that the commission wants to bring in electronic identification (eid) with such huge flaws in the equipment. the sensible way forward would be for eid to be introduced only on a voluntary basis from next january. i urge members of this parliament to support me on this vital issue for the farming industry throughout europe.
mr president, i do not accept the validity of this parliament or any other eu institution to make laws for the united kingdom. my electors have sent me here to tell you that they do not want gbp 45 million of their money every single day spent in the european union. we want that money spent in the uk on our schools, on our hospitals and our infrastructure, not wasted on corruption with your accounts in auditing for 14 years. simply, i have this message from the people who elected me to the commission: go back to your bureaucracy and prepare for the uk’s withdrawal from the corrupt and doomed mess that is the european union.
mr president, this parliament has united in recent times in the face of a global terrorist threat. in my constituency of northern ireland, we know the pain of terrorism. yes, we have witnessed a transformation in northern ireland in recent years, but there are still those who would seek to cause bloodshed. last week, in the latest of a series of incidents, a 600 lb bomb was planted by dissident republicans and was discovered in south armagh. had it not been discovered, multiple loss of life would have occurred. in northern ireland we have not forgotten the victims of our past and of terrorism and that is why i would ask this parliament to back the campaign for compensation from libya. libya supplied weapons to the ira; those weapons took many lives and left others destroyed. for this they must be held accountable.
mr president, on 2 october the irish will have a referendum on the lisbon treaty. the lisbon treaty is almost identical to the european constitution, which was rejected outright by the french and the dutch. the lisbon treaty has already been rejected by the irish once, but ‘no’ is always the wrong answer, as far as the european union is concerned, when it comes to further political integration. and so the irish are forced to have yet another referendum so they can deliver the only answer that is acceptable to the european union – which is ‘yes’. the european union is destroying democracy in its member states. the eu is founded on misrepresentation, deceit and lies. the british are denied a referendum by our contemptible government and political class precisely because they know that the result would be a resounding ‘no’. but whatever the result in ireland, britain will one day leave the european union and restore its national independence. i am proud to use my position of office to campaign for britain’s unconditional withdrawal from the european union.
mr president, i wish to inform parliament that last week the uk justice minister gave michael shields, my constituent, a pardon, and he was freed from prison having served four and a half years for a crime he did not commit. michael was given a pardon on the basis of evidence clearly showing that he was morally and technically innocent of the crime. he was arrested, charged and convicted of a brutal attack on martin georgiev, a bulgarian waiter, in 2005 in less than eight weeks, despite the lack of forensic evidence, a flawed identification process and a signed confession to the attack by another man, graham sankey. today i want to thank presidents borrell and pöttering and parliament’s committee on petitions for supporting michael’s campaign for justice. but this is not the end of the process, and i ask the president and the committee on petitions to continue to support michael’s campaign for justice and to intervene with the bulgarian authorities immediately to review the dossier of evidence. this is vital if we are to give every one of our citizens trust and confidence in judicial and police cooperation in europe.
mr president, six months ago the world was shocked by the death and destruction visited by israel upon gaza. now the cameras have gone away, yet the economic siege continues. less than one quarter of the materials and supplies needed by the people there are getting through the checkpoints – just 18 items in all. nothing for reconstruction, nothing for business, nothing that creates jobs or offers hope. israel is in effect keeping one and a half million people in a form of prison camp, surrounded by walls, patrolled by armed guards. mr president, i ask you to convey to the president that he should visit gaza at the earliest opportunity to judge the situation for himself. if he believes that such collective punishment cannot be acceptable, he should speak out on behalf of the innocent.
mr president, i want to raise the case of mr john zafiropoulos, who is in prison in greece. his family, who are my constituents, are convinced of his innocence. at the beginning of this year i wrote to the minister of justice in athens raising the case. i did not get a reply, so in a one-minute speech here in may in this hemicycle i raised the question. immediately after i had spoken, the greek permanent representation rushed to my office and promised me an immediate reply from the minister in person. four months later: nothing. if the greek permanent representation is listening to us now in the hemicycle, i would like to express my surprise and dismay that nothing has happened. would they please get me a reply from the minister and look at the case of mr john zafiropoulos again?
mr president, this parliament will have many important discussions, and decisions to make, on budget matters. currently we are, of course, looking at the 2010 budget, and there are still a lot of issues to be resolved before we can agree that. this parliament will also soon start discussing the new financial perspective for the period post 2013. but there is also the mid-term budget review, and it seems to me we have almost forgotten about that. we should not forget about it, because this will give us great opportunities in the future. it will give us the opportunity to look again at what our priorities are. it will give us the opportunity, for example, to put more funds into a new economic regeneration plan for europe. it will also, perhaps, give us the opportunity to put extra funding into the measures which come out of copenhagen at the end of this year. i believe that this parliament should not take its eye off the ball. this parliament should continue to press the council and the commission to make sure it looks again at that mid-term review and to give us the opportunity to put forward our priorities.
mr president, all of us with car factories in our countries or regions want to see their success, but that should not blind us to the problems and the reality of overcapacity that curbs profits and investment. i am hugely impressed by the engineering excellence i see at plants in my region – at ellesmere port and at halewood – and on that basis alone they should prosper, but i am deeply depressed by the attitude of the car industry as a whole over the 10 years that i have seen it work while i have been in this parliament. judged against the potential for environmental improvement, its record has been shameful. of course there are positive stories to be told. we see examples of innovation in our newspapers each day, but the industry as a whole fought against the introduction of catalytic converters, wildly exaggerating their cost. it made an agreement with us to reduce its co2 emissions and then reneged on it. currently it is trying to wriggle out of legal requirements that it uses air-conditioning coolants with a much lower global-warming potential than those used at present, and already it is lobbying to try and weaken the commission’s proposals on co2 emissions from vans and light commercial vehicles. huge sums of money have been put into propping up this industry. i think we, the public, deserve a bit better. we hear from the component manufacturers that the car assemblers are too low in their ambitions. what we need is for the industry now to take a new attitude, and the industry’s representatives – acea – in particular. we need the industry to recognise that it has obligations to society as a whole and that its future is inextricably linked to environmental improvement.
madam president, i believe we all share the same objective, to ensure the long-term viability and competitiveness of the eu car industry and maintain jobs in the sector. in july i wrote to commissioner verheugen and i was encouraged by receiving his commitment to ensure a level playing field in any restructuring plan for the european arm of gm. in my region, the vauxhall plant in ellesmere port is the linchpin of the local economy, employing some 2 200 direct jobs. the site has undergone radical restructuring and is considered a lean, efficient and competitive operation, as indeed is the luton site in the south-east of england. nobody wants job losses, but any decision must be based on the viability and efficiency of plants. it must be based on fairness, not favouritism, not because one member state has pledged more finance than any others. and i am pleased that commissioner kroes recognises that there is no place for political fixes, political strings or condition in awarding state aid. i urge the commission to be vigilant and to ensure that any financial support is based on state aid rules and the ability of the european operations to be commercially viable and economically fit for the future. maintaining a strong european car industry means taking a pan-european approach to maintaining vital and efficient infrastructure in all member states and all regions.
madam president, as the mep that represents luton in the east of england, i would like to join my british colleague, arlene mccarthy, in expressing our real desire to mr špidla and to the commission that they scrutinise this gm/opel deal line by line to make sure that a deal which is about a european sell-off is a good deal for europe as a whole. i would also like to appeal to him to look in particular at the issues around van production, which is the production within luton. firstly, because magna’s partner is a russian truck company, and there are fears that that company will benefit at the expense of the existing production. secondly, because it is expected that there must be a new model in that van market by 2012, and unless magna give assurances that that new model will be brought on, it does bring concerns about the future of the plant. and finally, there are concerns that the deal will not be compatible with the joint production venture between general motors and renault, which is half of the production at luton. i ask him to do everything possible to secure that production and the jobs that are associated with it at the same time.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this is my first, or maiden, speech in this parliament. as a ukip mep for the east of england, you will expect me to be a rebel and i will try not to disappoint you or my voters. we are discussing today eu trade agreements, and in particular that with south korea due to be signed this year. as we do not have much of the detail on this particular agreement, other than the fact, i believe, that two thirds of the benefits will accrue to south korea and one third to the eu, i would like to make some more general points. many people are not aware that there are over a hundred separate bilateral eu trade agreements like this one; 116 is one estimate. there are trade agreements with countries such as the usa, canada, mexico, brazil, india, china, japan and south africa. in europe, there are trade agreements with russia, ukraine, turkey and liechtenstein. there are also trade agreements with non-eu eea and efta countries such as switzerland and norway. norway’s trade agreement religiously protects both its fishing and farming, and norway is not a minnow. it is the eu’s fourth-largest import partner and sixth-largest export market. what should a trade agreement like south korea’s really contain, then? switzerland, i believe, is a strong example. there are provisions abolishing customs duties and trade quotas on industrial and agricultural products. there are provisions to allow swiss citizens the right to live and work in eu countries and for eu citizens to live and work in switzerland. there are provisions for switzerland to be part of the schengen passport-free area. the swiss can be in the european environment agency, if they wish, in the eu’s film and education programmes, and they can apply for eu research grants. there is cooperation on airlines, asylum and judicial matters. in short they have all the claimed benefits of eu membership, but without the cost. it is true that switzerland must pay chf 600 million per year for access, but the swiss government reports savings for not being a member of the eu amounting to chf 3.4 billion, a net saving of chf 2.8 billion a year. nor is switzerland an insignificant trading partner either: 80% of swiss exports go to the eu, and it is the eu’s fourth-largest trading partner. my point is that trade agreements can achieve the benefits of eu trade without the burden of high regulatory costs, loss of sovereignty and of resources. even the commission website admits ‘switzerland can develop and retain its own regulations in other areas which deviate from eu rulings. it is in its own interests, such as in financial and in labour markets.’ how britain would love to deviate in a similar way over the working time directive, temporary workers’ directive or the new fund managers’ directive! so i conclude in asking, why not britain? why cannot britain have a similar, friendly trade agreement with the eu like south korea instead of full eu membership? britain on its own is the largest single trading partner with the eu with a gbp 40 billion deficit a year. we too can have the kind of assurances the swiss enjoy. we could, and i believe we should, be an independent free trading nation once again such as norway, switzerland and even south korea.
mr president, i must say i am rather concerned about the tone of this debate. with the exception, perhaps, of daniel caspary’s contribution, it has been rather negative. i was parliament’s rapporteur on the korean free trade agreement. in advance of this debate, i looked back on what we had decided to ask for – what we asked the commission to go into these negotiations and achieve on our behalf – and i actually think the commission has achieved what we asked them to achieve. i would like to pay tribute to the chief negotiator, who i see sitting next to baroness ashton, and to baroness ashton herself, for the way they have delivered this agreement. clearly, in any free trade agreement – by definition – and in any negotiation there are winners and losers, but if you look at the global impact of this agreement there are big winners in europe and there are big winners in korea. therefore there are big winners in keeping world trade moving. at this current time, in this present crisis, anything that sends a positive signal about two units as big as korea and as big as the european union that we want to keep trade moving and we want to keep trade open has to be a good thing. i have to say that, if the european parliament and the council of ministers cannot move this agreement to a final signed agreement between korea and the eu, we might as well send a note to dg trade to stop negotiating all other free trade agreements, because, if we do not deliver on korea, forget asean, forget the gulf states, forget the whole other raft of ftas we are trying to negotiate, and, frankly, forget doha. this is an important agreement, where europe has achieved its strategic objectives. let us send a positive signal to the rest of the world that europe is open for business and that, in the teeth of this recession, we are keen to keep our markets as open as possible.
mr president, i would like to speak in support of the contention made by my colleague mr campbell bannerman. in 2006 the swiss federal government commissioned a report on all aspects of existing and possible relationships with the european union. they concluded that full membership of the eu would cost them up to six times their current bilateral arrangements. the swiss being the swiss decided that they were better off by not joining or achieving full eu membership. if that is true for the swiss, it is certainly true for the british, and, if only our government had as sensible and pragmatic a view of britain’s economy as the swiss have of switzerland’s, then we would leave, just as the swiss would not join.
mr president, you are a very tolerant chair, but it is very clear in our rules that interventions under the ‘catch the eye’ procedure have to relate to the subject under discussion. that was nothing to do with korea, and it was nothing to do with free trade agreements.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the commission’s joint eu resettlement programme certainly has noble ambitions, which aim to encourage greater cooperation between national governments regarding the resettlement of refugees and asylum seekers. however, as a british conservative, i do remain worried about its implementation. we do not want to see the continuation of problems like those we have had at sangatte in france. i think that cooperation and solidarity across the european union is of course important when discussing the burdens that nations face but we must better distinguish economic migrants from asylum seekers. they obviously have every right to seek sanctuary, but we must also have legislation that does not tie individual nations’ hands regarding who is accepted and who gets asylum. a collective approach such as the one the commission is proposing might undermine each eu nation’s ability to decide this. meanwhile, though, i think a major priority should be securing the southern borders. frontex must play a more prominent part in this regard in order to act as a strong deterrent to economic migrants wishing to make the hazardous trip across the mediterranean. we must act more strongly against the various third countries that irresponsibly encourage those activities. the commission says it will be national governments that ultimately decide the number of people they accept, and that britain and other countries will not be forced to accept large numbers of economic migrants that it cannot cope with or cannot support in these economically challenging times. that is necessary and right. countries like britain need guarantees that our asylum and immigration policy remains for us to decide and guarantees also that the eu’s approach will remain one of open cooperation and not one of compulsion.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the measures under discussion are part of the existing so-called area of justice, freedom and security, of which immigration is a part. this is about a common immigration and asylum policy, and, however much the british government may lie to the british people, we know that they intend that britain should eventually be bound by it. but a ‘one-size-fits-all’ immigration policy will not work for britain. britain is one of the most densely populated countries in the world, more densely populated, surprisingly, than india, china or japan. net immigration to britain is now running at about 230 000 people per annum, adding over a million new people to the population every five years. the population will rise from its current 61.4 million, an all-time high, to about 70 million-plus in 2031 and then spiral ever upwards. all this growth is due to immigration and births to immigrants. the uk independence party is not opposed to some immigration, but this should be strictly controlled and for the benefit of britain and not the european union or anybody else. britain does not need a common european immigration policy. what we need to do is end mass immigration now and introduce a strictly limited and controlled immigration policy. we should apply the terms of the 1951 convention on refugees, which requires them to seek sanctuary in the first designated safe country they come to – which is not a little island off the coast of europe called britain. we should end the promotion of multiculturalism, which is divisive and a recipe for conflict, and assimilate and integrate existing migrants into a common culture with respect for a common set of political and legal institutions. there should be no place in britain – and, i suggest, anywhere in europe – for sharia law.
mr president, no one underestimates the enormous difficulties of creating the balance mentioned by the chair of our committee, and of the migration pressures which face the european union and the pressures that we face in the mediterranean. yet again this summer we have been reminded of the harsh reality faced by migrants and asylum-seekers facing persecution and fleeing poverty. frontex undoubtedly plays a key role in europe’s approach to migration. as we build a more coordinated eu system for managing our external borders, the importance of frontex increases. therefore my group believes that it is crucial to get the balance right: the balance between, on the one hand, resourcing frontex – as many colleagues have mentioned – and, on the other hand, ensuring that frontex has a stronger appreciation of the humanitarian aspects of its work. for example, how can frontex help bring down the tragic number of deaths at sea, over 12 000 in the last 10 years? sea rescue operations have therefore to be included in its remit. the devil is in the detail. many of these policies need to work on the ground, and i know that parliament, commission and council are trying to do this. we must ensure that frontex does not simply become a mechanism for keeping people out of europe. those who are legitimately in need of protection must be granted access to eu territory. commissioner, you spoke about the principle of non-refoulement. it is important that you restated it. the situation for italy and libya is, of course, something which my colleagues from italy will speak more about, but this principle must not be violated by anyone or any country. we are in a situation where non-refoulement will happen even with countries which have not signed the 1951 convention. it is important that we uphold these human rights. we must not shy away from our responsibilities to provide protection to those who need it. frontex therefore needs to be part of a fair and balanced approach to migration and asylum. we must ensure that the asylum package is implemented, and we must ensure that legal migration and the protection of refugees are held in balance.
mr president, the british press, assisted to such a conclusion by paranoid and euro-sceptic meps, has scaremongered that a future commissioner for fundamental rights, which mr barroso has accepted at the proposal of the alde group, will force the uk to accept more asylum-seekers from across europe. this is not true. as vice-president barrot has confirmed, the pilot project to assist malta is voluntary and the proposed scheme to resettle unhcr-approved refugees directly from outside europe would also be non-compulsory. no element of eu policy has ever involved quotas or compulsion on national acceptance of migrants. however, what we do try and get is voluntary solidarity, and i do hope that a future fundamental rights commissioner will make a contribution to stopping migrants meeting their death in the mediterranean. ten years ago next month, the eu set the goal of a common asylum system and coordinated migration policies. despite some considerable efforts, especially by the european commission with the support of meps, we are clearly a long way from that. the top priority is to get some proper management of the flows, which are usually what are called ‘mixed flows’ of refugees and job-seeking migrants, so as to distinguish the two. this is to give confidence to the european public of proper management as well as to stop loss of life and to ensure protection for those qualifying for it. if people in frail boats are pushed back out to sea and never assessed for protection, none of those goals is achieved. i am shocked to hear from commissioner barrot that member states do not apply maritime law uniformly. such disarray is unacceptable. frontex must be properly resourced and respect human rights of individuals. those individuals must be allowed to land and be assessed for asylum status and sorted into refugees and those not qualified to stay. eu member states must, if necessary, be taken to the european court of justice for failing to do so, and the idea, as my colleague sonia alfano has said, that libya is capable of doing that job instead is completely outrageous given its gross human rights abuses. a rational european immigration policy would involve some common framework of criteria for economic migration within which member states accepting such migrants can operate under their own decisions on the numbers they take. what we need is the coordination, the common standards, the common framework and then the solidarity as well.
in writing. − we acknowledge the very real need for a bluetongue vaccine, particularly for beef and sheep farmers in the south and east of england, who, by wholesale vaccination on their own farms, have created a firewall against bluetongue that their fellow farmers in the north and west have benefited from. in order to vote for eu funding for this vaccine we are obliged (in the same vote) to vote for increased funding for eurojust and europol. these are two agencies that operate outside the boundaries acceptable to british law, severely increasing the power of the state at the expense of the liberty of the individual. it is contemptible that the eu attempts to bury such provisions in these types of reports, and then requires meps to vote on them as a whole and not individual parts. thus, we could not in good conscience support such a report, which explains our voting abstention on the subject.
in writing. − i acknowledge the very real need for a bluetongue vaccine, and deplore the refusal of the uk government to assist its farming community on this important issue. this report contained provisions related to this situation. however, this report also contained provisions totally unrelated to farming, which would have had a disastrous impact on the uk. in particular this report called for funding to eurojust and europol, agencies that operate outside of the boundaries acceptable to british law. it is contemptible that the eu attempts to bury such provisions in these types of reports, and then requires meps to vote on them as a whole and not individual parts. thus, i could not in good conscience support such a report, which explains my vote on the subject.
in writing. − i acknowledge the very real need for a bluetongue vaccine, and note the unhelpful attitude of the uk government on this important issue. this report contained provisions related to this situation. however, this report also contained provisions totally unrelated to farming, which would have had a disastrous impact on the uk. in particular this report called for funding to eurojust and europol, agencies that operate outside of the boundaries acceptable to british law. it is contemptible that the eu attempts to bury such provisions in these types of reports, and then requires meps to vote on them as a whole and not individual parts. thus, i could not in good conscience support such a report, which explains my vote on the subject.
mr president, i have always admired mr barroso as our commission president, who is an atlanticist free-marketeer, which my party strongly supports and holds dear. i am also a strong friend of portugal, so i am very happy to support josé manuel. however, i am concerned at what i read yesterday in the daily telegraph that he has agreed with the alde group to create a powerful new and intrusive human rights commissioner in his commission, straddling external and internal human rights issues. this seems to fly in the face of the centre right-led decision of this parliament to reject a new combined human rights committee and duplicates the work of the council of europe and its own human rights commissioner. please can president barroso clarify his policies and intentions here?
mr president, thank you for your speech. i believe, however, that our paths diverge considerably. i stand here before you as one who believes in a europe of cooperating nations, not a europe tied to the federalist approach of the lisbon treaty. on 2 october the irish electorate will be asked – for a second time – to vote for the lisbon treaty, a treaty cobbled together to circumvent the people’s rejection of a european constitution. i commend the electorate of the irish republic for exercising good sense in the first referendum, sense that i believe that they will show once again in the second one. i urge them to remain firm in their resolve to reject the treaty. the post-dated promises and threats have done nothing to change the fundamentals of the treaty. it remains the wrong path for europe and europe’s nations. however, i believe that that choice should also be given to my people, the british people. they were promised a referendum by the labour government, and the labour government should fulfil that promise. if not, their possible successors in the conservatives should do the same.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i should like to ask mr barroso: why the unseemly haste? why change the rules of the game? why does your re-election for five years as commission president have to take place now? well of course the answer is ireland and the lisbon treaty. the plan is to show everybody that the ship is steady, that everything is going well, that all the irish have to do is to correct their rather silly little mistake – and indeed your working document is written as if the treaty were already ratified. but there is a rather important point being missed here: you have been the boss; you have been the governor for the last five years. you have been in charge of overseeing that the constitutional treaty was pushed through. but things went wrong, did they not? the french said ‘no’ and the dutch said ‘no’, but you refused to accept these democratic results and you took part, with many members of this parliament, in the absolute deceit that is the lisbon treaty. you told us that the flag and the anthem would be dropped, but i have not seen much evidence of that. no, you rebranded it as the lisbon treaty but you could not stop the irish from voting, and the irish said ‘no’. but once again you could not accept a democratic result, oh no – the irish have to vote again! where in all of this, given that you are in charge, is the principle of democratic accountability? well, you might argue that there is not much democracy left in the european union now, but there should at least be some degree of accountability, and i would argue that, on the eve of what may well be a fourth rejection of this treaty, the one that kills it off for good, this parliament should not install you as commission president for the next five years until we have that result. if the irish people say ‘no’ for a second time, then we simply have to respect what they say, and you have to go as president of the commission. it would happen in any other walk of life, it would happen in any business, and i suggest that it really ought to happen in european politics. and what about your record? you have overseen the lisbon agenda: it was sunk without trace way before the credit crunch hit us. now you are telling us we have to have a commissioner for immigration, taking away from nation states their most basic right to decide who comes to live, work and settle in their countries. you have pushed on with your obsession with climate change, which has led to massive cost and no material benefits whatsoever. but above all it is the fact that you ignored that irish referendum, that you said the irish cannot stop this treaty: for that reason alone i simply cannot support you. but it is possible that i have got this horribly wrong. it is possible that you are the right man after all, because yesterday in the daily telegraph a poll asked: if lisbon goes through without a referendum, would you want britain to stay part of the european union? and by 43% to 26% – for the first time in over 30 years – a massive majority of britons said they want us to leave this european union if mr barroso gets his way. so maybe i got it wrong: maybe you are the right man. we will see. (applause and laughter from certain quarters)yes, he is very happy to go!
mr president, mr barroso might recall my intervention when he came before our group last week. as i said then, mr barroso, i read your political guidelines for the new commission with considerable interest and i actually found that much of the rhetoric contained in the guidelines reflects my own beliefs and political priorities. i am sure of many others on the left as well. the problem is, however, that you used pretty much the same rhetoric when you came here five years ago to look for the commission presidency then. at that time you made a number of promises in relation to social europe on renewing the social agenda for five years that have not been met. you might recall, for example, saying five years ago on services of general interest: ‘i do not exclude the possibility of a framework directive’. now five years later, as you have said again today, the eu might establish a ‘quality framework for public and social services’. we are not quite sure what that means. we do know what a framework directive means and for us that is a very important commitment that we would like you to enter into. telling us that you do not exclude the possibility of one is simply not enough this time. when we looked at your document last week we looked for specific concrete commitments, but we found virtually none. what we did find – thanks to google – is that the guidelines themselves, presented as a transformational agenda, are by and large nothing more than a recycling of existing commission texts and the existing policy agenda. three broad points on your guidelines: firstly, they simply do not address the seriousness of the severe unemployment and social crisis that we are facing and which will worsen in the months if not years to come. secondly, we think your words about a crisis exit strategy are premature. you have modified that in what you have said to us today. but what we should be talking about is an entry strategy, a strategy for positive intervention in the labour market, not just at member state level but at european level. thirdly, your transformational agenda is the agenda of the past. the crisis is calling for much bolder and more far-sighted policies than you have in mind. instead, what the number one priority of the new commission must be is the launching of a modernised and ambitious new european social agenda. i have listened to what you have said very carefully again today on the response to the laval judgment in relation to the posting of workers directive. you have said again today that an implementing regulation, without touching the directive, is the way to go. that simply will not work. the problem is in the directive itself which repeats over and over again that ‘member states “may”…’. unless the implementing regulation replaces or overtakes that directive, the problem of laval will remain. also, forgive us if we judge you on your track record. laval did not happen yesterday. what have you done in the almost two years since the laval judgment sent shock waves through the trade union movement? one final question: will you commit yourself today to doing everything possible to bring about a proper gender balance in the next college of the commission?
mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the european free alliance members in the greens/efa group. we believe in equality for all people in europe. we support independence for the nations and the regions of europe that are not currently member states in their own right but that aspire to be, and we campaign for equal rights for speakers of all languages, whether they are official eu languages or co-official languages and whether they are spoken by the majority or the minority in a member state. mr barroso, you talk in your guidelines, and you have talked again today, about the need to create a feeling of connection between the eu and its citizens, but this can never be achieved until the eu recognises the real nations and peoples, and that subsidiarity operates at all levels and not just between the eu and the member state government. if the european union is to effectively support us through the economic crisis, lead the way as it must in fighting climate change, protect public services, defend human rights and contribute to international peace and disarmament, then it needs the input of all of us, and that includes wales, scotland, catalonia, corsica, flanders and many others. across europe at this moment there are discussions, consultations and referenda taking place, and i am not talking about lisbon but about proposals for constitutional change and for greater autonomy in these countries. i regret that you have not acknowledged, recognised or addressed these current developments in your guidelines and you have not brought forward proposals for greater involvement of countries and regions which have legislative powers in eu decision-making, something which we in the efa see as crucial. i would ask you again to agree to do that.
mr president, one of the most corrosive criticisms of the eu is that it is more concerned with its own internal systems than in demonstrating leadership on global issues or acting in a way that adds value to citizens’ lives. nowhere has this tendency been more apparent than in the preposterous discussions we have been forced to endure over whether and when to appoint the president of the commission. the anniversary today of the collapse of lehman brothers is a timely reminder of the parlous state of the european economy and especially that of the uk. unemployment is on the increase wherever we look, and we are just weeks away from a crucial global summit on climate change. in these circumstances, it was absurd to seek to delay the appointment of the president of the commission beyond september. i read president barroso’s political guidelines with great interest. i warmly welcome the opportunity the ecr group had for a vigorous discussion with him on it. first, our central priority must be restarting economic growth and building long-term competitiveness. in the short term, this means less economic intervention, and resisting protectionism. then we must ensure a return to sound public finances and work to secure further market liberalisation to restore trade and business confidence and ensure there is proper investment in skills and human capital, as well as in innovation and research. the commission has a vital role to play in making sure the eu institutions do not undermine economic recovery through imposing unnecessary and excessive burdens on business. the work done by president barroso and commissioner verheugen in this area has been significant. tackling excessive regulation and promoting the ‘better regulation’ agenda – although, mr barroso, i myself would have preferred it to be called ‘deregulation’ – was an area of success of the last commission. nonetheless it is regrettable this success was not more pronounced, and more work is certainly required. we need to have a senior vice-president of the commission responsible for this area of work. i urge you, president barroso, to make such an appointment if you are elected tomorrow. on the issue of climate change, it is the case that the eu has shown leadership in international negotiations in this area and it must continue to do so. i welcome the emphasis president barroso has placed on the need to show how fighting climate change can help to modernise our economies. another area i wish to highlight is the commitment to reshape the eu budget with a root-and-branch reform. such a reform is long overdue and it should have been a binding commitment. although i, personally, and my group strongly support the renomination of the president and welcome some of the major elements, we do not see eye to eye on everything, as my friend michał kamiński has said. i have grave concerns about the commission’s reported plans in the field of immigration and asylum and, as far as the uk is concerned, retention of national control over our borders continues to be essential. as president barroso knows from our discussions, there are problems with the commission proposals in the field of financial supervision. there is a real risk that key financial businesses will relocate outside the eu to the benefit of no one other than our competitors. lastly, there have been references throughout the debate to the lisbon treaty. i do not hide the fact, and confine myself to pointing out once again, that the eu has continued to function perfectly well without the lisbon treaty in the past three or four years. there is no reason why this could not continue to be the case. finally, i quote a paragraph towards the end of president barroso’s manifesto. he said: ‘the eu works best when it focuses on its core business. i want to concentrate our limited resources on where we can have most effect and where we can bring most added value.’ in other words, i think that means that the eu might do less, but it must do it better. president barroso, if these were to be your watchwords in the next five years, it would be an excellent basis for progress, but in any event you do deserve a resounding vote of support from us tomorrow.
mr president, president barroso espouses a europe of ambition. the eu has certainly achieved that: 27 states in 50 years, and the lisbon treaty – if ratified by ireland – will mark the death of their national sovereignty and the launchpad for the european union takeover. but we in ukip reject mr barroso’s plan for european integration because we know that individual member states are not an irrelevance. national sovereignty is the bedrock of our values and the cornerstone of the united kingdom’s democracy. in the eu, human rights – whether individual or collective – take second place to solidarity for europeans. the two are directly incompatible, yet president barroso puts them together at the centre of his vision of the eu for the next five years, with solidarity as the cornerstone for european society. we in ukip prefer sovereignty to solidarity. when member states’ citizens express views in national referendums, the result should be final, respecting their rights to their opinions, but the eu’s version of citizens’ rights is to make them vote and vote again in national referendums until they can cave in to the pressure and vote ‘yes’. this is how the maastricht treaty and the nice treaty were achieved, and now the eu is following the same tactic and forcing ireland to vote again on the lisbon treaty when it has already rejected it, as did france and the netherlands. what kind of rights are these, when they are rejected out of hand in the name of solidarity? ukip places sovereignty and the citizen’s rights above solidarity. we reject the lisbon treaty and president barroso’s vision of it.
mr president, president barroso should be congratulated for his staunch support for the treaty change agenda throughout his previous term. i think he should also be thanked for publishing a good programme of stability plus necessary proposals for improvement in the challenging policy sectors that we all agree upon. but i have to say that, as gdp sinks and as our spending increases, we are facing, across the period to 2014, the prospect of a fresh budgetary crisis. and at that time i do trust that president barroso will be firmly on the side of parliament and is going to oppose the position that we can foresee will be the position of national treasuries. the fact is that the union requires a larger budget and a budgetary policy crafted to promote economic recovery. national spending should be transferred to the european budget in places where there are clear cost efficiencies, economies of scale and value added, and where market failure requires stronger european policies to correct it. we must resource the budget by means of an independent and more progressive and transparent system.
madam president, as a new member of this house, i have listened to the many speakers who have focussed on mr barroso’s track record in office and have voiced many concerns. many i agree with. our paths diverge completely on the lisbon treaty, mr barroso. however, you have taken a great interest in my constituency of northern ireland. for this commitment i thank you. we value the support and close working relationship of commission officials at all levels with northern ireland. i look forward to this relationship continuing and my constituency benefiting from it. you will know about our past: the impact of violence on investment, and the need for new roads and rail links. you will know about the huge potential for the economy through the development of tourism. to aid our economic development i would urge the commission to examine what resources will be made available to redress the years of underinvestment. as many in this chamber have said already today, it is actions and delivery that count.
madam president, we are indeed living in extraordinary times, but mr barroso’s response to the economic crisis lacks strength and impact and his promises on social europe have not been kept. mr barroso, your political guidelines provide little illumination as to your plans and drag out much of the same rhetoric used five years ago. of course we need a strong and vibrant internal market bringing jobs and prosperity, but this must go hand in hand with improved social rights in europe for workers and citizens, not at their expense. despite strong pressure from this house to correct this imbalance and calls for a review of the posted workers directive, for social impact assessments and for a more ambitious economic recovery package, we are still waiting. earlier, you referred to union membership and the right to strike as sacred. across the uk, unions are once more in talks over strike action in response to problems associated with the posted workers directive, with fears of the undercutting of wages and undermining of collective agreements. your answer to my question on this issue last week sounded like warm words, yet you admitted that the directive falls short of its aims. the problems lie in implementation and interpretation by the european court of justice (ecj). you promised to make amends through a new legal instrument, but the ecj judgments have shown we need to strengthen the directive to stop the undercutting of wages. at this time of financial crisis we need clear legal guidelines and, mr barroso, we need the same wage for the same work at the same place, regardless of gender. what guarantees can you give us that this will be the case?
the next item is question time (b7-0203/2009). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
it is to mrs figueiredo’s credit that she shows such concern about the social impact of the closure of textile mills and the damage being done to the industry. but will the commissioner agree with me that the south korean free trade agreement actually provides as many opportunities for european textile manufacturers as threats, and indeed gives our quality textiles access to the korean market?
i am very pleased that mr higgins has asked his question. he is absolutely right about the situation he has described and you yourself, commissioner, have now acknowledged the facts of the case. will the commission, in the light of this, firstly suspend their gsp+ agreement with colombia, and secondly suspend our negotiations for a free trade agreement, until we get the assurances from the colombian government that trade unionists, human rights activists and others can go about their business safety in that country?
in the absence of mr moraes, i am afraid question 27 falls.
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, thank you for the speeches we have had this morning. i was particularly pleased to hear mrs malmström’s comments about the g20 pittsburgh representatives needing to agree to significant coordination in the continued support of stimulus measures, in the unwinding of these support measures when appropriate, and a determined coordinated effort on future regulation. however, the backdrop to this summit is nations spending trillions of dollars on bailouts and stimulus packages and in two of the largest world economies we are seeing some protectionist measures, particularly with regard to tyres and poultry, as well as two of the most complicated regulatory structures in the world, namely the eu and the us, looking to completely overhaul their financial systems. therefore i hope that the important issues of how to coordinate financial services, particularly now that some countries are showing early signs of coming out of this period of negative growth, will be the main topic of discussion and not the distraction of controlling bankers’ bonuses. this summit should focus on how we achieve a common regulatory framework in a common timescale so that we do not create an opportunity for competitive advantage by individual nations or regulatory arbitrage opportunity for speculative trading. there will be no first-mover advantage in financial regulation. a global, coordinated approach is the only one which would benefit the businesses looking to raise funds in wales, the eu and beyond. if my welsh businesses cannot access funds from the us, if the banks they rely on will require so much capital that the taxpayers of the eu need to take even more risk, we will not be thanked for moving first on overly burdensome regulation. my plea is that a global, coordinated approach is adopted at all times and maintained to ensure the future access to capital for all our businesses in wales, the eu and beyond.
mr president, i thank the commissioner. i especially agree with him on his charter for sustainable economic activity. i think this is what we must take to the g20 but i do not agree that we should use all our capital to focus on bankers’ bonuses. i think this is a distraction in many ways although it should be dealt with. neither is a wish list for solving the world’s problems frankly likely to win the day. the financial services industry is on fire. we need first to make sure that we have put out that fire and that it stays out. for this we need a consistent approach. the g20 is a leading forum, but we also need permanent structures in place as well like the transatlantic economic council to deal with issues like ifrs. if systemic risk is to be truly dealt with, we need to stop looking in the rear-view mirror and start focusing on the road ahead.
mr president, the g20 came up with many sensible responses: the need to rewrite financial regulation and supervision, and the need to act in a coordinated fashion. our national politicians are saying one thing, but here in the eu we seem to be doing another. the detail of the regulation that is already being considered by some of my colleagues shows divergence both in the timetable of implementation and in the detail of the regulation. our economies are still very fragile. unemployment is rising, and access to finance is a huge concern, especially for small and medium-sized businesses. do we want our british or european businesses to be at a competitive disadvantage when they need working capital? do we want to make it so expensive to borrow from a european bank that our customers, our corporates, just go and borrow from wall street and end up handing another coup to wall street at the expense of european banks? (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. – i agree with those who spoke about the need for a global co-ordinated approach. this is essential if we are to change the power structures of the global financial system. however neither the commission or the council made comment about the concept of 'living wills' for the banking sector. this week marks the anniversary of the collapse of lehman brothers. it is estimated that it will take ten years for the investment bank to be wound up. this is in contrast to the dunfermline building society which had a life will enabling its assets to be clearly identified. transparency is essential if we are to bring consumer confidence back to the banking sector.
on behalf of the s-d group. – mr president, swift has clearly become a testing ground for getting the balance right between our cooperation with the united states, fighting terrorism and protecting our fundamental rights. when, in our resolutions of 2006 and 2007, parliament asked for the mirroring site of swift to be moved from us to eu soil, it was obviously because we thought that the protection offered by the us framework to eu citizens was not in line with eu standards and would have to be improved. so it is a positive development, and our group welcomes the fact that swift’s two new servers will now be moved to europe and that a new legal framework will be set up in order for the us tftp to continue using and processing data in cooperation with our law enforcement authorities. my group can also see that the recommendation adopted by the council tries to address some of parliament’s and the european data protection supervisor’s concerns. but there are some key questions left open. if us legal standards continue to apply on eu soil for the processing of eu data, how can we guarantee respect for eu standards regarding procedural rights and the protection of personal data? to which judge can an eu citizen or an eu enterprise go in the case of criminal prosecution? of course, one of the most important issues is the timing of the agreement and the interim nature of the agreement, as the council and commission have set out. the choice of a third-pillar legal base, coupled with its interim character, leaves parliament – and, therefore, eu citizens – completely out of the legislative process. the socialist and democrat group is clear that this interim agreement should apply only for 12 months and that a new agreement should be negotiated with parliament as co-legislator so that we in this house can ensure that delicate balance of protecting the fundamental rights of european citizens in the important and critical fight against terrorism.
mr president, i think it is wonderful that both the commission and now, especially, the swedish presidency has breathed life into parliament’s ideas and ambitions in this fragile area. we all know the problems to do with the environment of the baltic sea and the specific economic difficulties of the area. but this parliament remains ambitious, and i think this parliament does want to be involved. one of the mechanisms you did not mention was the possibility of a regular report back to this parliament so that we may have a debate like today to watch how things are progressing. for me, i will have the pleasure, as a vice-president of this house, of participating in the conference that you are organising on friday. i think there are concerns still remaining about funding, to make sure that this house sees the results of this strategy that it deserves. a macro-regional economic strategy could be the way forward in other ways, in other places, in europe. let us hope that this one works well.
mr president, time has, perhaps, habituated us to the hollowness of the ritual that we have just carried out. familiar as we are with the eu structures, we have ceased to see how anomalous, how outrageous, it is that we have supreme executive and legislative power in the hands of an unaccountable and unelected bureaucracy. the majority of laws in the member states come from a european commission whom nobody votes for and nobody can get rid of. the only bit that pretends to democratic authority is the rite that was just carried out in this chamber, which i cannot help saying put me in mind of one of those occasional meetings of the people’s assembly in the old comecon times where we all stand up and congratulate ourselves on having rubber-stamped the decision. i have no personal problems with josé manuel barroso. if we are going to have a federalist president of the commission – and i can see that is the will of the house – it might as well be him as anyone else. he seems a nice chap – and, like all british politicians, i am profoundly lusophile and aware of our relationship with our oldest ally – but there is something farcical about the pretence that there is any democratic involvement in a system that puts a monopoly on the right to initiate law in the hands of people that we cannot vote for and cannot get rid of.
mr president, like my previous colleague who spoke earlier, i would like to say that i also have my reservations about mr barroso being re-elected as president of the commission. after all, he more than anyone is committed to further european integration, often against the will of the peoples of europe. but he did come to our group meeting, the ecr group meeting, and explain that he was in favour of smart regulation. now, of course, there is much doubt about what ‘smart regulation’ means. many people believe that smart regulation is bad regulation, or that any regulation is not very smart regulation. but i would ask him, if he really is in favour of smart regulation, to make sure that, on every directive, the commission carries out a proper economic impact assessment. we have going through this house next year the alternative investment fund management directive. the commission has failed so far to conduct any proper economic impact assessment – in fact they say it cannot be done. how, under those circumstances, are we going to get smart regulation? i ask mr barroso to reconsider.
mr president, i opposed the joint motion for a resolution on forest fires, despite the fact that i agree with european countries cooperating voluntarily to prevent, fight and repair the appalling damage caused by forest fires. however, i object to the creation of european union bodies that would exercise power over member states in areas that are wider than necessary to deal with this problem. i draw attention to paragraphs 3, 7 and 8 of the joint motion for a resolution. this proposal is exploiting admirable humanitarian responses to the appalling tragedies that we have seen in order to take further steps towards the creation of the european protection force called ‘europe aid’ as outlined in the barnier report.
in writing. − although it is not the norm for me to abstain, i felt that, for today’s vote on the election of the president of the commission, abstention was the right choice. i accept that mr barroso has made some concessions, for example on the issue of social impact assessments. however, mr barroso has failed to show commitment in putting forward proposals of importance to the s&d group – for example, a strengthening of the posted workers directive, a directive of vital importance for the protection of welsh workers. we also need more commitment about the portfolios given to newly appointed commissioners and a clear explanation from mr barroso about the organisation of the next college. i do not believe that mr barroso’s pledge to fight social dumping in europe is far-reaching enough, and it is for this reason, as well as the abovementioned, that i took the decision to abstain on this vote.
in writing. − today's debate on forest fires in welcomed. the devastation to many sites of natural beauty is a loss to us all. we must show solidarity with our colleagues and help the countries affected.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, tajikistan is not blessed with the energy and mineral resources of other countries in central asia. however, that is no excuse for marginalising tajikistan at the expense of its wealthier and larger neighbours. central asia is a region vital to the eu’s political and energy security. in terms of strengthening relations with the eu, some countries in the region will progress faster than others. that is inevitable. but we must retain a sense of collective engagement as we continue to improve ties with what was, until quite recently, a diplomatically isolated and largely overlooked region, particularly by the european union. favouring some countries in central asia over others risks creating a discord and division in the region. in particular, islamist terrorists in the region have shown a determination to exploit poverty and inadequate governance to radicalise the people and spread their message of hatred. the government of tajikistan has rejected extremism and, with the help of the international community, is seeking now to consolidate its nation’s democracy. tajikistan still bears the scars of a brutal civil war between secular and jihadi forces that erupted after the collapse of the soviet union in the early 1990s. people in tajikistan have no wish to see the return of bloodshed, which is why they have given courageous support to nato operations against the taliban in afghanistan. the isaf mission in afghanistan is vital to tajikistan’s long-term future and its desire to find a security anchor westwards. it is fair to say that tajikistan’s record in democratisation and human rights is imperfect, but i am convinced that dialogue and engagement on the eu’s part will encourage tajikistan towards positive change. certainly that seems to be the european union’s view with regard to belarus and uzbekistan, so tajikistan deserves to be treated in the same way. the ecr group therefore supports a deeper strategic political and economic partnership with tajikistan based on a commitment of progress towards openness, democracy and higher standards of human rights.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the alde group firmly and consistently supports the goal of eu accession for all the western balkan countries. we are aiming to equip their citizens to join an integrated free movement area with a single market and common values. freedom of short-term travel is a vital part of preparation for that. the commission and the council obviously share that goal, so why on earth has the commission managed to put forward such an ill-judged and divisive proposal? the liberal group certainly does not want to undermine the pressure for high standards of passport and border security and the rule of law more generally, but this exercise has to be fair, consistent and effective. it is not as if there are no anomalies at present. for instance, serbia and montenegro have been included in the july proposal: although they did not meet the benchmarks at the date of the proposal, they are expected to do so in the future. then there is the requirement for biometric passports, of which bosnia has now issued 40 000, by the way; but croatians, who have benefited from visa-free travel for some time, do not need one. we are saying that serbia’s stabilisation and association agreement cannot be progressed while mladić stays hidden, since it shows lack of control over the security services. but for visa waiver they are deemed to meet the requirements of block 3: public order and security – some contradiction here. the way to keep bosnia and albania up to the mark would be to include them in the legal scope of this proposed regulation, but to make the actual implementation of visa waiver conditional on a commission declaration of compliance – in fact, similar to that which the commission needs to make this autumn about serbia and montenegro. the process would be exactly the same, though a bit later. any prolonged delay for bosnia and albania and the complete exclusion of kosovo will have very divisive and detrimental consequences, encouraging the search for croatian, serbian or, in the case of kosovans, macedonian passports and undermining the integrity and governance of bosnia and kosovo in particular. i cannot believe the commission and the council intend to pursue this damaging path.
madam president, these measures allow visa-free access to the eu schengen group member states from serbia, montenegro and macedonia as from january 2010. the commission envisages giving albania and bosnia and herzegovina visa-free access possibly by mid-2010. so within 12 months we could see another 20.7 million people given free access to the eu. strictly speaking, this should not affect the uk, which is not a member of the schengen group, but in reality it will. access to the eu for millions more people from some of the poorest and most corrupt countries in europe will enable them to cross the first barrier in gaining illegal entry to britain. these countries will eventually be full members of the eu anyway, with full legal access to the eu. these measures are yet another undermining of britain’s ability to control her own borders, and yet another reason why britain should leave the european union.
author. − madam president, can i say, as a gay man, i am proud that this house and others are speaking out against this proposed law. this proposed law will clearly breach eu treaties on human rights, particularly article 6, as well as the employment framework directive and general policies on non-discrimination. it also, interestingly, breaches the un convention on the rights of the child, in that it encourages discrimination against young lesbians and gay people. so, whom does it protect, and from what? the british conservatives introduced in great britain a similar law in 1988. it was recognised then, and recognised now, that these laws lead to censorship and the promotion of discrimination and homophobia: discrimination and homophobia which destroys people’s lives and blights the souls of those who practise it. the proposed law has been condemned by ngos, including the international lesbian and gay association, the council of europe and amnesty international, as well as others. it affects young lesbians and gay men – teachers, public officials – and could be used to prevent young people having access to any material – films, books, plays, works of art – created by a gay man or a lesbian. are they going to try and stop young people studying the works of plato, shakespeare, oscar wilde, walt whitman, tennessee williams, tchaikovsky and others, the music of elton john, or idolising tennis greats such as martina navrátilová? it will affect the very way young people and others speak, think and act. and why? young people need education, not isolation; they need to understand the world in all its diversity and be taught respect for those who are different. the love of one human being for another is never lessened by gender or sexuality: it is love. lesbians and gay men are ordinary men and women made extraordinary by extremists’ preoccupation with our sex lives and the defamation that lesbians and gay men are a threat to society. that is a vile misrepresentation. any civilised society is judged not by how it treats its majority but how it treats its minorities. so i say to lithuanians and people across europe: reject this dangerous step back to the past. (applause)
madam president, mr landsbergis has given a deeply unconvincing justification of this law; i was surprised, i thought he would justify it more. the council and the commission have expressed their deep concern, and that is the correct line. anti-discrimination and freedom of expression are absolutely fundamental principles in european law. in my own member state, as mr cashman said previously, we had such a law in 1988, but it is now history and this law will become history because, as a community of values, one of the eu’s greatest strengths lies in our common endeavour to raise the bar on human rights and the protection of our fundamental freedoms. it is also difficult when one member state is under the spotlight for a potential breach of this law but it is because of our community of values that we can analyse those laws and we can say, as the commission and council have said, they cause deep concern for us. the fundamental rights agency should do its job and give its opinion and, as the commission and council have said there are problems within existing law, anti-discrimination laws in this european union; let us defend what we have and let us ensure that the socialist group, along with our sister party in lithuania, condemn this law, and let us hope that that is what will happen – that it will be consigned to history. (applause)
the next item is question time (b7-0203/2009). the following questions are addressed to the council.
thank you very much for that reply. i am sad as well that the conference is being held when we are in strasbourg. but can you make sure that on the agenda of that conference we do have the council of europe convention against trafficking highlighted? because there are a number of member states who still have not signed it, and there are some member states – including sweden, of course – that have not ratified it. so i think it is very important to make sure that it is high on the agenda at that conference, so we can make anti-trafficking a reality. we have the wherewithal there. we really must act on it.
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, as we have heard from other speakers, there is a crisis in the milk sector. there is no doubt that we must take action to alleviate their pain, but let me make it very clear that this is a short-term crisis which requires short-term market measures by the commission, as outlined in the resolution. let us also be clear that, for too long, european consumers have paid for a dysfunctional agricultural policy which has failed both farmers and consumers. this crisis should not therefore be used as an excuse to turn our backs on the road to further reform and liberalisation of the cap. that is why we have tabled amendments to this effect and why i welcome your reassurance on this matter. we also want to see the commission focused on sorting out the market, which is clearly failing. consumers are losing out as they fail to get the benefits from the fall in milk prices. farmers are losing out because they do not receive a fair share of the retail milk price. we welcome the commission’s investigations into the food chain but, commissioner, we want you to go further. will you commit to action that will root out supermarket abuse of their monopoly positions? will you commit to a competitive market that allows producers a fair share of the cake, and will you commit to a functional milk market that gives a fair deal to farmers and a fair price to consumers? i look forward to your response, commissioner.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i feel very strongly that the commission was very late in acting on this particular problem. they sat on their hands for too long, and many farmers have suffered grievously for that. we can either decide to help the industry, or we can decide that we will ultimately let our farmers go out of business: then we can import from abroad with all the problems that brings us. i welcome your remarks for the future, commissioner, but i am not happy about your remarks for the short term. i think we need to do more in the short term to help the industry through this present crisis. those short-term measures require immediate action. of course i remember the time of the milk lakes and the butter mountains, and i do not want to go back to that. i do not think anybody in the industry wants to go back to that situation: neither the farmer, nor the processors, nor the commission nor we in this parliament. we do not want to return to that, but one of the main problems i see at this moment in time is that, while the farmers have taken a drastic reduction in what they are receiving for their milk, consumers are paying almost the same as they paid before. until we tackle the power of the supermarkets in this area we will not have the answer. they have to be controlled. we need an ombudsman, someone who can tell the supermarkets that they are acting beyond their remit, that they are ripping the people off, ripping the farmers off and putting them out of business in the process.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her words to us today. in my country, in northern ireland, the dairy sector is of vital importance. when the dairy sector struggles, the rest of the rural economy struggles. currently dairy farmers receive just over 20 cents per litre for milk amid escalating costs. in northern ireland not only have they had to contend with poor milk prices and high costs, but we have suffered a third consecutive wet summer and this has had a devastating effect on the dairy industry in northern ireland. it was distressing last night to see farmers in belgium so angry and feeling so helpless that they are spraying milk onto their fields in protest at the poor price of milk and the difficulties that they too are encountering. the commission has taken welcome steps to put a base on the market but we cannot sustain prices at an uneconomically low level. i call on the commission to take short-term measures to help: measures that will increase demand for milk; measures that will cut the cost of production; measures that will address the supply chain with its decreasing farm-gate prices and high supermarket prices; and measures that in the long term will create a sustainable industry and a future for young farmers who are experiencing severe difficulties with low prices and high bank charges.
madam president, i have major concerns for the dairy industry in the uk. i feel that the biggest problem lies with the retail industry, which is making huge profits off the backs of our dairy farmers. when we see what the supermarkets are charging consumers for milk, and then look at what the dairy farmer actually receives, the difference is just incredible. the work and the major cost in producing milk are borne by the farmer, but at the same time the supermarkets are reaping huge profits. the margin that the farmer receives is so unfair. we need to put pressure on the supermarkets to pay a fair price to the industry, and it is my view that the price of milk in the supermarkets will not have to change. the consumer will not have to pay any more for their milk. the supermarkets need to reduce their profit margins. it is quite scandalous when we see the massive profits that these supermarkets are enjoying every year and at the same time our dairy industry is struggling. if action is not taken on the issue in the very near future then i really do believe that many of our dairy farmers in wales, and the rest of the uk, will go out of business. i have one quick point on what the commissioner said this morning about the super levy. i am concerned by those comments. i think it will hit our most efficient producers – those who have risen to the challenge, responded to the market and invested heavily in their farms, following a lead from the commission that quotas will be abolished. imposing a super levy goes against the structural changes which both the eu and the uk government claim to support.
madam president, can i compliment the commissioner on her vision for the future of the industry, and may i say that i strongly support her intention to abolish milk quotas. i think this is the right decision to make. i also welcome her proposals to meet this current crisis as a sensible and appropriate way to support producers through a difficult time. there are, however, two points that i want to make. firstly, in my view, the implementation of the super levy at this time would be inappropriate. it is a short-term, knee-jerk reaction. it will send all the wrong messages and it will only effectively penalise efficient producers who are making plans to stay in the industry for the long term. secondly, we need to recognise that there is little or no direct relationship between the price in the retail sector and the raw material price received at the farm gate. that is what i term a dysfunctional price-chain mechanism. the major influence will always be the global marketplace, and we have to recognise that the global marketplace will always be volatile. i therefore urge the commission in the long term to come forward with plans to ensure that there will be some sort of stability mechanism for the benefit not only of producers but also, of course, of consumers in the long term.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i have three brief points to make. firstly, complacency over energy policy is putting us increasingly in the dangerous position of dependency on russia. where possible it clearly makes sense to coordinate our response, but any unified eu policy would inevitably be skewed by those countries that are already in bed with gazprom and related interests. and we should not be handing yet another area of vital national interest to the european commission, which sees every possible crisis as an opportunity to extend its competence. needless to say, many of us will vote against any endorsement of the lisbon treaty or further efforts to take forward political integration on the back of the various energy concerns of our countries. secondly, diversification of sources of supply requires greater commitment to nabucco. for the success of this pipeline, turkish cooperation is essential, yet the opening of the energy chapter in eu negotiations with turkey is being blocked. what are the council and commission doing to resolve this unhelpful situation? thirdly, i notice the word ‘nuclear’ does not appear in the resolution. clearly, sustainable, diverse sources of energy supply require a greater commitment to nuclear energy and in that respect i agree with our colleague mr van baalen.
mr president, we have three great challenges in this area – security of energy supply, the inefficiency of our internal market in energy and the imperative of combating climate change. desertec and nabucco are central to meeting these challenges. if we succeed in developing high-voltage solar thermal power in north africa, we can give a sense of purpose to the union for the mediterranean, we can assist in water provisioning in the countries on the southern mediterranean rim and we can develop electricity generation technology, for which there is a massive world market. if we can convince member states of the political need for greater energy independence, and stop berlin and paris from undercutting it at every turn, nabucco can help us diversify our supply of oil and gas. the motion for a resolution before us today says little about what we need to do here in the european union. we need to develop renewable energy production – solar thermal and other. we need to build high-voltage dc electricity distribution capacity through a smart grid – some eur 50 billion of investment, but creating many jobs – and we need oil and gas storage facilities and, even more, a storage policy to reduce our dangerous dependence on russia. our energy provision will continue to rely on oil and nuclear power but, as we prepare for the world climate change conference in copenhagen, the only big idea is the switch to renewables. wind could meet all the new electricity demand in china in the next 20 years and replace 23% of their coal generation. deserts get more energy from the sun in six hours than humankind uses in a year. commissioner, you said this is not part of our strategy for security of energy supply. well, it should be, and it must be.
mr president, i want to thank the commissioner for reminding this house that there is also a demand side to energy security. the decision to take incandescent light bulbs off the european market will save the equivalent of the annual electricity generation of finland. this autumn we are seeking agreement with the council on a package of energy efficient measures. forty per cent of the energy we use is consumed in buildings, so it matters a great deal for the future of energy security that we set high standards of efficiency for both new and existing buildings. i hope that member states in the council will support the parliament’s proposals, which are designed to put a stop to the utter waste of energy which is currently used in heating, cooling and lighting. if nothing else, ministers should support those proposals out of self-interest because it will considerably ease their job and their responsibility of keeping the lights on and the gas flowing.
mr president, europe’s future depends on securing energy. as both the nabucco agreement and the desertec initiative show, turkey is an essential gateway, and in this regard i echo mr van orden’s point. it is critical at this time to be building greater trust and deeper ties with countries who will be our energy partners, including middle eastern and north african states. in relation to many of these there is a connected development issue. with desertec the mass generation of electricity from solar power is a unique opportunity for revenue generation, which must be used for the benefit of their people also. this opportunity must not be squandered. unfortunately, some member states – including my own – have not used the recent past to prepare a coherent energy strategy. my own constituency, the north west of england, has been identified as a prime area for wind power generation, and yet the uk’s planning laws are an obstruction. whilst we must look outward for future energy supplies, member states must also make the best use of the resources and potential they already have.
mr president, the ecr group supports the need for an eu common external energy security policy based on solidarity between member states, but energy mix must remain a member state competence. we must, of course, diversify away from overdependence on russian oil and gas, of which even the uk, traditionally dependent on the north sea and norwegian gas, is now an importer. we must develop the southern corridor and should consider the white stream project, in addition to the nabucco project, as a priority, but also with trans-caspian and even trans-saharan routes as exciting future prospects for the european union. we need better gas-storage capacity in europe and more integration of our pipeline and electricity grids. in the uk we are keen on new nuclear power stations as well. i welcome investment in renewables, including the desertec solar project, which combat climate change as well as aid diversification. we also need better energy efficiency – though the recent eu ban on incandescent light bulbs is draconian, ignores the health hazards to the skin and the environment from the mercury, and makes the eu needlessly unpopular in my country.
mr president, i welcome the text put forward today by the various political groups and the earlier statement by the commissioner, particularly the recognition of the need to diversify our energy technology and to secure our supply. but of course there is no one answer to ensuring our supply. all technologies must be considered. there has to be a mix, including ccs, and, of course, where i come from is wales, which still has a plentiful supply of coal. energy efficiency must also be improved. that is why i believe we should be spending more of european structural funds on energy efficiency measures to save energy, but also to boost the economy. i would also like to make two further quick points. firstly, on desertec, which i believe is an exciting project, but we have to recognise that it is a long-term project. it is not a quick fix. secondly, the storage of gas reserves is important, but again we need to recognise that it is expensive and funding will be required. so, i support all the texts put forward today, particularly by the s&d group, but these are important points and i would welcome the views of the commissioner on those points.
mr president, see how the thicket of eu regulation grows. see how brussels shoots its tendrils into every crevasse, every nook of national life. issues like this, the protection of minors, are for many of our constituents sensitive and ethical issues. if we in this parliament presume to legislate for the nation states, what is the point of them? is there no limit to our presumption? let me make my position absolutely clear on this. when the united kingdom had the closest equivalent to this legislation, which was called section 28, i was virtually the only conservative to oppose it. i was years before the rest of my party in pushing for full equality for gay people, including on the equalisation of the age of consent, and on civil partnerships. i am delighted that the rest of my party has now reached that point of view. but i am not a lithuanian legislator! the people who should determine this issue in lithuania are those who are answerable through the democratic mechanisms and procedures of that country. if we are not prepared to allow them to do that, we might as well mothball our national parliaments, turn them into museums and lock the door.
mr president, like all those who have spoken i am aware of the extent of the crisis in our agrarian sector. any member who represents farmers knows that. but the crisis is a product of our existing agricultural system – the common agricultural policy – which has had calamitous consequences for farmers in my part of the united kingdom. and not only for farmers: for our consumers, for our taxpayers, and indeed for the poor of the third world who find that their markets are denied and that they then have surpluses dumped on them. we were gradually moving, in the european union, away from the system of direct support that had such deleterious environmental and economic consequences, and now we are rushing back in. i can tell you that in the united kingdom people have clear memories of how the milk quota system worked. we were allocated a quota that was less than our national production, so we have the extraordinary sight of british farmers using milk as fertiliser or pouring it away down the drain and then having to re-import milk from the netherlands, france or other parts of the european union to get up to the level of demand. we were just beginning to get away, and now this house has voted to bring it all back. anyone who thinks that the european union is going in the direction of doing less and devolving power need only look at today’s vote.
mr president, last week saw the re-release of several albums by the band the beatles in digitally remastered form. this week we are debating the milk quota system in a remastered form. they might not have much in common at first glance until you consider the title of one of the beatles’ songs, back in the ussr. that, i think, sums it all up. here we have a system where prices and quotas are decided by bureaucrats, not by the needs of consumers or even the needs of suppliers. here we have a system where consumers pay twice over for higher prices and higher taxes to support a system that did not complain when prices were high. i remember towards the end of the last mandate, martin schulz saying that at last he had seen a social democratisation of the epp. well, actually i think his dream has gone further and we are seeing the sovietisation of the eu. are we really looking at an ‘eussr’?
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues can agree with much of this report. we remain wholeheartedly supportive of providing equal rights and opportunities for people regardless of their disability, race, religion, or sexuality, and abhor discrimination in all its forms. however, we do have serious misgivings with regard to the involvement of the fundamental rights agency and the european union on issues which we believe to be the preserve of individual nation states. that is why we have decided to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. − members of the european conservatives and reformists strongly support equal treatment for all regardless of race, religion, sexuality, or disability, and strongly condemn discrimination in all its forms. however, we do have serious misgivings with regard to the involvement of the fundamental rights agency and the european union on issues which we believe to be the preserve of individual nation states. as a democratic nation, we believe this matter should be decided by the lithuanian parliament and the lithuanian people. therefore, we have decided not to support this resolution.
in writing. − we recognise the different concerns of our various allies. however, from a british perspective, efforts to achieve a more coherent eu approach to energy security do not require the lisbon treaty or the extension of european commission competence. sufficient mechanisms are already in place which would enable eu member states to speak with one voice in dealing with russia, should we so wish. the references in this resolution to the lisbon treaty are highly detrimental. british conservatives are vehemently opposed to the ratification of this treaty and to further attempts at eu political integration. i regret also the failure to make any reference to nuclear energy among the mix of sustainable and diverse energy supply sources that will be required in the coming years. energy security is first and foremost the responsibility of our own governments.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the scenes of devastation and destruction caused by typhoon morakot will remain in our minds for a long time, but many people in taiwan will be living with the consequences of this tragedy for years to come. over 700 people lost their lives and thousands of others have faced major disruption. the taiwanese government under president ma responded promptly by deploying soldiers to the worst-affected communities and areas, and requesting assistance from the international community. the swedish eu presidency and the commission should be congratulated on their work in activating the community civil protection mechanism. i do hope now that the commission will commit to longer-term assistance to taiwan to enable full recovery of its people and economy and the rebuilding of the infrastructure. i have no doubt of the gratitude of the people and government of taiwan for the solidarity and support shown by the eu. furthermore, as chairman of the ep taiwan friendship group, i look forward to finding out the latest situation when i lead a delegation of meps to taiwan next month. the calamity that has affected taiwan may well become more commonplace, both in taiwan and around the world, as a result of climate change. it is therefore essential that taiwan, as an island vulnerable to such meteorological phenomena and as a major global industrial power, is enabled to participate meaningfully and with dignity in appropriate international organisations, not least those related to weather and climate change. in particular, taiwan should be allowed to participate in the united nations framework convention for climate change and the world meteorological organisation. both the council and the commission support taiwan’s meaningful participation in united nations bodies now, and i hope they will use the opportunity, arising from this disaster, that has now been presented to taiwan to promote taiwan’s involvement in these structures.
mr president, a culture of criminal impunity is developing in russia with regard to the abuse of human rights activists. journalists who dare to challenge the official view of things are harassed; ethnic minorities suffer disproportionately from violent crime, which seems to go unsolved; campaigners for greater freedoms are at best marginalised and at worst forcibly silenced. it is hard to see precisely where the threat to human rights defenders in russia comes from, but time and again we see wanton abuses going unpunished and a lackadaisical approach from the judicial authorities. russia has got used to the equivocation of the eu. this is clear from the way the union has reacted to russia’s bullying of ukraine or russia’s invasion and occupation of sovereign georgian territory last summer. clearly there are vital strategic questions at stake in the eu having good relations with russia, but we cannot allow these questions to erase our obligation to speak out for our fundamental freedoms and shared european common values, freedoms and values the russian people themselves should be enabled to share fully in peace and security.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i have to agree with mrs jeggle. i am utterly astonished that, in front of the whole parliament here in strasbourg, we are having an urgent debate on a traffic accident in kazakhstan, albeit an accident where somebody was tragically killed and where the driver of the car happens to a human rights activist who has been duly sentenced in a court of law to four years in prison – but even in a low-security prison, which has suddenly become, in the terms of the resolution, 'a labour camp'. i am afraid that bringing this kind of matter before this house really brings the reputation of this house into disrepute and it means that the good work that we try to do in human rights is devalued, when we start talking about traffic accidents. are we seriously suggesting the kazakh government threw a civilian under the car wheels of a human rights activist? are we seriously suggesting that the sentence is too harsh for somebody who was convicted of manslaughter? we cannot go on traducing a country like kazakhstan, simply because of political motivation, to try and bring down their reputation before they chair the osce next year. this is politically motivated, and it is a disgrace that it is on the agenda. i hope the house will throw out these resolutions and support the amendments.
author. − mr president, syria is an important country in the middle east and has a vital role to play in reducing the ability of iran to support terrorist actions, via its proxies hezbollah and hamas, against israel. syria also has a habit of fomenting unrest in lebanon, which syria still regards as barely sovereign and within its sphere of influence. syria is also a secular regime. in fact, it remains the only vestige now of the once powerful ba’athist party which ruled iraq as well, so things like women’s rights are advanced. however, overall it remains a brutal one-party dictatorship. the detention of muhannad al hassani as a leading human rights defender is alarming. if syria really wants us to support an eu association agreement, it should please release mr al hassani immediately and end the persecution of human rights defenders such as mr al hassani.
mr president, when you spoke to us presenting your candidacy as president of the european parliament, you said that you were going to be a very objective figure and an objective chair. i have to say that you have just made a speech on the irish referendum – i did stand up when you were speaking, but you were locked into your text – that was one of the most subjective, partisan speeches i have ever heard, and inappropriate from an objective chairman. (mixed reactions)
in writing. − the governor of the bank of england (mervyn king) has stated, and i believe correctly, ‘banks are international in life but national in death...’. it is national governments and national taxpayers who pay when banks have to be bailed out. it follows therefore that banking supervision must be carried out on a national basis and not via the eu. this is why i voted against the setting-up of an eu special committee on the financial and economic crisis.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i spent most of my early political years fighting against dangerous individuals like mr cohn-bendit. i really was quite alarmed a moment ago that i was actually agreeing with one or two bits of his speech, and i was only saved by the fact that in his final remarks i was able to be totally opposed to him again. i want to be quite consistent about my position, speaking as leader of the british conservatives in the european parliament. for those of us who support the principle of the nation states coming together to cooperate freely in europe, the progress of the lisbon treaty perhaps should not be such a cause for celebration today. the tragedy of our union is that, through too many people’s eyes, it has become an elitist project, pushing its ideology onto an increasingly sceptical public, according to eurostat information. you lose one referendum so you call another to get the result you want. if the term ‘constitution’ proves unpopular and unacceptable it is given a fresh wrapping so that past rejections can be ignored. if the promised referendum looks unwinnable it is cancelled without apparent shame or embarrassment. in the uk, all political parties, including a government in office, pledged the british people that they would be consulted on the future of europe. the socialists and the liberals reneged on their promise. such political tricks may secure short-term advantages but we should regret the fact that the peoples of europe have hardly had their faith in their politicians enhanced by such cynical manoeuvres. we in the ecr want a europe built on the secure foundations of popular support and the democratic legitimacy offered by the institutions of its nation states. but the lisbon treaty is, in our view, still a step in the wrong direction. by opening the door to a supranational foreign and security policy, by giving more power to european institutions and abolishing national vetoes in policy areas crucial to our states, the treaty takes a dramatic step towards the superstate feared by many. the peoples of europe do not want a union of ever closer centralisation, a union that increases its powers at the expense of its member states, a union which is remote from their daily concerns. however, they do want a europe of diversity, a europe where the different cultures and ways of life combine, where added value can be achieved. they want a reformed union, a more accountable, transparent, democratic union which delivers value for money in those areas in which it has delegated responsibility, a europe closer and more relevant to the people. the lisbon treaty has therefore been a missed opportunity. i served in the convention following the laeken declaration, which i much supported, a convention which drafted the original constitutional text. i know the details well, the good points as well as the bad. the uk conservatives have been consistent. we believe that the treaty as it has turned out will not take things forward in the interests of the people. and we in the ecr will continue to fight for our vision of the european union, a vision in tune with the hopes and aspirations of the peoples of europe. we will continue to argue for a european union fit for the purposes of the future, not the past, and for a european union which rests securely on the support of its peoples and not only the priorities of any elite. we should all reflect on that.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, well, it is all terribly simple really, isn’t it? we have had one vote against the treaty in ireland and one vote for the treaty in ireland, so if we have we got any sort of sporting sense we ought to make this the best of three; but the difference is that with a third referendum let’s make it a free and a fair referendum. because what has happened in ireland most certainly is not that! in fact, i hope you are all very proud of yourselves because what you have done is you have taken the littlest boy in the playground, got him into the corner and given him a good kicking. this is a victory for the bully boys; it is a victory for big money and a victory for bureaucrats. the whole thing was a travesty! (heckling)oh, so you respect this vote, do you? you did not respect the last vote, did you? the european commission poured in millions of pounds of taxpayers’ money – well, pounds or euros, it doesn’t matter, though it does in our case because we have still got the pound, thank god! – you poured in millions. something like a factor of between 10:1 and 20:1 was the outspending of the ‘yes’ side to the ‘no’ side. the referendum commission in ireland did not do its job, did not tell the irish people that of course the lisbon constitutional treaty has profound impacts on their own constitution; and, perhaps worst of all, the broadcasting commission in ireland changed the rules, so there was not equal coverage for the ‘yes’ and the ‘no’ sides. the whole thing was an outrage. but what they did campaign on, what you all campaigned on, was ‘vote “yes” for jobs’. that was what it was all about. well, hot off the press, folks: aer lingus have laid people off today and intel, the people who put eur 400 000 into the ‘yes’ campaign, have laid off 300 people today. one thousand, five hundred and fifty jobs have gone since saturday; the only jobs that were preserved by the ‘yes’ vote were the jobs of the political class. i suspect that it is all over. i suspect that for ireland their period of independence will be a very brief one in their history. i do not think that president klaus will be able to hold out, i hope that he does; he is a fine and brave man. but it looks like we have got the victory of bureaucracy over national democracy. in historical terms, i think britain now finds herself very alone, perhaps as she was back in 1940, but… (mixed reactions)… there is a real debate, there is a real debate here. what is the point of having a conservative prime minister if mr blair becomes the overlord? what is the point of a foreign secretary if we have got an eu foreign secretary with his own diplomatic service? what is the point of any of it? as far as i am concerned, this irish referendum begins the real debate. there is no more pretending: if you want national democracy you cannot remain a member of this european union, and we will campaign for britain to leave and to leave as soon possible.
mr president, yesterday i asked mrs wallström, the vice-president of the commission, whether the lisbon treaty was essentially the same as the constitutional treaty that it replaced. she said the changes were those required by the british government and they involved changes in names and symbols. she did not use the word ‘only’ but she might easily have done. the constitutional treaty had already been rejected by the electorates of france and the netherlands, and the united kingdom was due to hold its referendum. it would certainly have resulted in a rejection. it is clear that the replacement of the constitutional treaty by the european reform treaty was carried out at the request of the british government to enable them to renege on their pledge to hold a referendum. the substance would remain the same, but the names and symbols would be changed as part of a thoroughly dishonest claim that the treaties were different and a referendum would not be necessary. how can anybody dare to call this trickery and this dishonesty any kind of democracy?
a uachtaráin, labhair muintir na héireann. glacaim leis sin. maíonn iad siúd a deir gur vóta 'tá' a bhí sa vóta seo don eoraip, gur vóta 'níl' don eoraip a bhí ann anuraidh. níorbh ea. ní raibh tacaíocht na héireann don eoraip i gceist anuraidh ná i mbliana. rinne coimisiún na heorpa cinneadh méid ollmhór acmhainní a chaitheamh go díreach roimh an reifreann ar fheachtas bolscaireachta ar bhuntáistí an aontais eorpaigh. chuir sin leis an smaoineamh gur vóta faoi 'tá' nó 'níl' don eoraip a bhí ann seachas ‘tá’ nó ‘níl’ do chonradh liospóin. is oth liom é sin. tá dúshlán righin agus soiléir roimh gach duine sa seomra seo anois chun aithint gur gá dul i ngleic go fóill le cuid mhór de na himní a tháinig chun cinn le linn fheachtas an reifrinn. tá imní ar leith ar dhaoine faoi thuarastail, faoi chearta oibrithe agus faoi sheirbhísí poiblí, chomh maith le neamh-mhíleatú agus glór na stát beag. dúradh le muintir na héireann an t-am seo dá gcaithfeadh siad 'níl' mar vóta an dara huair go mbeadh éire fágtha ina haonar, fágtha leithlisithe in aghaidh na géarchéime eacnamaíche. ba chóir dóibh siúd a thacaigh leis an chonradh mar chonradh do phoist agus d’infheistíocht, na poist agus an téarnamh a sholáthar anois. níor chóir dearmad a dhéanamh ar na gealltanais a rinneadh a luaithe a bhí an toradh a d'iarr rialtas na héireann agus ceannairí ae bainte amach.
mr president, frankly we should thank mr farage for his contribution to the irish campaign. his singular style of post-colonial jingoism certainly served to recruit several of the irish republicans to the pro-treaty cause. stranger still, though, is the complete absence from that campaign of the british tory party, who were skulking behind the petticoats of declan ganley and president klaus. the fact is that the conservative party stands all on its own as a prospective party of government that is still opposing this great qualitative step forward in european integration. consider the absurdity of the eurosceptics, because opposing lisbon means sticking with the current treaty of nice and the present rather clumsy and opaque – and too often ineffective – union that fails to respond to public demand and to global challenges. britain deserves much better than the conservative party, and europe certainly needs more.
mr president, i was elected in june to represent the south west of england and gibraltar and during the election campaign i was saddened by the large number of people i met who no longer support britain’s membership of the eu. it saddened me because i believe that the eu has been a force for good in the world. it has promoted peace and reconciliation amongst the peoples of europe; i hope it will continue to do so. the single market promotes trade and prosperity; world-leading companies such as airbus in my constituency have shown what we can achieve when we pool our industrial resources. when i was a student i lived in france for 12 months and i came home a francophile. i want britain to enjoy warm and friendly relationships with all our european neighbours. my concern is that the current march towards political union without the support of the peoples of europe threatens to undermine the good work that the eu has done. i respect the fact that the irish people have now voted in favour of the lisbon treaty, though i think it disgraceful that they were pressurised into holding a second vote by countries which had not even held one referendum. the conduct of gordon brown is particularly reprehensible. his legacy to britain will be not only to leave us bankrupt but also to deny the british people a vote on this latest transfer of power from westminster to brussels. breaking his promise to hold a referendum threatens to undermine british support for the eu and i deeply regret that. i cannot understand why those in favour of political union seem determined to build this structure on the worst possible foundations. do they not understand that a political union built without popular support is likely to end in failure?
mr president, an earlier speaker accused my colleague nigel farage of not respecting irish democracy. can i assure them that he does. what he has no respect for is the unfair and biased way in which the referendum campaign was conducted. indeed, such is his and our party’s respect for democracy that we would like to see referenda in the 26 countries that have so far been denied them. another speaker said that it was not the first ‘yes’ vote that there had been and there had been ‘yes’ votes in luxembourg and spain, but surely those referenda were on the constitution and not the lisbon treaty? we are told that lisbon is different from the constitution, so which is it? have we had the same referenda in six countries, or have we had referenda in four countries on the constitution and referenda in two countries on lisbon? if it is the first case, then it is a 3-3 score draw. if it is the second case, it is a 2-2 score draw and a 1-1 score draw. hardly a ringing endorsement for the lisbon treaty. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, the decision is made. much as i regret that the first decision was not respected, we will have to wait and see what outgoings there will be from this decision. and it is now up to others to decide and i hope they are given the space to make that decision. i just hope that the high percentage that voted ‘yes’ in the republic of ireland do not live to regret it in the longer term. i wish to say no more about it. there is now a very heavy burden and responsibility on the shoulders of those who wish and desire an even deeper centralisation of the decision-making process here in brussels. i urge them not to get so far in front of the people that the people have no idea where they are heading or what their destiny may ultimately be. i am not anti-european, but i do want a europe content within itself and able to allow those who disagree the right to put forward an alternative view, and we do not always get that any more in this house.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate colleagues from ireland on such a fantastic result. in britain we have the ukip and the tories who, as you will all know, have been arguing for a ‘no’ vote in the irish referendum. ukip constantly tells us that we should not interfere in national matters, but they certainly interfered in the vote in ireland, there is no doubt about it. i would like to say thank you to nigel farage. i think he did a fantastic job because i understand that his interference actually helped the ‘yes’ campaign. that is what is known as unintended consequences, but we are grateful for his intervention. the tories, on the other hand, are in total disarray. they have divisions over europe and it is overshadowing their conference which is taking place this week in manchester. david cameron’s position on the lisbon treaty is quite untenable. he keeps promising that if he wins a general election he is going to have a referendum if the treaty has not been ratified by 27 member states. at best, he can be accused of dithering. at worst, i think he can be accused of being less than honest with the british people, because i do not know how he is going to do that. and just when the major issues of the day need more cooperation, not less, issues such as climate change, how we tackle the financial crisis and how we deal with rising unemployment, just then the tories have decided that britain is going to be isolated and at the margins of the eu. they would like us spectating rather than influencing. and we have heard their plans this week: how they are going to cut public services and to increase pension ages, and how they will help the wealthy by cutting inheritance tax. once again they are fighting like rats in a sack, as we say in the uk, over europe. they pretend they have changed but they clearly have not. no, they are the same old tories, still helping the privileged few at the expense of the many, still putting dogma before the interests of the british people. the people of ireland have clearly voted for a more democratic, effective and dynamic eu and the eu is now a better place to deal with the real challenges of today. the british tories now need to come clean and tell us if they are intent on putting the future of the british people in the eu at risk, with all the serious consequences that has for jobs and prosperity. so come on, mr cameron, come clean and tell us the truth.
as i have said on a previous occasion in this house, i stand before you as one keen to see a europe of cooperating nations. i have consistently opposed the federalism of the lisbon treaty and the ceding of powers from nation states. the result of the second referendum in the irish republic on the lisbon treaty changes nothing for the united kingdom. a document harmful to british national interests on 2 october 2009 is equally as harmful on 2 october 2010. ratification in poland will not change that; ratification in the czech republic will not change that; the date of the uk general election will not change that; and therefore i want to use this opportunity in this house to call for the british people to be given a referendum, just as each and every european nation should be, on the full and complete text of the lisbon treaty.
mr president, the result of the referendum in ireland at the weekend on the lisbon treaty is living proof that this parliament is not democratic, honest or accountable. but who in here really cares? well, i do. the fact that the irish were made to vote twice proves that the eu has now become a dictatorship. if the vote does not go the way of the eu dictators, then they simply vote again and again until the right result is achieved. this is not fair and is in my view morally wrong. the lisbon fanatics in this parliament will now go full steam ahead to create a new european superstate of 500 million people. the injustice is that people in my country, the united kingdom, were promised a referendum but denied one. the irony is that under the lisbon treaty there will be a full-time president. it is quite likely to be tony blair. the new president of the eu will be the head of state. you cannot have two heads of state and, since the eu takes precedence over national bodies, the eu president – perhaps tony blair – will take precedence over our queen. the people of my country will not accept an unelected failure or anybody else taking precedence over our queen. god save our queen!
mr president, i must correct mrs joly when she said that the committee on fisheries voted unanimously to reject this proposed partnership agreement with guinea. in fact it voted by just one vote to do so. quite astonishingly, the ppe group voted solidly to retain the agreement. this is an agreement which puts some hundred of thousands of euros into the hands of this regime in order that we can take tuna from the coast. like many of these agreements it is a shabby deal at the best of times, and in the present circumstances it is utterly unacceptable. the minister mentioned possible sanctions to be taken against guinea. will she now add this to her list and give us an undertaking that she will fight to try and ensure that this partnership agreement is suspended?
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the underhand and undemocratic way in which the incandescent light bulb has been banned across the european union. the initial directive handed implementing measures to the european commission, which in effect meant that the regulation was allowed to pass without the consent of this farce of an assembly or of my real parliament at westminster. the ban was a stitch-up by the political elite and was done on a nod and a wink. the people have been bypassed, but then the european union is very good at bypassing the people. just take a look at what has happened with the lisbon treaty. it was allowed to happen, unfortunately with the collusion of the british conservative party, who are the jekyll and hyde of british politics when it comes to the european issue. they say one thing in britain and they come out here and they do completely the opposite in committee. to conclude, on the eve of world war one the british foreign secretary, sir edward grey, feared that the lights would go out all over europe. well done to the european union, because, with your obsession with the unscientific cult of man-made climate change, what you are doing is proving sir edward’s unfortunate prophecy to be correct.
mr president, many in the house have today congratulated the irish people on their good sense in rejecting the appeals of nigel farage and the uk independence party and voting overwhelmingly in favour of the lisbon treaty. members should perhaps also commiserate with the british people, because we have to put up with mr farage on a daily basis. he calls a two-to-one majority in ireland a ‘victory for bully boys’. i am afraid his words are all too typical of a man who uses distortions and deceit, and sometimes downright lies, about the european union. all too often those words are unchallenged by journalists. however, hyperbole can turn to insanity. now he is comparing the campaign in ireland with the brutality of the latest elections in zimbabwe. he describes the treaty that gives every member state the right to withdraw from the union as an end of independence. nevertheless, we should be compassionate. parliament has a medical service. mr president, i invite you to ask the men in white coats to offer their services to our colleague. nonsense about europe may pour from his lips but at least they can help ensure that he does not choke on it.
author. − madam president, i would like to thank commissioner tajani for being with us this evening. this question was submitted by me on behalf of parliament’s committee on transport and tourism, as members had become very concerned over the summer months by the collapse of skyeurope airline, and approached me to take this initiative on their behalf. it is worth noting that we have had 77 airline bankruptcies in the european union since 2000 and, in the sad but likely event that some more may follow in this tough economic climate, we believe it is imperative that we use this question tonight to at least open up the debate now about how we can best protect consumers and air travellers in the european union. in the case of skyeurope, it was an airline based in slovakia. we saw passengers being left stranded at destinations, without accommodation or even a flight home. we also had the problem that many of those people were told that compensation, or even refunds, would not be possible as they had not purchased their ticket with a credit card or booked through a travel agent. these were passengers who had booked online through their own accounts, a practice that has been increasing over many years. it is not an isolated case. we saw similar scenes in my home country, the united kingdom, last year when excel airways went bankrupt, leaving over 200 000 people out of pocket, without compensation and stranded at a whole host of airports throughout europe, with it costing them even more money to find accommodation and flights home. many of these people are not regular business flyers or regular flyers like ourselves, and they do not have the financial means to deal with this sort of upheaval. they are normally from those families who spend their savings on a family holiday, only to see their hard-earned money go down the drain through little fault of their own. the status quo here is clearly not acceptable. here in the european union and the european parliament we should be proud of our record on passenger rights. we have seen the introduction of denied boarding compensation – although we know there are still issues to resolve with that. we have seen the introduction of rights to assistance and tougher laws on ticket pricing transparency, as well as tough compensation measures in the package travel directive. in fact, i believe we have covered most of the bases when it comes to consumer protection in aviation, but there is clearly a loophole here that needs to be closed. if you book a charter with a holiday company you are covered by the package travel directive. if you book with a scheduled airline you are covered by their system, but if you book online your seat only – the airline flight – then you are not covered. it is an anomaly. it is a loophole which parliament, with the assistance of the commission, is seeking to close. in this question we have also floated the idea of establishing a reserve compensation fund, but this must not be seen as a demand on our part or by the commission. we merely wish to open up the debate as to what mechanisms might be possible to help us best solve this problem, so the idea of the question is to start the dialogue with the commission in the hope that we can close this loophole and find a solution to what is a serious problem, particularly for those people who find themselves victims of an airline insolvency. i look forward to working with the commission to try and find a solution to this problem with my committee, and to hearing the views of the other members.
mr president, as expressed by martin schulz just now, from the perspective of the socialist and democrat group this is a debate which is not just about italy. i too am not an italian speaker. our group feels that media pluralism is not just an italian issue. all member states are involved, and all member states of the european union should guarantee these principles of media pluralism. this house has long been asking the commission to take action to guarantee pluralism of the media. the commission is committed to putting into place a three-step approach to define the indicators of pluralism, including a working document, an independent study and a communication. commissioner reding has not mentioned that two of these steps have already been taken. within our group we are waiting impatiently for the third step, a communication on pluralism, and for a set of legislative measures capable of guaranteeing this principle across the union – across the whole of the union and not just in italy. indeed, our perspective is based on the fact that the european union has not only been an economic and monetary union or a loose coalition of member states but a collection of values also. it is incredibly important in this debate to restate that perspective. one of these rights – freedom of information, defined by the eu charter as the right to receive and communicate information without interference from public authorities – is vital. for italy, and the particular position expressed by david sassoli from my group, this is a genuine concern; but the wider concern for the european union is a challenge for our group: for all members, including those members from italy. this is an unprecedented situation in italy, but it could be a dangerous situation for the whole of the european union, and that is the perspective of our group.
madam president, it is surely not a coincidence that last week the british conservatives won the support of rupert murdoch and yesterday they voted to suppress this debate on press freedom. while the new ex-communist member states have made great progress towards a free press, the media domination enjoyed by silvio berlusconi would have made erich honecker green with envy. but the threats, intimidation and abuse that berlusconi is directing not only at the press but also at the president and judges go far beyond a purely national issue: this is a major european concern. commissioner reding very strangely said that we should not use the eu institutions to solve national problems. so why do we have any european treaties and laws, including those on the requirement of fundamental rights and the rule of law? there is in fact a clear legal competence for the eu to act to uphold freedom of expression and fundamental rights in general. that legal basis exists and must be complemented by legislation on media diversity and pluralism. the passivity of the commissioner is deeply disappointing.
madam president, i too would like to join the calls for a european directive on freedom of information, freedom of the press and media pluralism. although this has been a debate about freedom of information in italy, as other speakers have said there are serious issues in other countries in the european union. one of these is the united kingdom. rupert murdoch has already been mentioned, and one of the reasons i believe we need this directive is because of rupert murdoch. rupert murdoch is not a head of state but he is an international media mogul with his own very particular agenda. he is not democratic and we need to legislate for the likes of rupert murdoch as well as for the likes of silvio berlusconi.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
madam president, we propose very seriously to exacerbate it. the cause of the financial crisis was excessive state intervention: first in the sense that interest rates were deliberately kept too low for too long, a political rather than a market decision – one in which all the central banks were complicit – and then in the sense that, as recently as last year, legislatures were urging lenders to make more cheap loans available. so the g-20 leaders get together and they say ‘what is the solution? more state intervention.’ i suppose, as mark twain once observed, that if all that you have is a hammer, everything starts to look like a nail. but the truth is that every action they have taken has at best been useless and at worst has actively deteriorated our situation: the bail-outs, the nationalisations, the pretence of going after tax havens (by which they in fact mean countries with more competitive tax rates than theirs), and the massive extension of state jurisdiction under the pretext of ‘contingency’. and now we want to reform the entire financial system. i will close with the words of my late countryman mr justice asprey: ‘reform? aren’t things bad enough already?’
madam president, may i congratulate you on the deft, adroit and sensitive way in which you have exercised the prerogatives of the chair. for fifty years, european trade and agricultural polices have caused preventable poverty in the third world. we have simultaneously excluded produce from countries where often agricultural export is the main generator of revenue and, rubbing in the salt, exported our own surpluses – dumped ineffectively our surpluses – on their markets. then we have tried to salve our consciences by massive aid programmes which have not served to ameliorate the conditions of those countries but, on the contrary, by breaking the distinction between representation and taxation, have served to retard democratic development across much of the world. here is one thing we could do tomorrow that would have an immediate, benign and transformative effect in the countries that we are talking about: we can abolish the common agricultural policy. the best thing is that it would not cost us a penny. on the contrary, our farmers would be better off, our countryside would be better looked after, our taxes would fall and food prices would fall, which would lower inflation and improve the situation of the world economy generally. and in case you thought i had forgotten, i have not gone soft and still think we need a referendum on the lisbon treaty: pactio olisipiensis censenda est.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amendment 7. i am pleased that services have been organised quickly to hold the vote, and i hope the funds required in italy are made available as quickly as possible to provide speedy and effective assistance.
in writing. − i welcome the positive vote releasing funding for the abruzzo earthquake victims. our reaction to natural disasters, such as the devastation we saw in italy, must go beyond the realm of politics. acting to help victims of this catastrophe rebuild their lives, homes and futures is surely something that any member of this parliament with a shred of humanity will agree on. the eu solidarity fund allows us to act as a community to alleviate misery and suffering. since it was established, the fund has been used to help people in more than half of eu member states and over 20 disasters from flooding to forest fires, drought and volcano eruptions. i also note that the people of wales have been among those to benefit from funding following the terrible floods of 2007. however, the fund’s revenues must be looked at and there is a strong case for allowing the fund to have its own resources so that other projects are not affected by the mobilisation of the fund. i hope that in some way this money can work towards the reconstruction not only of buildings but also the communities which were destroyed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the weber report on the prevention and settlement of conflicts of exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings. serious criminal activities have an increasingly cross-border nature and the eu has an important role to play in combating such activities. clearer procedures for the exchange of information in criminal proceedings will enhance cooperation between member states and improve individual nations’ abilities to combat crime. regard must always be had for fundamental rights and in my opinion the weber report improves upon the proposed framework decision.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the g-20 summit in pittsburgh. the current economic crisis is truly global in both its roots and its effects and so coordinated international action is essential to finding solutions. national governments all have a role to play in these solutions and joint action at eu level will ensure that europe can be at the forefront of driving forward global recovery. the scottish government is pushing forward a programme aimed at supporting jobs and communities, strengthening education and skills, and investing in innovation and the industries of the future. together with the other countries of europe we will be able to overcome the challenges we currently face.
in writing. − i and my labour colleagues strongly support the commitment made by the g-20 to work on a financial transaction tax. following the costs incurred by taxpayers during the crisis it is essential that we ensure the financial sector contributes fully and fairly to an improvement in public finances. the tobin tax is one model of a financial transaction tax which has been proposed. we did not support amendment 8 as we must consider all options rather than commit specifically to a ‘tobin-style’ tax. furthermore, the amendment suggests that a unilateral european form of such a tax should be considered. the financial services industry is a global industry and our efforts must remain on securing a transaction tax that is effective and workable on a global level.
in writing. − i abstained from the vote on amendment 8 on a financial transaction tax. i am in favour of such a tax, but i believe it needs to be at the global level, rather than european level, in order to be effective.
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party supported this resolution and gave support to underpinning the progress made last month in pittsburgh. without commitments to improve multi-lateral surveillance within the imf and further involvement of other economies than the current members, little effective success can be foreseen. there is much to commend this resolution and with careful thought greater progress can be expected against the problems of the financial crisis.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 11.50.)
a uachtaráin, um an dtaca seo trí bliana ó shin thug rialtas na breataine gealltanas go dtabharfaidís acht gaeilge isteach chun an ghaeilge a chosaint agus a fhorbairt i dtuaisceart na héireann. is cuid shuntasach í de phróiseas na síochána agus de phróiseas an athmhuintearais í an reachtaíocht chuí chun cearta na ngaeilgeoirí a chosaint. dá bhrí sin, ba chóir go mbeadh cosaint reachtúil ag an ghaeilge mar atá ag na teangacha dúchasacha i ndeisceart na héireann, in albain agus sa bhreatain bheag. trí bliana níos faide anonn níl an reachtaíocht sin ann go fóill. ba bhreá liom dá dtiocfadh leat, a uachtaráin, labhairt leis an fheidhmeannas cumhachtroinnte i mbéal feirste faoi thábhacht agus tionchar an ilteangachais i gcoitinne. tá sé práinneach dúinn aon bhliain déag i ndiaidh shíniú chomhaontú aoine an chéasta agus trí bliana i ndiaidh shíniú chomhaontú chill rímhinn go gcaithfí acht gaeilge a chur in áit le cearta lucht labhartha na gaeilge i dtuaisceart na héireann a normalú.
mr president, wales is currently a major beneficiary of eu funding under the 2007-2013 structural funds programme. the money is largely directed towards developing sustainable economic growth and creating jobs. west wales and the valleys receives the highest level of support under the current structural funds, and rightly so. many regard the uk as a wealthy place to live. very few people know the reality of the scale of poverty and unemployment in wales. the valleys have all but been destroyed by the closure of big industries, which at one point were the backbone of solid hardworking communities. today the mines are closed. the factories that grew up in their place are outsourcing work overseas. the communities that thrived on this employment have not just lost their jobs but also their sense of purpose and belonging. with more and more countries queuing up to join the eu, i am worried that wales will see much-needed support go to newer member countries. i urge the commission and the council to ensure that wales receives adequate funding, through a strong transitional settlement, when the current round of structural funds ceases in 2013.
mr president, last year this house debated the use of whole-body scanners at airports and subsequently the european commission withdrew its proposal in this regard. recently at manchester airport a new trial was started and legal advice has now been given that to use these machines on minors could be in breach of child safety and protection legislation because of the nature of the image produced. similar cases of this nature took place in 2005 and 2006 by the action on rights for children group, which resulted in the banning of the use of body scanners on under-18-year-olds. since the very raison d’être for these machines has now been compromised by this legal advice – and i address this directly to commissioner barrot – is it not now time that the commission ruled that the use of these types of scanner in the eu should not be allowed, since my constituents travelling anywhere in the union should not be subject to this indecent and degrading treatment? i also call for a global ban on such technology in order to protect all eu citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, our colleague mr coelho has yet again justified his middle name: carlos ‘schengen’ coelho. he is our resident expert on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and we are very grateful for his work and his expertise. he has done very good forensic reports on these proposals and they highlight what an awful muddle the european union is in regarding monitoring and evaluation. it certainly makes no sense to me that fitness to join the schengen zone should lie exclusively in the hands of the member states in any case, irrespective of any arcane split between pre- and post-schengen accession. we are told in the commission proposal for the regulation that ‘as evaluation before putting into effect is fundamental for member states in order to gain mutual trust, it seems reasonable for this to remain the responsibility of member states’. but we do not leave it to member states to evaluate the balkan countries, for which this evening the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs will vote on their fitness for visa waiver, for visa-free travel – it is the commission which does the assessment and evaluation, so there is no consistency at all in saying that it should be in the hands of the member states to judge other states. to be honest, i do not grasp this peculiar split between evaluation of ‘putting into effect’ measures necessary to join schengen, which according to the commission has to remain intergovernmental, and checking the ‘implementation’ of the schengen acquis. certainly it appears that the member states do not do a very good job because we learn from the proposal for a decision that ‘in recent years member states have not seen the need to carry out evaluations on the spot concerning judicial cooperation in criminal matters and drugs. data protection has also not always been subject to on-site evaluations.’ i think there are many people not only in this house but beyond who would think that issues to do with criminal cooperation, drugs, tackling drug smuggling and protection of privacy are rather important matters to have on-the-spot inspections about. so i entirely support the conclusions of carlos coelho that we need to bring all this together, to have a consolidation of the procedures by which this evaluation is done, to consolidate the task between the first and the third pillar – and i hope that soon the phrase ‘third pillar’ will be consigned to history and i never have to say it again – to have one simple, effective, efficient and transparent evaluation and to ensure that the transparency includes accountability to the european parliament. it is most strange that at juncture, on the eve of what i am now convinced will be the ratification of the lisbon treaty – and i did my bit in the uk house of lords last year, by the way – the commission should put forward this extremely muddled and senseless set of proposals. i support the rejection and i request the commission to come back with a better proposal that takes account of the lisbon treaty, takes account of codecision, takes account of simplicity and effectiveness in monitoring and is consistent with the commission’s and parliament’s responsibilities in other areas. it begs the whole question of the way peer review is done in this european union of the 27 member states. as i say, that bears looking at, including in the human rights area, because we do not seem to have any clear principles and structures and simply adopt different things in different areas. much as i love the member states, i am afraid they often adopt a practice of ‘i’ll scratch your back and you scratch mine’, which means they do not criticise each other, so actually they are not good people to evaluate each other. the commission, when it works at its best, is the one to do it. as i have a few seconds left i would like to challenge mr bradbourn from the ecr group on an issue of free movement. he called for a global ban on so-called ‘naked body scanners’. it would have helped if he had been at the vote last year when his colleagues opposed a ban on the use of these body scanners without a fundamental review of human rights. his colleagues voted against that ban. mr bradbourn was not even present at the vote, so it is a bit rich for him to go on about it now.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, it is not very often that i find myself agreeing with something said by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. they are saying that these proposals on the evaluation mechanisms and on the schengen acquis are pointless because, after the lisbon treaty is fully ratified, they will be changed anyway. after the lisbon treaty comes into force, the first and third of the so-called three pillars of different policy areas will be consolidated into one. the implementation of lisbon will no doubt see attempts to use it as a tool to apply the schengen acquis across all the member states, including those currently exempted, which includes the united kingdom. you will notice that i said ‘when the lisbon treaty is implemented’ and not ‘if’. it seems that the one head of state holding out against it, the valiant president václav klaus of the czech republic, will be browbeaten into giving his consent shortly. britain’s own traitorous labour government has reneged on its promise to give the british people a referendum on lisbon and the one person who could hold out the hope of a referendum, david cameron, does not have the courage, principle or inclination to do so. the uk has a completely uncontrolled, unlimited and chaotic immigration and asylum system. as a member state of the european union we no longer control our own borders and under lisbon the tidal wave of immigration that we have experienced will become a tsunami. so this report will make no difference whatsoever to anything and the comments made by the committee and the parliament will be ignored by the commission. i have heard the words ‘freedom, liberty and justice’ bandied around in this debate. what freedom is there when the citizens are not consulted on their new constitution under the lisbon treaty because they would reject it? what liberty is there in laws made by undemocratic institutions that cannot be removed by the voter? what justice is there when, under the european arrest warrants, national courts have been stripped of their powers to protect their own citizens from unjust arrest and imprisonment? this union is an orwellian creation where words mean the opposite of what is said.
mr president, i always thought being an mep was a waste of time, but this really takes the biscuit here this evening. we are here talking about something that does not really matter, because the lisbon treaty – which you know you have bullied your way through – is going to come into force within the next month or so and we are going to have to debate this again. so here we are, wasting our time, thank you very, very much. let us take a critical look at the schengen agreement and what that has actually meant for europe: it has allowed criminals, people traffickers and drug dealers to travel across thousands of miles unaided; it has allowed camps such as sangatte and the jungle to develop on the other side of the english channel, with people living in deplorable conditions. i hope you are proud of yourself. you would be aware of the 1951 convention on refugees that says that a refugee should claim asylum in the first safe country – but you disregard that. you disregard international law and you purport to be a responsible legal personality, as lisbon would make you. come on, pull the other one: this place is a joke! the people of the united kingdom want to control its own borders; it has had enough of being ruled by you. i leave you with this warning: the british people are a just, tolerant and trusting people, but when you push us too far, we fight back. and when we fight back, we win.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i should like to thank the commissioner for coming here today to update us on these issues in some detail. we appreciate the manner in which he has done that. like mr busuttil, i want to set out an explanation – which is a joint explanation – of our serious concern about the significant delays in migration from sis to sis ii and the development of vis. i think you will understand why we tabled a joint resolution, because there is a genuine concern here. mr coelho and others have been making this concern known for some time and it is worth putting on record that, while these significant delays are obviously highly worrying on their own, the key issues here for parliament, as you know, are those of transparency and accountability, particularly when we are dealing with sensitive data, and sensitive data in this area. as co-legislator and the eu’s only directly elected institution, parliament needs to be kept informed about the developments of these systems, as it has requested many times in the past. in our resolution we do not want to be seen to be making unreasonable demands. we want to be reasonable, and we want to respond to the way in which you have given us the information today. we simply want to be informed of the current state of play, to be given explanations about the reasons for delay, and to be reassured that these problems will be resolved. it is vital that a project as important as this, which will have an impact on vast numbers of people – both eu and non-eu citizens – is developed transparently. however, in addition to the issues of transparency and accountability, it is also important to point out some of the wider implications. the technical problems we are seeing, and the development of these large-scale databases, do not inspire wider confidence. many of our member states – including my own member state – have had significant difficulties in their own development of major databases, in development of id databases and so on. public confidence in these systems is absolutely vital. therefore we certainly have to look jointly across the political parties to see how these problems arose, how they can be prevented in the future, at the planning stage rather than the development stage. lessons have to be learned; we have to have confidence in these systems and, above all, we have to have full and effective oversight. in the end these systems will only work through technical cooperation – but also through that public confidence in this system and the fact that parliament is seen to be scrutinising these matters openly and with some results at the end of the day.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i have never had so much speaking time in one evening in all my 10 years in the european parliament! ten minutes in total is an unaccustomed luxury, and i am not sure i will be able to use it. i too am grateful to vice-president barrot for coming to report to us on the problems, although i feel we should not have had to keep asking for those updates. anyone who has the merest familiarity with the installation of large it works in the public sector in their own member state will know that all these technical and budgetary problems frequently arise. unfortunately, however, when you have two such high-profile, big systems – the schengen information system (sis) ii and the visa information system (vis) – being affected, this also affects the credibility not only of the union’s internal security – and i will come back to that later – but also of the eu’s visa policy. as rapporteur on the vis i can say that we were under pressure to get the legislation done in time, because we wanted to press ahead with having the vis up-and-running – as it should have been by now – and any slippage in the programme is deeply disappointing. i would like to ask commissioner barrot what the implications are going to be for visa applicants. are we going to end up with a lot of confused people, because the vis is destined to deal with 20 million visa applications a year and delays presumably have a knock-on effect? and what about the outsourcing arrangements which are being established? you mentioned that there have been contractual penalties imposed owing to the delays in the visa information system. could you tell us what those penalties are? what are the estimated extra costs envisaged? and could you tell us, commissioner barrot, whether overall you have continued confidence in the contractor, or are we looking at a potential cancellation of the contract? this presumably also has implications for the setting-up of the agency for the common management of the sis and vis – and, potentially, other databases in the future. perhaps some of the ambitions for the collection of data and large-scale surveillance systems might have to be looked at again, which would be no bad thing from the privacy point of view if we are going to have all these technical and infrastructure problems. the last thing i wanted to ask the commissioner is this: the current estimate is that the sis ii will be in operation in the last quarter of 2011. we can, i guess, expect some further slippage. in the summer of 2012, the olympics are being held in london. the uk government did not take the opportunity to go into sis i for reasons best known to itself. it actually had quite a few years when it could have gone into sis i but said ‘oh no, no we will wait till sis ii’. in answers to me, the government has said that it is not worried about any implications for security. however, not only uk but also european security could be put at risk if the uk does not participate in access to the policing side – which it is allowed to do – of the schengen information system, by a time well ahead of the london olympics taking place in 2012. could you tell us, commissioner barrot, what you think the implications could be for security around the olympics, which, especially as they are being held in london, and not least in my constituency, i am concerned greatly about? i think we would all be greatly worried about the security of the olympics. those are a few of the questions i would like to ask you. thank you again for coming here.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, as ecr signatory to the joint motion, i am very pleased we are now engaged in this debate. it is of vital importance that we in the european parliament call the commission to account when we are discussing matters involved with the spending of substantial sums of european taxpayers’ money. it is correct that there is a special interest from the general public in such a sensitive area that relates to data protection and exchange. there have been numerous problems and delays, meaning that the new system has still not begun operation. indeed there are now doubts over the viability of the project. i would like to ask the commission why there have been such delays and overspending. what action is being taken to address the shortcomings? we would like to see full transparency as regards the implementation process as well as concerning the financial aspects to which i have referred. as our resolution states, the united kingdom – not, of course, as a full member of schengen at this time – along with a number of other member states, will not want to be part of this system until a solution has been found. i would also like to ask what action has been taken against contractors to secure some damages. we would like the commission and council to respond to the questions asking them to give an explanation of the grounds for continuing to have confidence in the current contractor and in its ability to successfully take the systems forward. in fact, is there a future for this project or should we now be rethinking the whole initiative? as commissioner barrot has said, some states are delaying, but without confidence you could hardly blame them. the european parliament must be kept constantly informed on the state of play of the deployment of these systems. i look forward to reading the commission’s response to the questions my colleagues and i have raised.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl – a uachtaráin, caithfimid tacú leis na tíortha i mbéal forbartha iad féin a chur in oiriúint maidir le hathrú aeráide – feiniméan nach bhfuil siad féin freagrach as ach fulaingíonn siad go díréireach mar thoradh air. níl na hacmhainní ag na tíortha atá i mbéal forbartha le dul i ngleic le hathrú aeráide mar atá againn san eoraip. agus sinn ag tabhairt aghaidhe ar chaibidlíocht na náisiún aontaithe i gcóbanhávan, is é atá de dhíth orainn ná dlúthpháirtíocht atá fíor agus praiticiúil. ní mór an dlúthpháirtíocht sin a léiriú trí thacaíocht airgeadais agus theicniúil. ní mór ach oiread go mbeadh an tacaíocht sin mar bhreis ar ár gcúnamh forbartha coigríche. níor chóir dúinn an ní a thugaimid le lámh amháin a bhaint leis an lámh eile. ní mór ról rannpháirtíochta iomláine a bheith ag na tíortha pé meicníochtaí airgeadais atá ann chun an tacaíocht airgeadais seo a dháileadh. is é ceann de na gnéithe is tábhachtaí ar chóir duinn a úsáid mar shlat tomhais maidir le margadh ar bith i gcóbanhávan ná breathnú ar an tslí a gcabhraíonn sé leis an domhan i mbéal forbartha dul i ngleic le dúshlán an athraithe aeráide. beidh cabhair shuntasach le dul i ngleic le dífhoraoisiú mar shampla ríthábhachtach i gcomhaontú cuimsitheach. gan dlúthpháirtíocht airgeadais agus aistriú teicneolaíochta ní fheicfimid an dul chun cinn atá de dhíth orainn uile. níl amhras ar bith ann go bhfuil an t-athrú aeráide ag géarú. ní féidir a thuilleadh ama a chur amú. is é an toradh a bheidh ar athrú aeráid, mura dtéitear i ngleic leis, ná tubaistí ar fud an domhain. ba chóir go dtabharfadh an cúlú eacnamaíochta misneach dúinn aistriú níos gasta a dhéanamh i dtreo geilleagair ghlais. níor chóir go n-athródh ár gcur chuige eolaíoch. níor chóir dúinn cúlú ón misneach agus ón toil pholaitiúil a léiríomar go dtí seo. caithfidh gníomhartha a dhéanfar ag leibhéal idirnáisiúnta a bheith uaillmhianach agus sáite i réadúlacht eolaíoch ár n-aimsire féin agus caithfimid bogadh ar aghaidh agus an tuiscint a bheith againn nach iad na tíortha i mbéal forbartha a chruthaigh an fhadhb sin. muidne a chruthaigh é.
mr president, there are two overriding themes in this place: first, concern with the growing gulf between the political elite and the ordinary taxpayers. second, a hysterical obsession with man-made global warming. these two themes are intimately linked. the global-warming fixation is a classic example of how the political class here is out of touch with the little people who have to pay the bills. while the eu backs the copenhagen proposals to further the deindustrialisation of the west and the corporate domination of the third world, a growing majority of ordinary people regard climate change as an elite scam – an excuse to tax and control us and to impose internationalist dogma and global government at the expense of the nation state. can you not see the danger in this growing gulf? it is time to look at the facts. man-made global warming is an unproven theory based on manipulative statistics. the so-called consensus on the issue is the product not of debate but of the suppression of expert dissent. before the political class and the green industrial complex dare to impose a single new tax, poisoned light bulb or useless wind farm on the ordinary taxpayer, they need to try to convince the public that global warming is man-made, that returning to the warmer climate of medieval times would be a bad thing and that there is something that europe – as opposed to the united states, china and india – can actually do about it. either hold a debate and close the gap between you and the people, or do not complain when we nationalists – the ones who listen to the people – close it for you.
mr president, it is critical for an international consensus to be reached on tackling climate change and global warming. the copenhagen summit provides us with an opportunity. but let us think for a moment of the problems facing this summit. the us, the world’s biggest economy, has failed to agree to specific greenhouse gas emission reductions for 2020, and many other developed industrialised nations are uncertain as to whether the ambitious actions required are possible. let us be clear: we really have no choice. the eu, in setting ambitious targets for 2020 and 2050, has acted courageously and must now urge others to do the same. we cannot meet our targets without cooperation from other states. the establishment of an effective global carbon market is crucial, as is international consensus if we are to avoid the risk of protectionist measures relating to co2 emissions within the eu. at copenhagen we must encourage courageous leadership from the national governments of large industrialised nations. although individual states in the us have begun to tackle climate change, there is a woeful lack of leadership from the federal government. we need the us and emerging economies such as india and china, to form a partnership with us for the future of our planet. we can encourage developing nations to follow a different, less environmentally damaging path of industrialisation. they still have time to take a fresh approach that will be less environmentally damaging, and we must help them in the planning and building of the infrastructure which will achieve this.
mr president, i take this opportunity of wishing well the east european cities in the coming of the very early skiing season, with the snow and ice that have come there. of course this is indicative of the fact that, as independent science has now confirmed, the globe is actually cooling and has been cooling since 2002, and temperatures have been broadly flat since 1998. so we are all talking here about something which is not happening. time and time again i have heard members here talk of co2 as a pollutant. a pollutant! it is a life-giving natural gas. it gives me the impression that some of our members have not had the benefit of a formal education. isn’t this really just about the state being able to get its hand in ordinary people’s trouser pockets to steal yet more tax from them? isn’t this all about political control? isn’t this all about politics and big business? the whole thing is a sham – this bogus hypothesis, this ridiculous nonsense that man-made co2 is causing global warming. enough please, before we damage irrevocably the global economy.
mr president, i do not think godfrey bloom heard the bnp speaker, but if he had he would have seen that they have so much in common, as i always suspected. it was almost a carbon copy speech. we heard something about polling. in fact, in a recent survey more than two thirds of europeans said that climate change was a very serious issue, and 20% said it was a fairly serious issue. for the uk that same figure was 51% saying it was a very serious issue and 30% a fairly serious issue. that is 81%. in fact, only 10% of europeans said it was not a serious issue at all. the opinion polls show that people in europe do care about climate change and they do understand. that is why all the mainstream parties in this house are backing the council and the commission in copenhagen and why we backed the legislative package last year. last night in the environment committee, members voted by 55 to 1 to back an ambitious negotiating position of the european union in copenhagen. on the financing side, which is extremely important this week – and we know the finance ministers are meeting today – we want funds, additionality, no double counting and good governance structures. sometimes in life you see things you never forget. about three years ago fiona hall and i went to northern kenya. we went to one of the poorest communities and met pastoralist farmers there. we met young women – girls – who were being married at ever younger ages in northern kenya. why? because when a young woman gets married in kenya, in return for her hand in marriage, her father receives cows in payment because cows are the currency. cows are becoming a rare commodity in northern kenya because of climate change. we will never make poverty history unless we tackle climate change, and this house has a duty to respond to that call.
madam president, the climate change conference in copenhagen in december presents us with a unique opportunity to address this massive and huge problem. if we consider the consequences of global warming, it is obvious that the developing world is paying the price for environmental damage caused by the richer nations. climate change is not the only environmental problem we face but it is imperative that we attempt to address it in copenhagen. it is the opportunity for the eu to speak with one voice and find solutions to a problem which is affecting us all. all countries must play their part in terms of achieving targets and sustainable development. the developing world must be supported and encouraged, but the targets set for these nations must be realistic. i know that there are others who hold a different view from the one that i hold, but i do not believe that we can afford to wait 50, 60 or 70 years to find out who was right or who was wrong. we have a responsibility today to act now to do what we can while we are here.
madam president, what a relief that they have stopped burning heretics or i would be well and truly alight by now. i am, though, glowing hot in my opposition to the concept of man-made climate change. carbon dioxide accounts for only 0.038% of our atmosphere and only 4% of that is influenced by man’s activity. it is a vital and irreplaceable food for plant life. the more plants receive, the faster they grow. a shortage of this gas will be far more serious than a surplus. the alarmist and incorrect statements that suggest any increase in carbon dioxide will create significant rises in sea levels is being used as an excuse by local authorities not to maintain low-cost wooden sea defences. when these inevitably rot, after 40 years’ service, nothing is done to repair them and homes are lost. this is creating an aura of despair among coastal communities. if computer predictions cannot forecast the weather properly in the short term, they have no place whatsoever in predicting long-term changes.
madam president, i will keep my co2 emissions down and i will be brief. commissioner, it is good to see you in place. presidency, it is good to see you here. talk of 2020 or 2050 is not good enough. we need agreement and achievement now because climate change is placing poverty reduction at risk. we are seeing the diversion of oda budgets away from development. that is unacceptable and puts at risk the millennium development goals, which must be achieved. at copenhagen we will see 27 countries acting as one to achieve ambitious targets. we have heard the climate change deniers here in this house. let me just say this: there is talk of plants and co2; there is deforestation and desertification. this means that in some places there is no water. there are no trees. climate change kills. it is as simple as that. let us be clear – member states should maintain their 0.7% of gni for development and cap any use of that gni at 10% maximum, and then bring in the additional funds needed to combat and defeat climate change.
madam president, i am concerned that the commission’s calculations on international climate finance are just smoke and mirrors. first, it has claimed that 90% of energy efficiency measures can be financed by developing countries themselves. that is eur 30 billion per annum. in the eu the biggest obstacle to introducing energy efficiency measures for both governments and for individual citizens is the lack of upfront financing. why does the commission believe that developing countries can finance efficiency measures without upfront funding when eu member states themselves have struggled to do so? also, the idea that the international carbon market can fund eur 38 billion a year is unrealistic. we have seen how slow the eu ets carbon market has been to get off the ground and how badly the carbon price has been thrown off course by the economic crisis. it is likely to be many decades before there is a properly functioning international carbon market, so we need a new and additional financing measure now.
madam president, we talk a lot about the melting of the ice caps, but as well as the arctic and the antarctic there is also the ‘third pole’: the himalayan ice cap and its glaciers which give water to some two billion people – almost a third of the world’s population – in china, india and elsewhere on the subcontinent. these glaciers are retreating fast because of black carbon coming largely from industrialisation, but also from fossil-fuel-powered generators in use in agriculture, and will deprive billions of people of water for both drinking and irrigation. the european union needs to recognise that help is going to be needed to improve the quality of the machinery that is being used, and to cut down its polluting impact. i believe this should be put on the agenda for copenhagen, but it should also be put on the agenda for the forthcoming european union summit with india and other summits with the countries affected. unless we help them, we will not be able to prevent the melting of the himalayan glaciers or serious water-provision problems for a third of humankind.
madam president, the evidence is not that rising levels of co2 lead to temperature rises, but that the causal connection is the other way round; but of course we must not let facts get in the way of a good story. however, let us accept for the moment that man-made emissions are a bad thing for various reasons. why, then, does the british labour party support aggressive and illegal wars that not only kill british soldiers, iraqis, afghans and, in the future, iranians, but also produce vast increases in global emissions?
madam president, there has been much talk in this chamber this morning about developing countries playing their part in tackling climate change, and that is indeed true. like many others, i would draw attention to the fact that, in order for this to happen in regions of great poverty, this house, the council and the commission will have to take cognisance of the cost involved and there will have to be a strategy in order to tackle this. however, i would not like to leave this house without saying that, in areas like my own in northern ireland, areas of high energy costs, there also needs to be some work done to take account of those who are disadvantaged – where there are high levels of fuel poverty amongst disadvantaged people, where we have an economic base which relies on small business – when considering the costs of tackling climate change.
in writing. − ukip meps abstained because we do not believe that the european union should be responsible for sending taxpayers’ money to the victims of the italian earthquake. we have every sympathy with those victims and believe that such donations should come from national governments or charities.
vice-chair of the s&d group. – unemployment could rise to 27 million in the european union next year, turning this financial and economic crisis into a social crisis. in the light of this, would you now agree that the economic recovery plan agreed last december was not enough in itself? in particular, would you agree that there is a need for a further stimulus – the etuc has suggested 1% of gdp – aimed at a positive entry strategy into the labour market that would be aimed at protecting viable employment and creating new jobs, in promoting intelligent work sharing? what will you do at eu level to promote jobs in the green and youth sectors? it has been suggested, for example, that a single strategic platform should be created at a level to bring together all key actors to work together on growth, innovation and jobs in each sector and to coordinate existing instruments such as technology platforms, skills expert panels and joint technology initiatives. would you agree that it would be a good idea for that to be implemented at european level?
vice-chair of the s&d group. – i will indeed work on those member states. just coming back to this idea of the level market entry strategy, would you agree that spending aimed at effectively reducing unemployment should not be seen as an additional burden on public finances but as a way to guarantee sustainability?
co-chair of the efd group. – mr barroso, it is very good to see you here. a chance to hold the executive to account surely must be welcomed. as you know, i have not always been one of your biggest supporters, but i have to concede you have done very well. you have managed to ignore the french referendum result, you have managed to ignore the dutch referendum result and you have managed to bully the irish into submission the second time around. so you have almost got your treaty. now, of course, it is time to pick the president – the big global figurehead of the european union. tony blair is the odds-on favourite with the bookmakers. i just wondered whether you agree with me that his continued support for britain to join the euro, his surrender of gbp 2 billion a year of the british rebate and his whole approach towards britain’s membership of the european union – his refusal to give the british a referendum – all show that he has sufficient pro-european credentials to become the president? indeed, was this the deal that i predicted back in 2005? was this agreed all along?
co-chair of the efd group. – mr barroso, i am disappointed. it is question time, and a ‘yes’ or a ‘no’ would have been easier, but never mind. whether it is mr blair or not, the fact is he will not be democratically elected; you yourself have not been democratically elected; in fact, doesn’t this rather sum up the whole eu? isn’t a rather wonderful organisation for giving retired, clapped-out ex-premiers some real executive power? you could have democratised the eu with this treaty. you chose not to. does national democracy matter, or is the european union, in your opinion, a greater good?
as we know, hundreds of thousands of people are losing their jobs in the current economic crisis and many of these are older people who are at a severe disadvantage when they try to get new jobs. even though the 2000 employment directive should be adhered to in each member state, many of those older workers still do not know what their rights are under this directive, and many member states are flouting the rules. even if some workers do know their rights, all too often they find it impossible to take action individually without any back-up. at present we do not yet have legislation to protect many people against discrimination in access to goods and services, but we do have the employment directive. can you tell us what action is being taken against member states who do not implement it properly, and what mechanisms could be put in place to help older and disabled workers to achieve their rights?
every single european country is united, in that we all face rising unemployment, which is obviously not just a social crisis, but also puts extra burdens on member states’ public purses, with rising welfare costs, falling taxes and increased training. given this, would you agree, mr barroso, that we, as members of this parliament, and the commission should be extra cautious with every penny that we add onto public sector burdens? if you do agree, firstly, how would you advise us to vote in the budget debate on thursday? secondly, why do we keep meeting in strasbourg?
hitherto the creation of wealth and the measure of well being have been based largely on consumption, and so industry has been encouraged to pay little attention to the real value of raw materials used, even if their price is low, or to the real cost of waste produced. how does your commission intend to ensure that growth in future will be of a different nature and that we will not find ourselves in a situation where, after another 20 years of growth, we have a planet unable to sustain what we are doing and a society unable to afford the real costs of living in such a way?
mr barroso, the financial crisis in the uk is very serious. one of the many sectors struggling is the agricultural sector. from 1 january 2010, things are set to get a lot worse with the introduction of eid, which is ‘electronic identification of sheep’. the equipment used to scan the sheep is not accurate. i have been told it is only 79% accurate. if you drive your car, mr barroso, down the road, and the brakes only work 79% of the time, you will no doubt at some point crash. i fear that the agricultural sheep sector is likely also to crash with the introduction of eid, with its flawed equipment. the bizarre situation is that if eid comes into force in january we will know how many sheep we have in the uk, where they are and all their movements, yet in the uk – due to unlimited immigration – we have no idea of how many people we have in our country, or who they are or what movements they will make. will you, mr barroso, speak to the rest of the commission and only introduce eid on a voluntary basis until the equipment used is 100% accurate?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i will be focusing my comments on the commission budget and i would like to congratulate mr surján for everything he has done as the general rapporteur but, in the absence of the coordinator of our group, mr bokros, who happens to be in hungary for a long-term engagement that he was committed to, i am asked to present the group’s position today. i understand that this is the third different group that i have presented views for in this house since i have been a member – not that i have changed, just the groups have. so the three points i would like to make in the debate today are as follows. firstly, the general situation is a serious one, which has already been indicated in a financial and economic manner. our deficit levels are at historic highs in several member states, as the president of the council has indicated. indeed, in some member states the debate is not about where the money is going to be contributed but about the levels of cuts which will be needed to bring the expenditure back into line, as it is in my own country. therefore this is a very mixed debate on how we are going to make sure we can make the european union run effectively. but here we will be looking at the budget. in terms of the budget that we will be preparing for 2010, it is a budget which obviously is at the beginning. we are in our opening gambits but in our group we will be looking very clearly at the quality of expenditure – as the commissioner has said on expenditure where monies can be reasonably executed and not being in any way excessive in this regard because of the general situation we find ourselves in. my last comment relates to the comments made by our chair in the committee on budgets, alain lamassoure. we must use this occasion – it is the first year of a five-year parliament – to look ahead. we must discover, if we can, from the commission when we are going to get the mid-term review, how it will be shaped, how we are going to be able to look ahead, not just to the mid-term review but how we are going to approach future financial perspectives, as mr böge laid out in his report in the last parliament. not least, how we begin to set in train an interinstitutional process that will look at long-term trends and that will enable us to get the right budgetary analysis, because without that it is really difficult to plan ahead.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, it is unbelievable that in these times of financial and economic crisis, the european commission proposes an increase of almost 5% for the 2010 budget. but what is worse is that, while the council at its first reading in july put forward a reduction of almost 2% on the preliminary draft budget, this parliament is now proposing an increase of 5% on it. the 2010 budget would then end up being over eur 127 billion in payment appropriations which equates to 1.08% of the eu’s gross national income. is this the way this parliament wants to bring the budget closer to the citizens? it is all very nice to want to subsidise the special olympics in poland and greece and the european youth olympic winter festival in the czech republic, or even xacobeo 2010, but our constituents have other priorities in their lives, such as paying their mortgages and giving a reasonable education to their children. the daily cost of the european union for the united kingdom currently amounts to gbp 45 million per day and the proposed increase will bring it to gbp 50 million or more with the reduction of the rebate. believe me, there are many other priorities in the uk to invest this money in, and now that the european commission has warned that britain is in danger of going bust due to its high level of national debt, this country would be happy to have a significant reduction on its eu contributions, and i am sure that other countries would also be happy with a similar reduction. year after year the court of auditors has been unable to give us satisfaction that the eu budget has been legally and regularly spent, and i was really concerned at the lack of control over taxpayers’ money when i was the chief accountant of the european commission back in 2002. but still parliament wants to put more money into the eu coffers. do not count on me ever to vote in favour of any increase in the budget. if you want to subsidise projects to fight the crisis, you should find areas where the budget can be reduced.
madam president, during the economic and financial crisis, wales benefited from cohesion policy and structural funds under headings 1a and 1b. so, although the recovery plan was welcome and indeed necessary, we must not now cut important lines under heading 1 to fund the gbp 1.98 billion required. i fear that may happen and i also fear that the proposals to do so are part of a wider attack on cohesion policy. i refer to the budget review paper produced by the budget dg, which was referred to by mr lamassoure earlier. i understand this includes the possibility of renationalising convergence funding, watering down competitiveness and saying ‘no’ to transitional status for regions coming out of convergence. i think members should resist all this. indeed, i would welcome the views of the commission on these proposals, because these proposals would damage cohesion policy and damage places like wales and similar regions.
mr president, democratisation assists the peaceful pursuit of politics, political change and the management of power in society, as well as respect for human rights. supporting democracy underpins our foreign policy goals of preventing conflict and reducing poverty. that is why i was pleased to put the parliamentary amendment calling for european consensus on democratisation, and i would like to congratulate the swedish presidency for its initiative in this respect. i strongly believe that democratisation should inform all of the european union’s policies vis-à-vis third countries. i have to say that i condemn the european conservative and reform group when they oppose paragraph 10 in our text and seem to suggest that europe can say one thing about democracy and do another about undemocratic countries when it suits us. no. finally, as mrs malmström has said, democracy-building is much more than about elections: it is about building pluralist civil society. that is why europe should fund ngos that increase citizen participation, support the inclusion of marginalised groups, provide training for legal professionals, promote freedom of expression and of association, and strengthen political parties in parliament. it means supporting a civilian surge.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, could i too thank the commissioner for coming here tonight to further explain the powers she seeks. commissioner, could i first of all thank you for responding positively to the resolution agreed with this house on 27 september. i welcome the moves you have taken to try and stabilise what is a very serious situation for dairy farmers. i also welcome the eur 280 million that you have announced for restructuring. in terms of the first part of your proposal, the question we all have to ask today is: why are we being asked to approve urgency measures at this late stage, and will they assist market recovery? because clearly, as you said in your speech, the green shoots of recovery are already starting to show. i am not convinced that the proposed quota changes will make a great deal of difference but, as they are voluntary on member states, this group will certainly not oppose them being granted. turning to the proposal on widening the scope of article 186 to include milk and milk products, in my experience, ministers – or in this case commissioners – usually come to parliaments asking for powers so they can take action to solve a problem. tonight we seem to be being asked to grant the powers to the commission without first being told exactly what action they will be used to address. as i understand from your contribution early on, you did mention that you needed this extra power as a legal basis to pay out the eur 280 million. i would be grateful if you could clarify whether that is the case. is that why you require the powers? because the great concern we all have is that we may well be handing over a blank cheque to the commission. commissioner, you said you had been financially plucked of your last feather, so, if you have other ideas for action you might take, clearly there is not much financial scope to do anything at all significant. our group will only grant these powers if they are time limited and they are constrained to extreme circumstances.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all i would like to say that i certainly welcome this decision, and i think the debate last night in the committee and tonight in plenary allows us to bring more clarity to the situation. the reality, and i think the cause of the frustration that many dairy farmers feel, is that while they have seen to some extent what mr lyon referred to as the green shoots emerging, this money has not passed through into their bank accounts yet. so this does create a degree of frustration for the dairy farmers. many have been under financial pressure for a long time. it is a good and useful thing that we can talk, because i do now accept the need for article 186 to be brought into place so that we can get this money direct to the producers as fast as we possibly can. i think that is the challenge. i like mr deß’s idea of an amendment, and if he puts it forward i think i would like to support that amendment for a limit of two or even three years to get this job done. however, i remain unconvinced by the buy-out scheme. we must do this to protect the industry.
mr president, like the majority of members of this house, i voted today to support the urgent procedure in relation to article 186. any financial aid to the dairy sector is imperative to its survival, especially the survival of small family farms as we find in northern ireland. if, as you say, madam commissioner, you need the changes to article 186 to trigger the eur 280 million fund, then it will have my broad support. we can only hope that the money is paid and distributed quickly. many farmers have waited too long to have the aid that is required. i am, however, underwhelmed by the proposals concerning articles 65 to 84. it is almost certain that these will not impact on the uk, and i have a number of questions surrounding them, particularly in that i feel it will create an uneven playing field between the regions of europe and it seems contradictory in the light of the commission’s current policy.
mr president, the dairy industry is in crisis, and i want to record my thanks here and compliment the commissioner on her very timely actions, which i think were precisely right. i think eur 280 million is a realistic sum and will be welcome within the industry. i am persuaded that it will be necessary to grant powers under article 186 in order to deliver this benefit in a timely manner to the producers, so it has my support. it has my support, although i prefer that we limit this concession until 2013 at the latest. with regard to the national quota buy-back scheme, which i note will include powers to raise super levy from producers exceeding quota, i have reservations. i think it is penalising the efficient and progressive producers – often the young men, the young people who are the very future lifeblood of our industry – and i think it is sending all the wrong messages. we live in a very volatile marketplace, and what this industry needs is not short-term reactions but long-term strategy. i have been a long-time supporter of the commissioner for her long-term vision for the future of the industry, and i would encourage her to go down that path, which is long-term strategy, not short-term reaction.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i first of all congratulate the swedish government on its presidency in general and particularly on the way it has attempted to advance the very important issues of climate change and dealing with the economic and financial crisis that faces us. i think mr reinfeldt and his government deserve our thanks for the way they have done this but, as has been the situation in many presidencies, they have also had to accommodate a lot of internal institutional distractions – in this case in relation to the lisbon treaty. institutional theology is not the priority of the citizens of europe. what we need, of course, is the lisbon agenda, not the lisbon treaty. the lisbon agenda has a noble objective: an objective of creating the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs, greater social cohesion and respect for the environment by 2010. now that should have made a real difference in the lives of millions of people and provided a firm foundation for our economic future and yet, as mr reinfeldt himself said, the lisbon agenda has been a failure. why can we never actually get results that matter to our citizens? the laudable aims in the laeken declaration were not then put into practice, and now the lisbon agenda faces the same lack of purpose and achievement. so near, mr president, but so far, and again initiatives relating to the economies of member states must be clearly understandable to ordinary people. job creation should not be about creating jobs for former prime ministers to be president of the council, or for globetrotting aficionados to be high representatives for foreign affairs. those two jobs will hardly help hard-pressed small and medium-sized businesses in any of our countries. they will not ease the crisis being borne by millions of families right now. and institutional changes do not help with climate changes. the greatest threats to our world need confronting, and practical and workable solutions need to be found. thousands of pages of text, most of it too complicated for our citizens ever to understand, simply consumes the trees that we need to protect. let us put pressure on the world community to come together to save the planet for future generations, not on those who do not fully share the enthusiasm of some people for the european institutions. despite all this, i do hope that the swedish presidency is able, in the time remaining to it, and indeed at the summit, to focus the attention of all european leaders on the major issues that concern the people – those issues they concentrated upon at the start of their presidency regarding the economy, europe and indeed climate change. i wish them well in the remaining time and thank them for their work so far.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, mr barroso said this morning that all member states had democratically ratified this treaty. that is not true. the british people have not had a say on this, despite being promised it, and until we get a referendum on this i will refuse to recognise the legitimacy of this treaty. (protests)now all eyes are on president klaus and what he may or may not do next week, and it is interesting. i know that you all hate president klaus because he believes in national democracy. (protests)but what he is doing here is that he is standing up and defending the czech national interest. he fears german claims over sudeten properties and, having listened to german politicians on this subject, i think he is absolutely right to be fearful. so, hang on, president klaus; if they do not give you what you want, do not sign the thing. if they do give you what you want, it will need to be reratified in 25 member states, which will mean that the british will have a referendum, and i am sure, as democrats, you would all like to see a british referendum on this treaty. i certainly would. and i wonder, at the end of this summit, are we really going to have a new european emperor? is it going to be tony blair with his empress cherie? well i have reached the conclusion that i want tony blair. please do appoint tony blair, the man that gave away gbp 2 billion of the british rebate in return for nothing; the man who promised us a referendum on the constitution and refused to give it to us. it is perfectly clear that, in this european union, the prize for national betrayal is a high one indeed. so please appoint tony blair. it will bring home the truth to the british people that it is not the elected representatives that matter in this european union, it is people that give away national democracy in favour of the european union that win the top jobs. please, please, give us tony blair as the first president of europe.
mr president, it is disappointing – but not unexpected – that the council and the commission are determined to push ahead with the lisbon treaty. i know that it might not be popular in this house, but it is my genuinely-held belief that in the united kingdom there should be a referendum on the treaty. i do not understand why both conservatives and labour are unwilling to give that. however, this morning i want to direct your attention, minister, in particular, to the financial crisis that continues to dog europe. last night mr mervyn king, governor of the bank of england, indicated that uk lending to the banks was close to gbp 1 trillion. indeed, he indicated that never before had so much money been owed by so few to so many people and with so little real reform. mr king went further to indicate that regulation of the banks was not enough, but that there was a moral dilemma at the heart of this banking crisis in that financial and banking institutions knew that they were too big to fail and that the taxpayer, whether in the united kingdom or in any of the other regions of europe, would always have to help them out, no matter what the crisis. this is a very serious charge, minister, and comes from one of the banking world’s own leading members. there must be a will to tackle this moral dilemma at council meetings, and this house would be interested to know what that will is and how it will be done.
mr president, the big problem for the member states is, as mr bisky said earlier, the crisis in jobs. youth unemployment is 24% in france, 25% in italy, 39% in spain. nevertheless, we can be sure that the european council meeting will be saturated with a colossal triumphalism in the context of mass unemployment. this triumphalism is improper and distasteful, and it will be there because the elite assume that they have got their lisbon treaty. all the moves so far towards your european superstate have taken place by stealth or manipulation and, in the case of the lisbon treaty, the manipulation has been so shameless and so blatant that the treaty lacks democratic legitimacy. from that, there will be consequences. to quote, ‘they are ringing the bells now; very soon they will be wringing their hands.’
mr president, there will be many important issues discussed at the european council, but from my point of view one of the most important is the future of the lisbon treaty. many speakers in this debate have spoken, without any apparent irony at all, of the lisbon treaty bringing increased democracy and accountability to the eu institutions, forgetting that they deliberately took a view that there should be no democracy or accountability in the progress of that treaty itself. there was active collusion between the heads of government to avoid any referenda taking place on the treaty lest the people were inconvenient enough to actually say they did not want it. i listened with great interest to mr barroso’s comments earlier. let me explain to him why people in the uk are so angry about this. in the 2005 uk general election, all three main political parties committed themselves in their manifestos to a referendum on the european constitution, as it then was. it subsequently became the lisbon treaty, effectively the same document. in the vote in the house of commons two of those parties then reneged on those promises and refused people a referendum, so it is a matter of basic trust and accountability in politics. people want the referendum that they were promised. if they had not been promised it, then mr barroso’s comments would have been correct and there would have been the normal parliamentary ratification process in the uk. i supported mr barroso in his re-election, but we do not need lectures from him about trust and accountability in politics when, at the same time, he seeks to support those who would deny people a referendum. so that, in short, is why people in the uk feel so strongly about this referendum. they look over the water to ireland and see that the people of ireland have been asked to vote twice on the document when we have been denied the possibility to even vote once. you cannot, on the one hand, argue that it will bring increased democracy and accountability to the eu whilst, at the same time, denying the electorates of the eu any say whatsoever on this document.
mr brok, you mentioned 10 years of debates about the lisbon treaty. has it occurred to you that, in the 10 years of debates, you and your colleagues have simply failed to convince enough people, and that is why you and your colleagues have had to resort to the blatant manipulation to which i referred earlier to get the treaty through?
mr president, the swedish presidency and the commission both refer to the importance of an eu agreement on the financing of climate change measures for developing countries. i agree. but the offer on the table from the commission is a smoke-and-mirrors proposal which developing counties have every reason to question. mr barroso said just now that the carbon market in emerging countries will cover most of the eur 100 billion a year estimated cost of climate change mitigation and adaptation. but there is no certainty that the international carbon market will deliver eur 38 billion a year in financial flow to developing countries. we have seen how unstable the carbon price has been in the eu ets and how long it is taking for a proper carbon market to emerge. a further major flaw is the assumption that developing and emerging countries will be happy to fund their own energy efficiency measures. that is absurd. what is blocking energy efficiency in our own member states is the lack of up-front funding mechanisms, yet we are assuming that developing countries can find their own money. we need to have extra finance.
in writing. – there is fevered speculation that tony blair may be appointed the first president of the european union under the lisbon treaty/european constitution. nearly thirty-eight thousand people have signed a europe-wide petition opposing his presidency. it is easy to understand why. as prime minister of britain mr blair has shown himself to be a liar and a fantasist. on a relatively modest prime minister’s salary he has mysteriously managed to become a multi-millionaire. in the mps expenses scandal now engulfing the house of commons only one mp’s expense records have unaccountably gone missing. they are mr blair’s. i share the revulsion of those opposed to mr blair’s presidency. but who in fact would make a better presidential candidate than mr blair for this union founded as it is on deceit, lies and corruption? mr blair brought britain to the edge of ruin. he could do the same for the eu. the eu and tony blair deserve each other.
mr president, the european union claims to embrace fine principles about freedom and democracy, and they are all restated and reinforced in the lisbon treaty, but time and again we turn a blind eye to blatant transgressions taking place in one member state or another. we do not point the finger at those who fail to support the principles upon which the european union is based. we do not like to rock the boat, but we had the chance today to take a stand and to say that control of the press by the italian prime minister is a clear abuse. there are problems in other member states, but in italy it is at its worst. thanks to the votes of the uk independence party and the british conservatives, we lost today by one vote: there was one vote in it. the conservatives in britain say they want to repatriate social and employment policy from the european union. they do not say that they also want to prevent the european union having any role whatsoever in standing up for the basic freedoms that support democracy across europe.
mr president, it reflects no credit on this house that the whole of our agenda today, the whole of our vote, should have been taken up with a matter that ought never to have come to the floor. it lies beyond the purview of this parliament and is within the prerogatives of one of our member states. i hold no particular brief for silvio berlusconi. i am delighted that the british conservatives no longer sit with his party in the european people’s party, but i cannot have been alone in being put off by the pharisaical self-righteousness that we have heard from the other side during this debate. they complained about mr berlusconi having immunity from prosecution without mentioning that they, as meps, have a similar immunity. they complain about his domination of the media, without mentioning the tens of millions of euros of public money that this parliament spends on promoting itself. this resolution, and the fact that it came before us at all today, reflects no credit on anyone – no credit on the italians, who took to this chamber an argument that they had lost in their own nation state, and no credit on the rest of us for presuming to get involved. such issues ought to be properly determined through the national democratic mechanisms and procedures of the italian republic. let me repeat my call for the lisbon treaty to be put to a vote. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, i think all of us in this chamber are concerned about media pluralism. we all want to see greater media pluralism right across the eu. i have concerns about media pluralism in a number of member states. i have concerns about media pluralism in a number of countries outside the eu, but about which the socialists often never raise this issue, for example cuba and north korea. the socialists keep rather quiet about media pluralism in these countries. but there is a very important principle here. the rolling stones once said ‘you can’t always get what you want’, and when you can’t get what you what, what you do is rely on the democratic process in your country to persuade the people to remove the government you do not support. you do not decide to go to the european parliament and try to get democratic decisions overturned there. this is a principle that the conservatives hold dear, and this is why i am proud that the european conservative and reformist group played its part in voting down this despicable resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution, and strongly support calls to prevent media monopolies operating in europe. freedom of information is a hugely important issue, and given the strength of feeling and close vote, i hope it is an issue we will return to. i was disappointed that after the amendments were rejected we were unable to pass the final resolution.
in writing. − by voting in favour of the joint resolution tabled by the s&d, alde, greens and gue i feel i have shown my support for freedom of the media in italy. as an elected representative, i believe it is my role to support moves to prevent an over-controlling media presence, not only in italy but across european member states. i believe monopolisation of the media to be dangerous and think it is necessary to push for greater freedom in the media across europe. european citizens should not be subject to media censorship and selective news coverage.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the commission is quite correct to say that the service ought to combine all the instruments and assets that are required for the conduct of an active foreign policy across the globe. it is crucial that all the partners in this great project begin to trust each other and the service, including the most populous and imperious states. it is crucial for the foreign office in the uk to send their top people to the service rather than their discards. i agree fully that, for the sake of parliamentary scrutiny and financial control, the service ought to be attached to the commission, for administrative and budgetary purposes. i have to say to the council that it is not acceptable that the service is placed in the same class as the economic and social committee or the ombudsman as part of the financial regulation. i think that this brok report has been a practical preparatory stage of the process of setting up the external action service but i also believe that we should pause now before we go further and settle important questions before the high representative vice-president is in place. for parliament it is crucial that we have a political interlocutor to negotiate the establishment and future programme of the external action service, so, please, states – bring us your people for all these posts.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i want to express my disappointment that yet again this parliament is considering a report that pre-empts the ratification of the lisbon treaty. i wonder whether we would be having this debate today if the german constitutional court were still considering the treaty. i suspect not, and i ask why the czech republic is treated differently. as the english author, george orwell, might have observed, all member states are equal, but some are more equal than others. i want to speak against the setting-up of a european diplomatic college. at a time when all member states face huge budgetary pressures, the eu should show restraint. we should act as guardians of the public purse. our aim should be to spend public money prudently and endeavour to return money to the member states and the taxpayers we represent, when we can. this proposal is uncosted. it is another example of how some members of this chamber are all too eager to make grand gestures with other people’s money. a european diplomatic college is a waste of money and would become another burden on the taxpayer. i wish to remind colleagues that any common position on foreign policy would be determined by the member states represented in the council, not by the commission, and certainly not by this parliament. any additional staff the eeas requires should be seconded from the member states, and they require no separate training. the policy that they will represent to the world will be that of the council of ministers, not some independent european policy. a diplomatic college would only become necessary if the eu were to take control of foreign affairs away from the member states. i hope that day never comes and i will do my utmost to prevent it. (the speaker agreed to take a question under rule 149(8).)
mr president, could i ask the speaker if, should he be disappointed and the treaty actually finds itself in force, he would support the appointment of mr chris patten as the high representative?
mr president, i am very grateful to be asked my opinion, but i rather doubt that it will be my decision.
mr president, this report tries to put our minds at rest about the service but, to my mind, it does exactly the opposite. it claims, on the one hand, that the service complements member state diplomacy and does not call it into question. however, the rest of the report, in my view, flatly contradicts that assurance. paragraph 4 says that the service – that means its powers – cannot be circumscribed or predetermined in advance. paragraph 8(d) suggests that delegations, which are part of the service, might take over consular services from member states. it is clear that this service is intended – not in the short term but in the long term – to take over and replace diplomatic representation of member states, perhaps in the end even the vetoes of the united kingdom and france on the un security council. when you hear an eu body giving an assurance that they will not do such and such, you have a pretty good clue as to what they are up to. with apologies to mr shakespeare, methinks the report doth protest too much. who or what will actually exercise any control over this body? not, i think, the council. that has to act unanimously. if it cannot decide, the service will simply be carrying on with its own agenda. what about the parliament? no, that is limited to consultation. this body will conduct foreign policy over the heads of member states with no effective control by member states or the european parliament. national governments will be reduced to the status of a parish council.
mr president, as the union seeks a broader role in international affairs, it arguably should have the tools to project our common values throughout the world, providing, of course, there is unanimity in all 27 member states. but how will that role develop? where will its limits be? we in the ecr group believe, as an anti-federalist body, that foreign policy must ultimately remain the preserve of our individual member states. it is therefore of concern to us that the lisbon treaty, if it becomes law, appears to set in train a series of developments that could end up undermining that prerogative. the proposed european external action service must complement and not compete with or undermine member states’ bilateral diplomatic activity and must draw its authority mainly from the council and not from the commission. parliament must exercise its rights to scrutinise the eeas and shape its budget. given that there is much talk about eu embassies in the brok report, i would like the commission once again to repeat the assurances it gave me a year ago that eeas missions or delegations will not be called embassies. to call these missions embassies would compound the fear that the eu is seeking all the trappings of a sovereign state.
mr president, this brok report is positive proof of the emergence of a single european union superstate. the wicked lisbon constitution already forces an unelected president and foreign minister on us all. now this report adds a new european diplomatic service, the so-called european external action service, but embassies represent national interests. so what national interests will these new eu diplomats and embassies represent? they will not be those of our nation states, our trade or our companies. they will be those of the european commission. all other national embassies will become redundant. already, british embassies around the world are selling off properties. this master plan for an eu superstate is built on foundations of deceit, dishonesty and denial, but federalists are not creating a new united states of america. they are creating a new yugoslavia. by forcing very different nations, cultures and economies together under a rigid, undemocratic soviet-style bureaucracy, you are entering very dangerous waters indeed. i worked for the british government on the northern ireland peace process. i saw what happened when democracy fails. it is not pretty. now i see democracy failing here in europe. you profess to love peace but, by railroading through lisbon and by this power grab of our embassies, you are putting europe firmly back on the road towards war once again.
mr preda, in your speech you used the phrase ‘a common european culture’. do you regard the admission of turkey into the european union as being fully compatible with the common european culture to which you alluded?
mr president, i want to support a strong external action service with geographic desks covering the whole world, responsibility for the european security and defence policy, and combining council and commission functions on planning, conflict prevention and crisis management. but i do want to agree with mrs malmström that this is not prejudiced by retaining responsibility for trade development and enlargement in the commission, which is why i have collaborated with my colleague, mr gualtieri on an amendment to paragraph 6(c) supporting bringing together eu development policy programming and implementation. the critics should understand that there are problems in the existing system. a high representative with no direct responsibility to us in parliament, duplication of functions between council and commission, splits between eu special representative and commission heads of delegation, human rights sometimes ignored for trade and geopolitical interests, etc. this major reform of the lisbon treaty has to be made to work and will do so. finally, to mrs ferrero-waldner, i know she will be containing her excitement following the intervention of the uk independence party and she understands that british embassies are not up for sale.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, on behalf of the alde group i strongly welcome the fact that this resolution calls for a strengthened strategic partnership between the eu and the us as a cornerstone of eu external policy. it also rightly reiterates the role of an integrated transatlantic market by 2015. we must not let the trees of myriad disagreements on specific issues obscure the wood of an overwhelming interest in common values and objectives, and action on promotion of democracy and human rights, resolution of conflicts and protection against security threats among others. on the economic side, the alde group has emphasised the need to avoid regulatory arbitrage in the financial sector and to address issues such as ‘too big to fail’ institutions. we have put in an amendment to paragraph 39 since, as far as i can see, there simply was no g2 leaders’ agreement to work on a financial transaction or tobin tax so it is absurd to welcome such an agreement, even if we have already done so, erroneously, in the g20 resolution. the alde group also calls for deletion of paragraph 38, which appears to seek the abolition of intellectual property rights. but, as mrs malmström has explained, a large part of the transatlantic relationship relates to justice and security matters. the alde group fully supports close cooperation in this area but it must respect fundamental rights, including privacy, and be progressed within a democratic and transparent framework. in that respect it is a pity that meps have not been consulted on the joint statement to be agreed next week – especially as, with the lisbon treaty, almost all of these matters come within codecision. it is puzzling why the commission and council are promoting a new agreement on access to swift financial data on eu citizens when the mutual legal assistance agreement allows for specific requests. i would like an answer on that. finally, it is a pity that the new context of justice and extradition cooperation nonetheless permits the completely unjustified extradition from the uk of gary mckinnon, a computer hacker who has asperger’s syndrome, rather than his being prosecuted in the uk. very finally, i fully support what commissioner ferrero-waldner said about visa-free travel for all eu citizens and we are very critical of a ‘visa lite’ fee for the esta.
madam president, i agree with those speakers who said we have a real opportunity in front of us with a new us administration in place. three quick points. firstly, we seem to have evolved into a situation where we have a huge number of subjects which are discussed between the eu and the us, but no strategic dialogue, and yet they tell me in washington that the us and china have a much greater strategic dialogue than between us across the atlantic. is it not time at this summit to say that we want a strategic dialogue for a strategic partnership? secondly, regarding the point on protectionism on the tec, it is quite clear that the biggest danger in the next 12 months is closing markets rather than opening ones, and yet we have the transatlantic market which is, as mr brok said, the biggest opportunity we have for generating growth on both sides of the atlantic. is it not time to make the transatlantic market a major part of trade development, rather than putting it to one side as a regulatory issue? it is actually a major opener. lastly, it is disappointing that we have no study and no road map as promised by mr verheugen. the study was paid for by parliament. if you want parliament to cooperate on saying how we now need to see how to open markets, please release this report, as the resolution says, by 15 november.
madam president, the ecr group is strongly atlanticist and seeks ever closer economic, trade and political ties with america, which we consider to be the eu’s foremost ally and not competitor. we also remain in debt to the usa for its contribution to nato, which is based on our shared democratic values, and we welcome america’s belated commitment to fighting climate change. however, we should not pretend to agree on everything. i am concerned for instance about the conflicting messages coming out of the us administration regarding russia. washington’s emphasis on resetting us-russia relations appears to excuse the kremlin’s blatant interference in its neighbours’ affairs, notably in georgia and in ukraine. the scrapping of the us missile defence shield, due to be deployed in poland and the czech republic, was also questionable. the recent discovery of a secret nuclear facility in iran could well confirm this judgement, but we must now all redouble our efforts to curb iran’s nuclear ambitions and, as allies of the us, we strongly support their military struggle against jihadi terrorism in iraq and afghanistan and their strong efforts to bring lasting peace to the middle east.
madam president, i have a couple of points. it is difficult to see how we can fit all of the resolution that we have set out on the tec into the tec. it is a very small operation, as we know. i will be there next tuesday, commissioner. i look forward to seeing you, along with mr brok and other parliamentarians, an issue i will come back to at the end. we do, however, have key issues which can be raised in the tec and can be dealt with as they are sufficiently upstream, to borrow your words, commissioner. financial services, for example, which are appropriate to deal with because the outcomes are very closely discussed and are near agreement – not just in g20 but ongoing discussions that we have in the parliament and with the commission and with the americans. in particular, accounting remains one of these aspects within the reach of policymakers and legislators. adoption of high-quality global standards for accounting by 2011 is something which needs to be concluded quickly on the us side. on insurance, too, solvency ii has helped to set global regulation – one which needs an answer, frankly, from the us side – and i thank chairman kanjorski in the us congress for the work he has done on the federal office of information. finally, let me just say, on the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue, that congress and parliament need to step up their game in this area. we do not want to follow the administration and the commission, as most people in this house would agree. we want to be amongst the leaders for change. we need to be the impetus for this change. tec needs our support, but the tld needs to be at the heart of the discussion – not just on the side and not just as advisers, but very much part of the central aspect of this whole transatlantic relationship.
i have received six motions for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 22 october 2009. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time (b7-0212/2009). the following questions are addressed to the council.
i am sorry but your speaking time is 30 seconds, and the question is about human rights in cuba.
i would be grateful if members would abide by the rules of question time, which involve giving a supplementary question of 30 seconds and keeping to the subject of the stated question.
i would say that seems to go a little beyond the title of the question, but i leave it to the minister whether she wishes to deal with it or not.
question 3 by olle schmidt (h-0310/09) subject: swedish journalist dawit isaak imprisoned in eritrea according to reports in the swedish media, swedish citizen dawit isaak, imprisoned in eritrea since 2001, has been transferred to a new prison in eritrea. no-one, apparently, has left this prison alive. dawit isaak has been held in prison under appalling conditions by a rogue regime for almost eight years without being informed why he was so brutally thrown into prison, and separated from his family, friends and work. so far, all attempts to have dawit isaak freed have been unsuccessful. the eu should do more. isaak is also an eu citizen. if nothing is done, there is a risk that isaak will die without either sweden or the eu managing to persuade the eritrean president even to discuss his case seriously. what does the swedish presidency intend to do to raise the case of dawit isaak at the highest eu level? is it reasonable for eritrea to receive aid from the eu when that country is so flagrantly violating fundamental human rights?
there are no other supplementaries on that question, so we will move on to the next question.
i want to bring the minister’s attention to the fact that in scotland, the constituency which i represent, a debate on a minimum pricing of alcohol products is currently happening. i wanted to take this opportunity to ask the minister whether there is any discussion in the council over the issue of minimum pricing of alcohol products. there is a big debate happening in scotland and i was wondering what the council’s perspective is, and whether it is discussing this at all.
question 5 by justas vincas paleckis (h-0316/09) subject: environmental aspect of gas pipelines in the european union, much attention is being paid to the environmental aspects of the new pipelines being constructed to transport gas to the eu (nabucco, nord stream and south stream). the nord stream gas pipeline, which runs along the floor of the baltic sea, is an exceptional project on account of its size and its potential environmental impact on the baltic region. in the opinion of the swedish presidency, what dangers does the construction of gas pipelines pose to the environment, and what measures can be taken to eliminate those dangers?
question 6 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0318/09) subject: elimination of barriers to the free movement of labour between member states the swedish presidency of the council has recognised that, in the current economic crisis, the key priority is that member states must be able to respond jointly to challenges and find solutions for overcoming the economic and financial crisis and, above all, reducing unemployment and its adverse social consequences. the barriers to the free movement of workers from the member states which joined the union on or after 1 may 2004 are limiting the rights of those countries' citizens and could result in clandestine employment and social dumping. to remove those barriers means protecting migrant workers on the same basis as nationals. given the swedish presidency's commitment to an active policy for the eu labour market and to improving adaptability and mobility, can the council state what concrete measures it has in mind with a view to eliminating the barriers to the free movement of workers from the member states which joined the union on or after 1 may 2004?
question 7 by nikolaos chountis (h-0319/09) subject: harassment by turkey of aircraft operated by the european union agency for external border security (frontex) since may 2009, six incidents have been recorded in which aircraft operated by the european union agency for external border security (frontex) have been subjected to harassment, either by turkish aircraft or through radio communications. the most recent incident occurred on 8 september 2009 when a frontex helicopter flown by two latvian pilots was en route from the island of kos to samos. while flying over the island of farmakonisi, the helicopter received radio interference from turkish radar at datça, demanding that it withdraw from the area and submit a flight plan. is the council aware of this incident? what are its comments? what measures will it take against turkey?
mrs morvai, you indicated you wanted the floor again. if it is for a supplementary on this issue for 30 seconds you have the floor.
if you have a question, you should submit it in the normal way in writing and then it may, if it is appropriate, be answered. there are many members who want questions answered tonight and out of respect for them we would like to conduct this in an orderly manner. (question 8 fell as the questioner was absent.)
thank you very much for that point of information. that concludes question time.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to bring the house away from lifts and back to vaccines which prevent deaths. i think that is exactly what we should be focusing on. of course i support the call that we have heard relating to the a (h1n1) virus but i want to look much wider: in fact, commissioner, there are systems that work, and vaccines do work. look at pneumococcal disease. it is a bacterial infection that causes pneumonia, meningitis and sepsis, and is relatively unknown despite its deadly status as the leading vaccine-preventable killer of children under five worldwide. pneumococcal bacteria are the leading cause of pneumonia, which takes the lives of two million children every year. this is a global health challenge with solutions. it might interest you to know that the commission and many member states have already made pledges to support immunisation in the world’s poorest countries by supporting gavi, the international finance facility for immunisation, and the pneumococcal advance market commitment (amc), something you did not mention. but we can and we must do more to prioritise pneumococcal disease within existing health and development efforts and to work with developing countries to do the same. the pneumococcal amc offers an unprecedented opportunity for countries to protect their children from this preventable killer. yet the sad fact is that, of the 71 countries that are eligible, fewer than 20 have applied for amc funding that will save so many lives. i would remind the house that expanded access to essential vaccines is a key lever to achieving millennium development goal 4: a two-thirds reduction in child mortality by 2015. we must make sure that we put these vaccines in the hands of countries that need them most. it is a simple step that will quite simply save millions of children’s lives. there is before this house a written declaration on this matter, including the pooling of patents. i urge members to sign this and do something that matters.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, moldova is europe’s poorest country and is also landlocked, but has recently had a successful democratic election. the new parliament must now wisely choose its president. however, it would undoubtedly be more prosperous and secure if it did not suffer from an artificial territorial division. very little progress has been made towards a resolution of the frozen conflict in transnistria – a problem which goes back some 17 years. this is largely because russia bankrolls the illegal regime in tiraspol and continues to garrison troops in transnistria. we can usually judge russia’s sincerity by its degree of commitment to resolving conflicts like this one, but the fact is that in transnistria, as well as in georgia and ukraine, russia cannot resist interfering. russia maintains that moldova, as a former soviet republic, is in its sphere of influence. such concepts are outdated. moldova, as a manifestly sovereign and european country, could one day join nato and even the eu. the eu must redouble efforts now to resolve outstanding issues in moldova and give it the appropriate financial assistance it requires, but this will not happen by naively resetting relations with the kremlin.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the commission statement on the report of the independent international fact-finding mission on the conflict in georgia.
mr landsbergis, it appears that there are only speakers on behalf of the groups, and you already have a speaker on behalf of the ppe group. however, what i can offer you is to take you under the catch-the-eye procedure.
madam president, although it is factually correct that president saakashvili did indeed launch an attack on south ossetia in 2008, this was only after provocation including severe economic sanctions and a build-up of russian troops in the occupied territories. the report does not seem in my view to fully reflect the fact of the disproportionate response by russian forces, which involved bombing civilian areas of georgia like gori and allowed systematic ethnic cleansing of georgians from south ossetia and the occupation of georgian territory by abkhazian forces. saakashvili, in my view, was indeed intemperate in seeking to regain control of sovereign georgian territory, and made a terrible political mistake – though it was, after all, georgian sovereign territory. however, russia now is determined illegally to establish a sphere of influence in other countries in its neighbourhood, the so-called ‘near abroad’, which are of course sovereign territories which should be respected in international law.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 10.55 and resumed at 11.05.)
mr president, this is just to be helpful. some of us have been hearing different numbers being called. so that we avoid any misunderstandings, can we pay attention to the screen up here? just in case there are any problems with us hearing or with communication. i am not blaming anyone, but let us be clear and watch the screen.
mr president, i rise very quickly and on a point of order. you said a few minutes ago that you were bound by the rules, and what can you do when you are bound by the rules? i fully understand that, and so does the house. can i assume, and can we assume, that you will be bound by the rules of this house for your whole term of office? because your predecessor felt he was not bound by the rules, and on the basis of explanations of vote he tore the rule book up because he did not feel bound by it. i leave it with you, sir.
mr president, i would first of all like to apologise to colleagues for this intervention, but i wonder if someone could explain what ‘cmo’ actually stands for.
mr president, at a time when the national governments are having to trim their budgets and when all our constituents are having to make savings in their household budgets, how typical that the european union, uniquely, should presume to be substantially increasing its budget. this is going to have immediate and tangible fiscal consequences in the member states. in my own nation, for example, our budget contributions will rise by 60% over the next 12 months. to put that in context, my last party conference saw our party pledging to make annual savings of gbp 7 billion a year across the whole of government spending. we are spending twice that simply on this one item of our gross contributions to the eu budget. you can disguise it as stimulus spending and a reaction to the credit crunch and all the rest of it, but you know that is not true. what we are actually doing is taking money out of people’s private pockets or purses and spending it on their behalf through bureaucracies. if that had been the more efficient way of allocating resources, we would have lost the cold war. we now see the truth, which is that the core function of the eu is the employment of its own employees, which is why its budget always rises.
mr president, i would like to make it clear that i supported draft amendments 732 and 733 and it is a pity that this house did not support them. i welcome any measure that prevents the funding of family planning programmes which will involve a course of abortion programmes and forced sterilisations. furthermore, the mandating of those receiving funding to actively combat sex-selective gender imbalance for babies born in certain asian countries is to be welcomed. this amendment would have given the opportunity for the eu to back up its words of condemnation with positive action and to deny support for such schemes.
mr president, the french philosopher rené descartes famously conjectured that all our senses might be being manipulated by a malicious demon. sometimes when i listen to these reports i get the impression that we are inhabiting that cartesian universe, a world in which the european union stands only for the values of democracy and freedom and justice and extends its values through trade accords, rather than war. and then, back in the real world, what is the european union doing? it is cosying up to the tyrants in beijing and isolating taiwan. it is refusing to talk to the anti-castro dissidents in cuba. it is trying to jolly the ayatollahs out of their nuclear ambitions. it is the chief paymaster of hamas-controlled palestine. there is no connection between this report about spreading democracy and the actual behaviour of our institutions. i do not say that the european union is hypocritical because of course we apply the same standards within our own borders, happily swatting aside referendum results when we deem them to have gone the wrong way. externally, as well as domestically, we disdain representative government and we are contemptuous of the democratic will. let me repeat that the lisbon treaty should be put to a referendum. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, i do not think anyone can disagree with the need to promote and support democracy throughout the world, and outside the eu as well as within the eu. however, if you look back at lessons from history, i remember when the united states used to go and promote democracy around the world and people would say, ‘what about your own backyard, what about the african-americans who cannot vote or who are denied the ability to vote?’ years ago britain and other colonial masters used to say to the colonies ‘let us spread democracy’, yet denied the vote to women. now you look at what the eu is doing. the eu is talking about spreading democracy across the eu, and my colleague mr hannan has already given many details of such hypocrisy. but there is one thing that we should remember. when we talk about spreading democracy, let us make sure we have our own house in order. when the french and the dutch voted ‘no’ in the referendum on the constitutional treaty we said we would have a period of reflection, and then we ignored the votes. when the irish voted ‘no’ first time round, we said ‘oh, tell you what, we agree with democracy but only if you vote the right way. we will give you another chance.’ it is time we put our own house in order.
mr president, once again i find myself having to remind colleagues that the european constitution or lisbon treaty is not technically in force. every clause, every article of the brok report is based on that treaty already having justiciability, which of course it does not. i have to say there is something a little bit suspicious about having held back this report until the irish referendum was safely in the bag and all the votes counted, and then suddenly coming out with a proposal to have eu embassies around the world answerable to this house and a single european diplomatic corps. of course we all know the reality that an eu foreign policy exists de facto if not de jure. we have delegations around the world, which dwarf any of the national missions; we have, in all but name, eu ambassadors; and now once again we see that a report is belatedly regularising what had become practice over many years in the european union. so now, when we object, we are told there is no point in complaining now because this has been common practice for many years. thus do european policies go from being unthinkable to inevitable without any intervening stage.
mr president, i would like to thank everyone for their patience and i include all the interpreters, who do a wonderful job. we all agree on the importance of the eu-us relationship and i think we all welcome the summits and discussions at the tec level and the various other transatlantic dialogues. but it really is important that we recognise that the whole world looks at these summits and look at the moral leadership that we can offer, not only at eu level but also the us administration. surely one of the best ways of stimulating our economies, particularly in this time of crisis, is to make sure that we really live the word when we talk about open trade. i have been very disturbed when we look at our common agricultural policy, and we seem to be supplementing our common agricultural policy and increasing protectionism, which does great harm to farmers in the developing world. also, if you look at the obama administration and its recent tariffs on chinese tyres, we are descending into a spiral of protectionism. it is about time we went back to our principle of open trade to stimulate the world economy.
in writing. − ukip members voted in favour of these amendments fundamentally because we oppose any increase in the budget and because the limitation in the use of these budget lines, as proposed by the ecr, may result in a reduction in payments out of the budget. however,we wish to emphasis also that eu-money, which is amply funded by the british taxpayer, should not be used to impose policies, such as coercive abortion, on minority- and other populations, which are suffering under anti-democratic regimes. such use is against the law in the uk. it is also against the law in other client-states of the eu, and in contravention of the universal declaration on human rights of the united nations, to which the uk is a signatory, and against the european convention on human rights, to which the uk is also a signatory. whether or not the sum involved runs into millions, the local populations affected would have been justified in associating the ukip with the tyranny of their own governments, if the ukip-delegation had voted against these amendments.
in writing. − british conservatives continue to believe in better value and greater accountability within the european parliament budget. however, once again the parliament has sought to greatly increase the budget beyond that set by the council of ministers. therefore, conservatives have voted to decrease many areas of eu spending. we continue to support areas where the eu adds value, such as research into new technologies, access to information for eu citizens, the european ombudsman and the court of auditors. however, we have also voted against a large number of other budget lines which are unjustified and wasteful in a time when we should all be showing economic prudence. specifically, we have voted against funding for the committee of the regions, and we have supported moves to scrap some of the most profligate budget lines such as tobacco subsidies, as well as a number of other lines regarding agricultural subsidies and schemes, and waste in administration.
in writing. − the ecr group believe in better value and greater accountability within the european parliament budget. however, once again the parliament has sought to greatly increase the budget beyond that set by the council of ministers. therefore, the ecr have voted to decrease many areas of eu spending. we continue to support areas where the eu adds value, such as research into new technologies, access to information for eu citizens, the european ombudsman and the court of auditors. however, we have also voted against a large number of other budget lines which are unjustified and wasteful in a time when we should all be showing economic prudence. specifically, we have voted against funding for the committee of the regions, and have supported moves to reduce some of the most profligate budget lines regarding agricultural subsidies and schemes, and waste in administration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of these changes to the single cmo because i believe that the €280 million package is realistic and will be positively received by the dairy industry. i am therefore persuaded that it will be necessary to grant temporary powers to the management committee under article 186 in order to deliver this support. however, i believe that the commission should enjoy these powers for only a maximum of two years in order to ensure the smooth delivery of this package. i cannot, however, support the national milk quota buy-back scheme that the commission also proposed and which included plans to raise a superlevy on producers exceeding quota. we should not be penalising the efficient, who are the future of the industry. this package is a short-term measure to address a short-term solution, yet the industry needs a clear long-term strategy for the future.
mr president, the story of guinea-conakry follows a depressingly familiar african script: a dictatorial ruler; a military coup; one authoritarian regime replaced by another; and most of the people still living in abject poverty. substantial mineral and oil resources could make guinea one of africa’s most prosperous nations. instead, the wealth fuels conflict and misery, not only in guinea, but throughout a region that has witnessed appalling bloodshed and chronic instability in the past 20 years. in the past i have pressed the european commission to help develop a kind of kimberley process for resources other than just diamonds to ensure that the activities of mining companies do not support civil war or ruthless dictators such as captain camara in guinea. i am therefore especially concerned about the massive deal struck between guinea and chinese companies, and i hope that the commission and council will express to beijing our expectations that its business activities there should neither provoke internal strife nor further undermine human rights in guinea. however, like mr kasoulides, i suspect the proposals to rescind the eu fisheries agreement will only serve to punish local communities, not the military junta.
author. − mr president, while we sit in this chamber having grand debates, the hangmen in iran are working overtime. as we heard from tunne kelam, yesterday they hanged another five people, including a young woman, the parents of whose victim had pardoned her. so she had actually been excused the death penalty but was subsequently hanged. but we follow a policy of appeasement in the eu. only this week we have agreed that we will encourage the russians to enrich the nuclear fuel rods, on behalf of ahmadinejad, in return for his guarantee that he will stop his own nuclear enrichment programme. but he has not given that guarantee, nor has he given open access for inspectors to look at his nuclear facilities. we are only bolstering the mullahs when we continue this policy of appeasement. we need to take tough sanctions. toughness is the only language these mullahs understand.
author. − mr president, the people of sri lanka – sinhalese and particularly the tamils – have suffered enormously over these past 30 years from a ruthless terrorist campaign conducted by the ltte. now that the ltte have been defeated in the field, the government and people of sri lanka need our sympathetic understanding and, above all, our assistance as they try to set their country once more on the path of recovery and prosperity and prevent any resurgence of terrorism. there are those, including ltte apologists, who want to deliver a further blow to the sri lankan people by undermining the gsp+ preferential trade arrangements with the eu. i hope the commission understands that it is trade not aid that offers the best route to economic recovery. for its part, the sri lankan authorities need to address the concerns expressed by friends in the international community so there is no excuse for gsp+ status to be compromised. the immediate priority, of course, is to resettle those thousands of tamil civilians caught up in the conflict and now being held in poor conditions in camps. their processing needs to take place with all urgency, and the international community should be invited to help.
mr president, as a representative of london, a city that has repeatedly been a target for terrorists in the past 40 years, i have a great deal of sympathy with sri lankans of all ethnicities. the relentless terrorist campaign waged by the tamil tigers severely blighted the development of that beautiful country. president rajapaksa came to power democratically, determined to defeat the ltte, and his success should be congratulated by all of us who despise terrorism. the government now has the responsibility of building a post-conflict society with liberty, justice and equality for all sri lankans. returning the idps home and trying the war criminals must now be the government’s priority. while i concede that president rajapaksa may have lost some international goodwill through some of his emergency actions in the immediate aftermath of the conflict, i am convinced that the best way forward is to guarantee the development of a secure and prosperous sri lanka and support its democratically-elected leader and government. the eu must maintain the gsp+ trade agreements which, if removed, will directly destroy one million jobs and indirectly economically impact on 2.5 million innocent sri lankan citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i first congratulate the swedish presidency on progress at the recent summit in developing the european union’s position on climate change. tackling climate change is one of our highest priorities and is the kind of issue where we expect and want the european union to take a strong lead. the balanced and measured agreement on financing arrangements is very welcome and places the union in a strong position as we work towards copenhagen. but i must mention the debate that now seems to dominate europe’s agenda: the appointments of the president of the european council and the high representative. we should start by defining clearly their scope and nature, and then we should establish the qualities and experience of the people needed to fill them. surely it is logical for the european council to invite formal nominations and to hear candidates, perhaps including mr verhofstadt, ahead of the decision. instead, the discussion is degenerating into a shabby debate between government leaders who appear only to be interested in sharing out jobs amongst themselves, be it from small or large countries, north, south, east, west, left or right, and not whether someone is actually the best candidate to take the responsibilities. what is worse, some have even tried to divide the european union into two classes of citizenship by saying that only individuals coming from a member state in the schengen area and in the eurozone should be eligible. that, i am afraid, is discrimination which is unacceptable, and this on a day of history when we remember all those who have fallen in warfare and in a week when we have remembered the horrors of kristallnacht and the tragic events which followed and where we have celebrated the achievement of all those who contributed to the fall of communism, in poland, where it began, in hungary, in the baltic states, in countries throughout eastern and central europe and, of course, ultimately in berlin. it is right to fight for freedom and values for all, not big jobs for the lucky few.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the new post of president of council, with which everyone seems to be fairly obsessed, is an appointment for two and a half years only and has very few defined powers. so somebody should tell tony blair not to get too upset if he does not get it! after lisbon, the true holy roman emperor of the 21st century – the charlemagne of our times – whose writ extends farther than that emperor’s ever did, is, of course, the president of the commission, our very own senhor barroso. and i say this despite senhor barroso’s comments on partnership. however, it is rather different for the new high representative. there is a big budget to open new diplomatic missions, and i must point out that the existence of the post of eu high representative threatens the permanent seats on the un security council held by the united kingdom and france, too, monsieur daul. however, the big problem facing the nation states of europe is not too few diplomatic missions but too many unemployed. members here have celebrated the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall – and rightly so. but now we have a new berlin wall. not on the frontiers of nations but within nations. this wall is between the professional politicians of the political establishment and the people. it is a bit too late to be asking for transparency now, mr verhofstadt. there are those of us here who will continue to speak for the people and to speak out against these institutions which, as the efd group has said before on several occasions and will do so again, are short of democratic legitimacy.
mr president, i would like to comment on the informal discussions which we all know dominated the last european council. i refer of course to the selection of the next president of the council and the role he will take. i believe that the president should be the servant of the council – a chairman rather than a chief executive. it is therefore important that the president is both collegiate and someone the people trust, and, with that in mind, the worst possible candidate on both scores would be one tony blair. i share chancellor merkel’s dread of having to listen to mr flash for the next five years as his motorcade sweeps around the world. the issue of trust is also important and on too many occasions, mr blair has shown himself to be completely untrustworthy. he is unfit for public office and i urge the council not to appoint him.
mr president, it is great that we can now close the final chapter on the saga of the treaty. however, i regret that we had to pay the price of extending to the czechs the extremely poor precedent of the british protocol on the charter. the press is reporting the protocol as being an opt-out from the charter. i would be grateful if the presidency, in concluding the debate, could confirm that this is far from the position and that the charter will still be binding upon the czechs and their president sitting in his castle. the import of the protocol is to constrain the practice of the courts in deploying the charter during their domestic litigation, which is something far inferior and peripheral – and, at the end of the saga, negligible.
madam president, the british opposition leader has announced an intention to renegotiate parts of the lisbon treaty. that would of course require the consent of all 27 countries. he has also announced the introduction of a sovereignty bill, which would force a referendum in the event of further treaties. this, of course, could easily be repealed by subsequent governments. would the council and commission agree that the conservative leader’s plans are just hot air? his party must decide either to accept the lisbon treaty or, in my opinion better still, take the united kingdom completely out of the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the ecr group accepts that russia is a vital economic partner and a global diplomatic heavyweight, but this position brings with it responsibilities. the first such responsibility is to respect the territorial integrity of its neighbours such as ukraine and georgia and abandon the insulting ‘near abroad’ concept. russia must also take concrete steps to protect human rights and the rule of law, given the number of unsolved murders of journalists and human rights activists. the sakharov prize awarded to the human rights group memorial shows just how seriously we in this parliament view this issue. russia must also cooperate in the prevention of nuclear proliferation, particularly to iran, and not sell iran the s300 missile system to demonstrate solidarity with the west against this dangerous regime. the rising nostalgia for the soviet union and stalin is also very worrying. finally, as winter approaches, russia cannot be permitted once again to use its virtual monopoly of gas supplies to europe as a diplomatic weapon. the eu’s commitment to diversification of source and supply under a common external energy security policy must surely strengthen our hand at the negotiating table with russia.
madam president, there is endless rhetoric here about friendship and cooperation between every state under the sun except for russia. china commits genocide in tibet. turkey denies its armenian holocaust. the usa flattens iraq and this place fawns on them. but for russia there are only pompous and hypocritical lectures. this confrontational russia phobia shamefully feeds the new cold war drive of america’s warmongering neo-con lobby. of course there are some local differences between russia and her neighbours, but can we not agree that next week’s summit should be used to attempt to build bridges and cooperation between the eastern and western halves of our civilisation? for historical and cultural reasons, this is far more practical and safer than attempting to create unity with turkey, europe’s ancient and eternal enemy.
madam president, before we criticise russia for human rights abuses, we should look at similar abuses even within the european union: countries in which opposition parties are physically attacked, such as hungary, or attacked by the militia of the ruling party, such as even the united kingdom, or countries that lock people up for non-violent dissent or ban political parties, like belgium. we must conduct relations with russia on the basis of the interests of our own member states and not on hypocritical outbursts.
i have received six motions for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 12 november 2009. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on- the oral question to the council on implementation of directive 2006/123/ec, by malcolm harbour, andreas schwab, evelyne gebhardt, cristian silviu buşoi, heide rühle, adam bielan, kyriacos triantaphyllides and matteo salvini on behalf of the imco committee (o-0107/2009 – b7-0216/2009), and- the oral question to the commission on implementation of directive 2006/123/ec, by malcolm harbour, andreas schwab, evelyne gebhardt, cristian silviu buşoi, heide rühle, adam bielan, kyriacos triantaphyllides and matteo salvini on behalf of the imco committee (o-0114/2009 – b7-0219/2009).
author. − madam president, it is a privilege to be able to make my first intervention in the chamber since being elected as chairman of the committee on internal market and consumer protection and to present this question on behalf of all the political groups on the committee as well as the coordinators. i am very pleased that many new members of the committee are here tonight to support me and to contribute to the debate. i do not think that this house needs any reminding about the importance of the services directive. in unleashing the power of the single market in a sector that comprises probably 70% of the european economy, the jobs that it will create, and the dynamic effect of that, are sorely needed at the moment in the stagnant conditions that we face. this is a very wide-ranging directive. it has many new features. it is complicated in many areas. it has needed a lot of attention. the transposition of this, in a consistent and full way, is absolutely vital for its effective operation. at the very core of this directive is the fact that member states will remove barriers to business and, in particular, measures in their own national legislation that discriminate against service companies who want to do business. believe me, there are literally hundreds of legislative proposals or pieces of legislation in different countries that have had to be amended as a result of this proposal. unless all colleagues move together to do this, and all countries move together to do this, that discrimination is going to remain. this has to be done consistently. otherwise those barriers will remain. that is why i want first of all to pay tribute particularly to the commission for the leading role it has played in managing and coordinating the whole process among member states, of carrying out and transposing this legislation. i also want to thank the council and, indeed, successive councils, since this proposal was agreed back in 2006, who have led the process which we have actually seen in summits calling for the consistent transposition of this directive. i want to say particularly to cecilia malmström, the minister here tonight, how impressed the committee was with the work that sweden was doing when we went to visit sweden on a mission back in september. i think that they have clearly set an example to many other people and, in particular, in the meticulous way in which they are ensuring that public authorities at all levels in sweden understand their obligations under european law in order to be able to authorise service companies coming from other places within the european union. our question tonight focuses in particular on what we regard as the most important elements to be put in place as soon as possible. member states have been required to go through the screening process of their legislation to look, as i say, for those discriminatory elements. but the transposition on 28 december is just the start of the process of removing obstacles, because every country is now going to come up with a list of proposals which discriminate against other countries and which, they believe, they can justify in the public interest. that mutual evaluation process – which is an entirely new one – requires other member state authorities to look at each other, at each other’s discriminatory proposals. that is going to be a vital part that starts, and we are following that with great interest. we would like to hear tonight how the commission is proposing to approach that process. we would like to know from council what support they are giving to that. we would also like an assurance that this is not going to be a process done behind closed doors, because consumers and businesses and other interest groups will want to know how that process is being carried out. we want to see that list. we want to see the list of regulations and internal statutes that member states want to retain. second is information and access to procedures through electronic technology. setting up the points of single contact for business is a ground-breaking proposal, again, in any european directive. member states are required to make that information and access to the procedures necessary for businesses to complete to allow them to trade through those systems. it is vital that we have full and complete systems set up. so that is what our question is here tonight. we look forward to mrs ferrero-waldner – perhaps in a field that is not so familiar to her – giving us some comprehensive answers. we know you will give our best wishes to charlie mccreevy from everybody. i think it is important to understand, however, the perspective of my committee. for us, this is also the start of a process over the next five years of monitoring and sustaining political interest and pressure on all the member states to deliver this directive. i have to say to cecilia malmström that it was disappointing, to say the least, to see in the report that a competitiveness council discussed back in september a note from the commission that, it would appear, in some member states the political commitment to full and timely implementation has unfortunately not been translated into appropriate action. that is not good enough. we want the benefits and we want them now.
madam president, in my constituency of northern ireland, we currently have 16 000 people suffering from dementia. they, their families and their carers will welcome a proactive approach to tackling this disease, which can be so devastating to both sufferers and families. it is in areas like this that i believe it is good to see cooperation across european states. i believe that a coordinated approach to tackling disease can bring forward new evidence, new medical breakthroughs and, in time, hopefully improve treatment and cure. in the united kingdom, we currently have just over 400 000 people suffering from alzheimer’s. this united kingdom figure is likely to be something in the region of 750 000 people by 2025. it is therefore imperative that something is done to improve our diagnosis, treatment and prevention and social research into the welfare of patients and their families, particularly families who act as carers. a coordinated approach and a sharing of research are vital, as long as that research respects the sanctity of human life in all its forms.
madam president, i would like to draw this assembly’s attention to the disastrous effect that the biocides directive is having across the uk. this punitive and nonsensical directive bans the use of strychnine, which has been used to control the mole population in the uk for the past 70 years. this was the case until the eu got itself involved. as a result, mole catchers are only allowed to use aluminium phosphate, which costs twice as much as strychnine and is putting many of them out of business. but it gets worse. while strychnine kills a mole in up to 15 minutes, aluminium phosphate takes up to three days, ensuring that the mole has a slow and painful death. this crazy directive is not only causing job losses across the uk, but it is also cruel and inhumane and it is another small reason why the uk is better off out.
madam president, i was due to talk about the pressures unlimited eu migration is putting on the uk. forgive me for raising a pressing matter recently brought to my attention. as a coordinator on the regional development committee and an mep for wales, it was with great concern that i received a leaked copy of a draft communication of the european commission entitled a reform agenda for a global europe: reforming the budget, changing europe. the document proposes a major refocusing of the eu’s spending priorities, placing greater emphasis on – and i paraphrase – a global europe, and less on agriculture and transfers towards well-off regions. this will have a huge impact on british agriculture and structural fund programmes in this current cycle. as a net contributor, the united kingdom will be forced to give up much more of the rebate, whilst other countries will be the main beneficiaries. 11.8% of funds earmarked for the uk under the cohesion policy go to the poorest regions in wales. i am very concerned that this leaked document may have consequences for transitional payments at the end of the current programme in 2013. it is time the people of the uk had a referendum on its relationship with this place so they can be the people who decide their destiny, not unelected bureaucrats.
madam president, in the last two months i have suffered victimisation by the uk labour regime, including withdrawal of my house of commons pass, refusal to allow me to enter the sellafield nuclear processing plant – despite my position on a subcommittee of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety – and the refusal of the citizens’ advice bureau to sell me an information database openly advertised for sale to all other meps. madam president, would you agree that political discrimination is not only unlawful but is also an attack not just on me, but also on the functionality of this place and, most important of all, on the voters and the entire democratic process?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − madam president, the commitment supported in the fajon report and backed by the proposed council and parliament declaration is a far-sighted one. it is to give visa-free travel to all the people of the western balkans. this is not solely a generous and altruistic move. it is also hard-headed and shrewd, since security in the widest sense of the word will be promoted and advanced. people who are free, and free to travel, tend to be committed to peaceful solutions and less prey to introverted nationalism which is a security threat. who can fail to be moved by the images on the screens outside this chamber and all the celebrations we have had this week marking the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall? while these obstacles cannot be compared to the wall, they are still a barrier to the free communication and wider horizons that promote understanding and tolerance. our insistence on an inclusive approach should include a fair result by the 15th anniversary of the dayton agreement. i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mrs fajon, for her hard work and the way that she has included all the nuances in every twist and turn of her deliberations over the last two months. i do also thank the council, and especially the swedish presidency, for their work in helping us to get agreement on the declaration, which confirms the definite aim of visa liberalisation for all the citizens of the western balkans as soon as possible – and we hope that this will be during 2010, because the absence of a reasonable commonality in the target dates for achieving this free travel is divisive and creates instability. we also have made a commitment, in the fajon report, to working for a visa-facilitation and visa-liberalisation road map for kosovo similar to those for the other western balkan countries. i would also like to add the hope that the government of the united kingdom – which is not included in the present decision of the eu schengen zone by virtue, of course, of not being a member – will also shortly follow the same path. i always feel a certain schizophrenia when working on these matters on the schengen projects because i am a british mep, but it obviously would be a good thing both for the european union and for the western balkan region if the uk were to follow suit as quickly as possible. i would like to conclude by thanking mrs fajon, the rapporteur.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, until 2008 and the slovenian presidency, not enough progress was made on what the commissioner rightly called a historic move towards visa liberalisation for the western balkans. as mrs ludford said, very correctly, there are deep practical considerations as to why this is important for us and why this is not just a reactive measure. so, on behalf of the socialist and democrat group, i want to thank the rapporteur, mrs fajon, for the careful and painstaking work she has undertaken to move the european union towards this ultimate goal of abolition of the visa regime for all the countries of the western balkans. this has been done with the shadow rapporteurs and with the commission and council, and it should be commended. while it is clear that many see visa liberalisation as having great benefits on both sides; it is also the case that we have to take the whole house with us on the question of the road map and of ensuring that fundamental reforms are carried out in all of these countries, in order to gain confidence for a truly decent visa-liberalisation regime. the task for our rapporteur was to make a breakthrough on visa liberalisation while taking the house with her. she has done this in the form of the declaration that she negotiated with the council. the declaration looks to visa liberalisation for macedonia, serbia and montenegro, to an acceleration of the liberalisation regime for albania, and bosnia and herzegovina and to a sensitive compromise on the question of kosovo. for all these reasons, my group supports this report and hopes it will gain widespread support in the house.
author. − mr president, this is not about telling member states exactly what they should or should not be spending their money on. each country has its own immediate priorities for getting themselves out of their financial difficulties. but when member states do receive that aid from the european union under this provision, they should be encouraged to spend it in a way that respects the principles of the union – in other words, not ignoring the need for social protection and social inclusion. this financial crisis has hit people across the european union hard, and therefore it is right that this fund exists. millions of people have lost their jobs. many of those who have become unemployed in those member states are the most vulnerable and the least likely to find employment quickly. that is why it is important that social safety nets in those member states are not ignored. we have asked in our oral question particularly about whether member states are required to include an evaluation of the social impact in their reports that they submit to the commission. i would be pleased if you can inform us about whether that is the case. it is important that we give the right message to member states that are receiving european funding through the medium-term financial assistance. i believe personally that we must make it clear that the commission might take into account the way the most vulnerable have been helped, before agreeing any further assistance. i know that when member states are in financial difficulties it is quite often not easy to continue to be aware of their social obligations, hence this oral question. it is so important to remember that this financial crisis has a human face as well and that face is represented quite often by the already most marginalised in society.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, following the report by the honourable member mrs guy-quint, dated april 2008, the new legal framework affecting budgetary matters should now be ready for adoption. all the institutions agreed that this would be the case so as to avoid any legal vacuum. we should therefore have no need for transitional guidelines on budgetary matters. the report from the honourable member mr lamassoure focuses on the approval of amending budgets and transfers, both of which constitute risky and inadequate practices that reveal a lack of professionalism as concerns the budgeting and planning process and are bound to become more risky in transitional periods. the current number of amending budgets is excessive and does not even comply with the conditions set out in article 37 of the financial regulation. the current number of transfers is also excessive and would not occur if the planning of the budget was done with a better understanding of the needs of the different sectors in the different countries. as a member of the committee on budgets, i am appalled to see almost the whole committee, except for me, approve all of these requests for transfers. therefore, no amending budgets or transfers should be approved during the transitional period and all efforts should be concentrated on the adoption of the legal framework so as to avoid further damage to the interests of taxpayers.
in writing. − moves to liberalise visa requirements for citizens of the balkan states are to be welcomed. as the stabilisation and association processes develop with these countries and they move from potential candidate status to full candidate status, it seems appropriate that their citizens should enjoy greater freedom of movement. i fully back the amendment tabled on behalf of my own group. this house has previously called on all eu member states to recognise kosovo’s independence and serbia should implement the same measures and controls on its kosovan border as it does on other internationally recognised borders.
in writing. − i took the decision to support this motion for a resolution as i oppose the suggestion made by the commission to reduce the financial envelope of the programme for employment and social solidarity – progress, by eur 100 million and to reallocate this money to the european microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion. the progress programme has now been running for three years and the overall impact has been positive. i welcome the proposal establishing the microfinance facility as i believe it will help offer a new start for some of europe’s most disadvantaged groups by increasing the supply and accessibility of microloans, and in turn, helping people start up their own businesses. however, i do not think that the progress programme should be jeopardised by the reallocation of funds to the microfinance facility. i would like to see the full implementation of both programmes and it is for this reason i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on russia. russia is one of the eu’s most important partners and it is essential that that the eu and russia have a strong working relationship. the forthcoming summit in stockholm will discuss a range of issues important to the eu, russia and, indeed, the wider global community, and parliament has today sent a united message highlighting the areas of key interest and concern.
in writing. − relations between the eu and russia are clearly more than just about trade. the human rights record within russia is of utmost concern with many citizens across the eu. poverty and crime are still continuous reminders of an often weak economic situation for many in russia, particularly the elderly. for those who seek democratic reforms, it is also clear that such courage/dissent is met with harassment and sometimes extreme violence. journalists and internationally respected human rights activists need to be given the strongest rights and protections of any democratic system. the assassination of maksharip aushev highlights the brutality that unfortunately meets protest.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly support the resolution on neurodegenerative diseases and welcome the eu’s proposed coordination in this area. dementia is a huge issue throughout europe affecting millions of individuals and families. there are an estimated seven million people across the eu with dementia, some 70 000 in scotland – and these figures are expected to rise in the future. the commission has expressly recognised scotland as one of a handful of countries to have already embarked upon a national dementia strategy. the work already undertaken in scotland will fit nicely into the proposals of the eu and together we will be more able to better understand and help prevent alzheimer’s and other degenerative conditions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the paliadeli report on the european ombudsman’s activities. the ombudsman provides an important service to eu citizens and helps ensure that the european institutions operate within both the law and wider general principles. these wider principles include equality, non-discrimination, and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and i accordingly supported my colleague ms auken’s amendment seeking to define more clearly the concept of ‘maladministration’.
mr president, russian exile pavel stroilov recently published revelations about the collaboration between the british labour party and the soviet union during the cold war. soviet archival documents state that, in the 1980s, neil kinnock, as leader of the opposition, approached mikhail gorbachev through secret envoys to see how the kremlin would respond if a labour government stopped the implementation of the trident nuclear missile programme. if the report given to mr gorbachev is true, it means that lord kinnock approached one of britain’s enemies in order to seek approval regarding his party’s defence policy and, if elected, britain’s defence policy. if this report is true, then lord kinnock would be guilty of treason. the documents now available must be investigated at the highest possible level by the british authorities and lord kinnock given the opportunity to answer the soviet evidence.
mr president, i was going to speak on the importance of european structural funds for regions like wales post-2013, but i must respond to the comments made by mr batten earlier about a distinguished british politician and former commissioner in the european commission. to accuse such a person of treason is, i believe, to say the least, unparliamentary language, and he should be ashamed of himself. i would ask him to withdraw those remarks, and, if he will not, i think you, mr president, should ask him to do so.
mr president, soldiers from the united kingdom and many other european nations are fighting and dying in afghanistan. we are told that the reasons are to keep our country safe by preventing the return of al-qa’ida, or to protect democracy, or to fight drugs, or to support pakistan, or to uphold the rights of women. but i am no longer convinced by any of these explanations. there is no clear political strategy, and i do not know what the death of our soldiers is supposed to achieve. far from bringing us security, i fear our presence is increasing the dangers, allowing us to be portrayed by islamist extremists as foreign invaders supporting a government of warlords and drug barons in a civil war. our actions foster the growth of radical, anti-western islamic beliefs. we need a diplomatic strategy; we must talk with the taliban, we must promote reconciliation and seek to broaden the composition of the current government and we must be prepared to withdraw our soldiers from afghan soil.
mr president, serious problems concerning the ‘right of ownership’ continue to cause many european union citizens who have invested in property in countries such as spain, bulgaria and turkey stress, financial ruin and general heartache. this is despite the concerted efforts of many meps working on behalf of their constituents and despite lengthy investigations by parliament into the issue, which, as we know, culminated in the well-received auken report in march 2009. i have received complaints from many constituents regarding the problems arising from property deals in all these countries. countless people have found themselves in situations whereby complex zoning laws and urbanisation policies have meant that their properties have been seized without any compensation. i am greatly concerned that more definitive action has not been taken by the eu to attempt to address this problem, despite the overwhelming consensus that it violates the basic rights of european union citizens. the legality and morality of these practices is at best questionable and at worst unveils a corrupt approach to urban development.
mr president, the european union would like to see itself as a democratic union of 27 democratic states, but we have got to look at the reality. in belgium only a few years ago, the state took steps to ban one of the larger political parties. in germany, at about the same time, there were unsuccessful attempts to ban a party on the basis of incriminating statements made by state operatives. in hungary, opposition parties are physically attacked by the state, their members arrested and tortured. in the united kingdom, a violent militia sponsored by the governing party and the leader of the opposition carries out violent and, in some cases, armed attacks on opponents. there are restrictions on non-violent freedom of speech in almost all european union countries. indeed, the european union is in the forefront of trying to legislate against states of mind – various ‘phobias’, as they would put it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as one of the three rapporteurs, who worked very closely together on the whole package – and this is clearly a package – i want to give a very warm welcome to this compromise agreement and also to add my compliments to catherine trautmann, who has led the negotiation with great skill. the wide-ranging nature of the final text and the safeguards it provides for consumers’ rights are a tribute to her negotiating skills. i welcome the fact that all the political groups represented in the conciliation have endorsed the text and that we can finally unleash the benefits of this whole package with our vote tomorrow, because it has now been some months since we worked on it. the council had already accepted, on 26 october, my own report on universal service and users’ rights, a number of points in which mrs reding highlighted. i will not repeat these, but suffice to say this is a major advance for consumers. i would like to make one or two remarks about some elements of my own report and particularly to highlight our negotiations with the council – mr president, unfortunately you have not had a chance to speak, but you were deeply involved in these – which achieved significant advances in the areas of data breach and particularly issues around the use of cookies and the rights that consumers have to refuse devices that may collect information on their computers. commissioner, we very much welcome the statement that you have already made on data breach, but i have to say i was somewhat surprised to receive a statement from 13 member states that seemed to me to rather reinterpret the agreement that they had already signed off on 26 october. you may perhaps wish to comment on that later. i just wish to reinforce the view – and i am sure you would agree, mr president – that what we have agreed is the position. the commission will now carry out that position. if it needs clarification it is down to the commission to do that. we look forward to it enforcing and moving this out as soon as possible, particularly in the area of net neutrality, your declaration on which is warmly welcomed, because that is something that we fought very strongly for in my committee. this is an important step forward for consumers. i very much welcome it on behalf of my group and, i hope, the whole parliament.
mr president, the prospect of this intended measure has raised the hackles of internet users throughout the member states. it threatens unprecedented levels of state surveillance, state intervention and commercial exploitation and seeks to deprive internet users even of the protection of the courts. the council has stated that this assembly is exceeding its powers by providing that the protection of the courts be maintained. but, whether this is true or not, how much more would those powers be exceeded by a provision which allows officials to hound and spy on internet users whilst remaining above the law? this house interposed amendment 138 between governments and governed in order to protect the latter from grave miscarriages of justice, of which bureaucrats are more than capable when freed from judicial supervision. according to reliable legal opinion, the conciliation process has vitiated the spirit and the letter of amendment 138. i call upon all members to determine that, if this house cannot provide the safeguards which should rightly accompany this measure, then it should not adopt this measure at all.
deputising for the rapporteur. − mr president, for once in my life, that was good timing! can i take this opportunity first of all to apologise for my colleague, timothy kirkhope, who is unable to be here. what i am about to do is to read the wise wisdom of all his words that he has thought out and put on paper. i will read his views as rapporteur to you. he is the rapporteur of the two reports of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. firstly i would like to focus on timothy’s report on the draft council decision adopting the rules on the confidentiality of europol information. the rules to be established are to apply security measures to all information which is processed by, or through, europol: in other words, a common standard for protection of information that passes through communication channels between europol and the national units of member states. along with his fellow rapporteurs for the europol package, they have endured a frustrating time negotiating the timescale and legality of the draft council decisions. following president klaus’s signature and therefore the treaty of lisbon becoming a reality, the negotiations with the council and commission have become obsolete. this report, along with his colleagues’ reports, calls for a rejection of the council text. he would like to make it clear that he supports the aim of the council decision, as we are in favour of better exchange of information, and recognise the benefits europol brings to member states regarding law enforcement and crime fighting. we would like to keep europol’s remit and scope small and specific and thereby make the agency as efficient and effective as possible. we also need to recognise that sovereign states have their role to play in that they control their national police forces and security services. however, without prejudice to the overall support of the european police office, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and its effects on police cooperation, the rapporteur, and his fellow rapporteurs in the libe committee, feel that there should be no amendments to the measures implementing the europol decision until such measures can be adopted under the new legal framework provided by the treaty of lisbon. we therefore call on the council to withdraw its proposal and, as stated in the report, call on the commission or the council to make a declaration in plenary on a proposal for a new europol decision, which shall be submitted six months following the date of entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. now i would like to turn to the second report on the initiative of the kingdom of sweden and the kingdom of spain for the adoption of a council framework decision on accreditation of forensic laboratory activities. this is an initiative of sweden and spain on ensuring that laboratory activities are accredited by the accreditation body in order to combat crime through closer cooperation between law enforcement authorities in the member states. over the last couple of years, information exchange in the area of judicial and law-enforcement cooperation has become a high priority for the european union and its member states in the crime-prevention and crime-fighting potential. the purpose of this draft framework decision is to ensure that the results of laboratory activities in one member state are recognised as being equivalent to the results of laboratory activities in other member states, thereby guaranteeing legal certainty to the suspects and improved judicial cooperation where evidence of one member state is used in proceedings in another member state. this purpose is achieved by ensuring that laboratory activities are accredited by the accreditation body to comply with international standards. the framework decision would apply to laboratory activities relating to dna and fingerprints, and each member state ensures that the results of the accredited laboratory activities carried out in other member states are recognised as equivalent to the results of the accredited domestic laboratory activities. however, it will of course always remain the responsibility of each individual judicial authority to assess any evidence, forensic or not, in accordance with its own national law. again i would like to stress that we support the aims of the council’s framework decision. however, again, there are problems regarding the legal basis of this initiative with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the report therefore calls for a rejection of the initiative of the kingdom of sweden and the kingdom of spain. the legal clarity regarding libe reports is unclear in light of the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. this report will be submitted at a later date under a legal basis that is clear. we would suggest that this would allow this important subject to be examined in more detail, as, again, the timetable imposed was very short and did not afford parliament the time it would have wanted on such an important subject.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, these reports lay down the rules for europol gathering and exchanging information between eu member states – and, indeed, third-party nations – of the most personal kind about eu citizens. significantly, they talk about the unauthorised disclosure of such information not disadvantaging, harming or prejudicing the essential interests of europol. there is nothing about protecting the interests of the hapless, innocent citizen who might get caught up in the nightmare of a europol investigation. the most personal information may be collected, including sexual preferences and bank account details. this may even be shared with third-party countries, including those of such outstanding democratic credentials as albania, peru and the russian federation. europol is totally unnecessary from any objective point of view, but the eu’s subjective point of view is that it is essential to have another of those attributes of a political state: its own police force. how many of the eu’s reluctant citizens know that europol officers have immunity from prosecution for anything that they do or say in the course of their duties? for those of you here who have only just emerged from police states, this may not be very significant, but such immunity for law-enforcement officers is a concept alien to english law. as the eu creates its own judicial system with instruments such as the european arrest warrant and trials in absentia, and now its own police force, we in britain are seeing the destruction of our most basic and cherished liberties that have formerly protected us. every single rapporteur at least had the decency to say that these proposals should be rejected until the lisbon treaty was legally in force. if the eu had any decency, there would be referenda on the lisbon treaty and none of it would ever come into force.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, my task is not very easy in the absence of the council. i would like to give some reasons why your commission nevertheless accepted this presentation of the texts. as regards europol, it is difficult to stop the transformation of europol into an agency. there will be other texts on europol and, of course, parliament will then be a co-legislator. it is very difficult to stop the work of europol. i should also like to point out that we now have a man of british origin at the head of europol who is of high quality. it would be a pity to interrupt europol's work in any way. the other two texts are the product of an initiative by the council and the member states. it is a step forward that the member states accept the idea of accrediting laboratories to provide reliable data. that's a pretty good effect, that's an improvement. as for the network - and this is perhaps where parliament's comments are most justified - this prevention network will certainly have to be strengthened and given other tasks in the future. i understand very well what you are saying and i thank mr busuttil and mr strasser for having understood - and the chairman of the libe committee was here earlier - that i myself am very keen to involve parliament closely. everything i have done in the last five years has been thanks to the support of this parliament. so, as you know, i really want to see an association of the parliament. i would also like to say that the commission believes that a comprehensive and case-by-case analysis is needed to determine whether we need to change the acquis of the third pillar. it must be understood that we are in a period of transition: we are moving from intergovernmental to community. i'm happy for the jai. i have also observed that you are all here, eager to engage in police cooperation which, of course, respects human rights and is attentive to the values of the european union. of course you are! and i believe that parliament's action, if i may say so, will be beneficial for all the future texts, which will enable us to go further in police cooperation, which again is also in line with the values and rights of citizens. however, this is a transitional period and i understand very well your desire to be able to involve yourself in the preparation of these texts, but i repeat that the commission believes that, with a full analysis on a case-by-case basis, the texts of the third pillar acquis will be reviewed. to the extent that existing instruments are obsolete or need to be supplemented or updated, at that time proposals can be made. my successors will make proposals which will then enable parliament to improve the texts, since it will finally be a co-legislator. i would like to say again that i will be very attentive, mr president, at the end of my term of office, to any suggestions that may be made to me by the european parliament. but believe me, we are well aware that there will be a number of essential texts for this police and judicial cooperation, which will have to find a new basis and which will thus enable parliament to exercise its role as co-legislator. in the meantime, you will understand why i have tried to explain the reasons why we now want europol to become an agency on 1 january, to continue its work and to take note of the progress that the member states have made in accrediting laboratories and in the prevention network. but once again i understand the positions of parliament and you can be sure that i will be, as far as i can, in the coming weeks the defender of this great area of freedom and security which the member states will henceforth have to build with the active help of parliament.
deputising for the rapporteur. − mr president, we have had a very good debate this evening. i think it is the presidency that stands indicted tonight for their absence. they have not been here, and i think they must bear the shame for it. i just want to make a couple of points. i agree totally with sophia in ’t veld. of course we want a strong europol in the longer term, and even a better, more cooperating europol where that is necessary. we only have to look at the many problems we have facing our borders today – drugs, human trafficking, international crime and terrorism, to name but a few – to see the need for that. i think it was the spokesman for the ppe who raised a point that came very close to me when he talked about the rights of the victim weighed against those of the perpetrator. i think that this is something we have got to give very serious thought to. very sadly we so often see those who carry out the crime get more sympathy and more support than the victim who was on the receiving end of what happened. there are many areas where that can be shown to have been the case. there is no way that can be held to be acceptable. i believe that we must give more support to the victims, and i think that then clearly identifies who was the victim. no way can you have those who perpetrate the crime being given equal treatment with the victim. anyone who believes that in today’s society we can survive without cooperating is living in cloud-cuckoo land. that is the reality as far as i see it. we had a very plain example where i come from – in northern ireland – over the last few weeks, where cooperation between the police service of northern ireland and the garda síochána in the south made it possible to apprehend, bring back and prevent entering the market millions upon millions of cigarettes. do you really think that could have happened if there had not been cooperation – not just between them but cooperation all the way to the far east? yes, my friends, we have to have a strong europol, yes, we have got to work towards that and, yes, we must look to cooperate where it is in the best interests of everyone.
rapporteur. − mr president, thank you firstly for your tolerance and for your presence. when i first stood for the european parliament in 1984, i remarked to one of my then colleagues, ken collins, a scottish member, that i was wondering whether i was doing the wrong thing, because parliament did not seem to have much teeth when it came to legislative matters. ken said to me that it was true that parliament did not have a lot of teeth, but, if you asked any mother of a young baby, you would know that you can make a big impression with your gums. this parliament did make a big impression with its gums in terms of using the right to be consulted on legislation. since then, we have had the single european act, which took the european parliament from being a baby to infanthood, maastricht which took us through puberty, the nice and the amsterdam treaties which took us into adulthood, and now the lisbon treaty, which i believe takes this parliament into the full rights of an adult parliament, comparable to any other democratic institution in the european union. i am honoured to have the opportunity to present a report adjusting our rules of procedure to take into account the new powers we have as a result of the lisbon treaty. i am honoured, but to be honest i am also slightly disappointed, because this report should really be called the corbett report. my colleague richard corbett did all the hard work on this report before the elections. he made it very easy for me in terms of the lisbon aspects of the report. although we have had controversy over the non-lisbon aspects of the report, richard corbett did an excellent job in terms of the lisbon aspects and i really only had to pick up the baton. the report prepares us for the new powers we get on trade policy, where we now have full assent along with the council on all trade matters, and our new powers in terms of agriculture and fishing, where we now have codecision. it also refines our role in the appointment of the european commission, establishes a new relationship between the european parliament and the national parliaments and paves the way for new members of this parliament. most of these issues have been dealt with, as i have said, without controversy. let me just briefly mention where we have some disagreements between the groups, though i should say in passing that the political groups have shown excellent cooperation over this matter. all the major shadows and coordinators have been very supportive, but there are one or two issues that we have not been able to resolve. firstly, who should chair our delegation to cosac? should it be the chair of the committee on constitutional affairs or should it be a vice-president of parliament, as is presently the situation? my own view is that it should be a vice-president; the committee has decided that it should be the chair. in the end, the plenary will decide, but i make the point that cosac is about more than interinstitutional relations. it also deals with policy matters and that is why historically we have had a vice-president chairing the delegation. in terms of our relationship with the national parliaments, we have had some disagreement in the committee on how much detail we should go into, and how much the rules should prescribe that relationship. i have managed to reach a compromise with mr brok, who has been very accommodating in this matter, which lays down some detail but which still leaves enough room for the president of parliament to negotiate with his counterparts in the national parliaments the exact modalities of how we will cooperate with the national parliaments. a third issue where there has been some controversy is how to deal with the principle of subsidiarity. we have settled quite easily the role that the committees will play in this matter, and there is consensus around that. the only point that has emerged is what happens if a committee says ‘no, there is no breach of subsidiarity and the legislation should go ahead’. should there be a safety valve for members of the european parliament to raise the matter on the floor of this house? i have put down an amendment, and others have put down similar amendments, suggesting that if one tenth of the members of the european parliament reckon there is an issue of subsidiarity, then that matter should be debated on the floor of the house. i think that is a sensible safety valve. the last issue that i want to mention is the issue of observers, and whether we should have observers in advance of the 18 new members taking their seats. my view is that we absolutely should. however, the crucial issue – and, again, there is consensus in the committee on this – is whether these observers should be people who would otherwise have been elected to parliament. that is critical for our credibility. if we allow the member states simply to appoint anyone to take the role of observer – and we do have rumours that some member state want to appoint national parliamentarians – i think that would be entirely unacceptable. i conclude by saying that i am pleased that this parliament by its vote this week will have in place on 1 december, from the minute the lisbon treaty comes into force, a set of rules allowing us to exercise our new powers immediately. that is to the credit of the people who worked in the committee on constitutional affairs before the summer, and i again repeat my thanks to richard corbett for all the efforts that he made in this regard. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the alde group is pleased to accept the corbett/martin report which sets parliament on a good path to shoulder its great responsibilities following the entry into force of the treaty. it is important that parliament prepares to become a generalist parliament – that is to say that we have to start to do everything efficiently and expediently across the policy spectrum. a quick comment on our treatment of national parliaments: the treaty quite properly proposes that we improve the collaboration between us and national parliaments, but the treaty is quite discreet: silent upon the precise form that such collaboration should take. we ought to prepare ourselves therefore to consult national parliaments about their approach to the treaty before we set out detailed prescriptions just on our own, within our own procedures. the experiments carried out so far under the auspices of cosac show a great disparity between national parliaments in their approach to the subsidiarity question. i think it is appropriate that the european parliament appreciates such a disparity and that we refrain from formalising the precise methods of collaboration and response to the operation of the subsidiarity mechanism at the present stage of affairs. but, apart from that, the alde group fully supports the proposals that are brought before us.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i wish to express my concern that we have been prevented from debating the brok amendment on implementation of the members’ statute. elmar brok proposed that responsibility be transferred from the bureau, which meets in private, to the parliament, which meets in public. i believe that our constituents have a right to know not only what we pay ourselves, but also the details of the allowances and benefits that we receive. i find it regrettable that you, sir, as our president, think otherwise. more disturbing is that, fearful of losing a vote or perhaps fearful of having a vote at all, you resort to a procedural device to prevent debate. that is undemocratic and, at a time when everyone talks about making the eu more transparent and closer to its citizens, this move smacks of hypocrisy. if the european union is to increase transparency we need to take action and not just mouth platitudes on the subject. it is simply not acceptable to treat our constituents like mushrooms, to keep them in the dark and cover them with fertiliser. i can assure you, sir, that this issue will not go away, and you will have to face a vote sooner or later.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, can you explain why a vote on the brok amendment was permitted in committee and carried, and yet ruled out of order in plenary?
mr president, of course i understand and support your decision, but we do not want – and i think we have perhaps seen signs of this already – an unseemly wrangle on the floor of the house on wednesday, when we come to vote on this important step forward for parliament’s rules. could i ask you tomorrow to circulate to all the appropriate people those amendments you consider not to be ‘lisbon’ – and, by analogy, those that are covered by the lisbon treaty – so that we can clarify that and have a very clear voting list for wednesday, so that there is no dispute when we get to wednesday.
mr president, i stand before you as a democrat. i stand before you as one who has a democratic mandate – a mandate similar to that held by everyone else that has been elected to this parliament. i also stand before you as one who comes from a country, or region, of the united kingdom that has known much distress because of those who would seek to destroy democratic politics. therefore i come with high expectations of how democracy will be handled in this parliament. and yet, in my first mandate as a democratically elected member of the european parliament, i find that i have been excluded from coordinators’ meetings, that i do not have a voice on the conference of presidents. these issues are certainly the subject of talks – and i am certainly very glad to hear that you are trying to resolve these issues. but i would urge you, mr president, to bring these issues to a conclusion very quickly, because it is important that the democratic mandate of this parliament is respected. i would also urge you, mr president, to meet those non-attached members who are democrats and who wish to take this issue forward.
rapporteur. − mr president, my thanks to all those colleagues who have spoken in this debate. i also want to follow up on the point made by mr méndez de vigo. mr casini has been very wise, as he often is on these matters, in that there are amendments which have absolutely nothing to do with lisbon, and it is very clear they have nothing to do with lisbon. while i could have lived with some of them being voted through this parliament, it is perhaps fairer that we have a separate full and frank discussion on these matters before we come to vote on them. i want to make it clear, at the same time, that nothing stops members from bringing forward proposals, for example of the type mr fox talked about, which would strip the bureau of some of its powers in terms of the implementation of the members’ statute. i do not agree with that, but nothing stops members from bringing the issue forward in the future for debate in this house. other amendments, such as the role of the national parliaments, might not strictly be lisbon amendments, but mr casini is absolutely right that they are related to the spirit of implementing lisbon, because our relationship with national parliaments changes as a result of the lisbon treaty. i would ask you therefore in your wisdom to rule that these amendments are admissible, but that those concerning the function of the bureau – the number of vice-chairs for committees and so on – are clearly not matters relating to lisbon and should not be voted on this week.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, aontaím go hiomlán gur gá dúinn brú le haghaidh beart a bheidh ina cheangal dlí a aimsiú i gcóbanhávan. ní mór don bheart a bheith láidir go leor le dul i ngleic le dúshlán an athraithe aeráide agus san am céanna a bheith cothrom agus cóir maidir le tíortha i mbéal forbartha. ní mór do na tíortha tionsclaithe a gheallúint go mbeidh laghdú 40% ar a laghad in astuithe ceaptha teasa faoi 2020 agus laghdú idir 80% agus 95% faoi 2050 i gcomparáid le leibhéil 1990. ní mór don ae eur 30 billiún sa bhliain a gheallúint mar mhaoiniú aeráide do thíortha i mbéal forbartha faoi 2020, mar bhreis ar chúnamh forbartha coigríche. ar an drochuair, tá daoine san eoraip a bhfuil an-spéis acu an drogall atá ar thíortha eile na céimeanna riachtanacha a thabhairt a úsáid mar leithscéal ag an ae gan a dhualgas a chomhlíonadh. tá a leithéid de chur chuige an-ghearr-radharcach ar fad. beag beann ar thorthaí chainteanna chóbanhávan, is gá don ae leanúint ar aghaidh agus spriocanna éifeachtúla le haghaidh laghduithe astuithe a leagan síos agus a chur i bhfeidhm; teicneolaíochtaí nua glana a fhorbairt agus é féin a gheallúint ar son ceartas aeráide, sa dóigh nach bhfágfar tíortha i mbéal forbartha leis an fhómhar a chuir an domhan forbartha a bhaint.
mr president, if you look out of the window today you will see a rather miserable strasbourg day, which is nothing out of the ordinary. even the floods which are devastating parts of my region in cockermouth and workington, where we have had the highest rainfall on record, are nothing special; they cannot be specifically attributed to climate change, although they are in line with the science. it is hard to take the political decisions necessary when there is doubt about whether climate change is taking place. we have to take a step back; we have to recognise that during the course of one lifetime the human population has quadrupled and our use of fossil fuels, our energy consumption, has grown enormously. perhaps, as our atmosphere retains the same depth, we also must wonder whether climate change should not be taking place faster than it is. i think it is important to recognise that climate change is not a religion. it is not a faith. we have to take on board the arguments of the sceptics and we have to challenge them. we have to ensure that our science is put to the fore. i just wish some of the sceptics would not take such delight in putting forward proposals to delay action, proposals which might end up costing the lives of millions. there has been a downplaying of the ambitions for copenhagen, but if you had heard minister carlgren at the committee on the environment, public health and food safety yesterday, you would have heard no such downplaying. the ambitions could not have been reinforced more strongly. we have 65 heads of government attending. we need the leaders of the united states and china to be there too, but we have an opportunity here to take some major political decisions. i welcome the fact that the european union has given such leadership. we are delighted with this. the question is: is it enough? the situation is fluid. we have four weeks and negotiations have a momentum of their own. are we giving you enough room for manoeuvre? the commissioner has suggested that we need to move from 20% to 30%. now, is this a shift in our negotiating position? are we strengthening this? are we saying that we are prepared to make this gesture even before we get a final agreement? before this debate finishes, can we hear more from the council and the commission about what room there is for upping our game?
mr president, everyone agrees that climate change is the biggest challenge facing humanity: that is the constant claim of the political elite, and it is a lie. everyone does not agree. thousands of scientists dispute the very existence of man-made global warming, citing natural cyclical changes that saw vineyards in roman northern england and a swedish army march over the frozen baltic to copenhagen in 1658. as an army of global-warming zealots marches to copenhagen, the truth is that their orwellian consensus is based not on scientific agreement, but on bullying, censorship and fraudulent statistics. in the words of leading climatologist professor lindzen, ‘future generations will wonder in bemused amazement that the early 21st century’s developed world went into hysterical panic over a globally averaged temperature increase of a few tenths of a degree and, on the basis of gross exaggerations of highly uncertain computer projections [...], contemplated a rollback of the industrial age’. in fact, there will be no bemused amazement, for the reason for this hysteria is clear. it is designed to provide the excuse for a political project of the globalists to replace national democracy with new-world-order global governance. it has nothing to do with science and everything to do with the globalist common purpose to tax and control us, while making billions for corporations in the green industrial complex. the anti-western intellectual cranks of the left suffered a collective breakdown when communism collapsed. climate change is their new theology, a secular religious hysteria complete with pope – al gore – carbon-credit indulgences and the persecution of heretics. but the heretics will have a voice in copenhagen and the truth will out. climate change is being used to impose an anti-human utopia as deadly as anything conceived by stalin or mao.
mr president, i have just heard a socialist colleague over there talking about greenland and the ice melting in greenland. the question i would like to ask on this subject is: why is greenland called greenland? is it perhaps because greenland was once green when the world was hotter? it seems that the british people are onto this, because a recent opinion poll in the times newspaper clearly shows that the british people no longer believe in so-called man-made global warming. the british people are very astute and they are clear that politicians have hijacked the environmentalist agenda. it is being cynically used to raise taxes, to exert control, and now it is being used by the european union to justify its own existence. this week we have also had the spectacle of one of the leading climate-research centres in the uk, which advises the government, being caught altering data and stifling debate. it is an absolute disgrace. i look forward to copenhagen, when the political class is sitting around the table awkwardly failing to mention the giant elephant in the room, which is that the globe has not actually warmed for the past 10 years.
mr president, once again the house has been treated to two speeches by the bnp and ukip, and once again the two parties are united in their belief in conspiracy theories, showing there is very little difference between them. but i want to congratulate the minister first of all this morning for remaining ambitious about copenhagen and sticking to the idea of a legally binding agreement. this morning the bbc is reporting that the white house is saying that it will come to copenhagen with targets for cutting us emissions. those of us who have met us members of congress know that there is a serious move afoot and thus a very serious prospect of legislation in the united states, so i think there is still real hope for a deal in copenhagen. but copenhagen will just be the beginning, because when we come back from copenhagen we in europe will have to continue our work to cut our emissions. we have got to keep investing in energy efficiency, in renewables and in low-carbon technology. i am very pleased that last week we agreed as a european union that there will be investment in technologies like carbon capture and storage, and that one of those plants will come to my constituency in yorkshire, at hatfield. commissioner dimas, i want to thank you. i do not know whether this will be the last opportunity on the floor of the house to thank you for the work you have done as commissioner over the last few years, but the commission has really done a very good job in putting europe in the lead, and your work has to be commended to this house. we will see you in copenhagen. we might see you here in january but i just wanted to put that on the record. finally, i hope that this house will vote for a good resolution on climate change, and i hope we will reject the amendments put down by members of the house on the opposite side who seem to want to water down our commitments. they want to reduce our targets and they want to offset more of our emissions. if we are serious about climate change, if we want a good deal, we have to vote those amendments down.
mr president, i welcome the positive and determined stance being taken by the swedish presidency, and particularly the minister’s determination that the agreement in copenhagen should be upgradable and include monitoring mechanisms so that it can be adjusted in the light of new scientific research. the eu climate package passed in december 2008 was important in showing the seriousness of our commitment to climate change, and what has been agreed in recent months under the swedish presidency has also been important - particularly the recast energy performance of buildings directive, which will slash the carbon footprint of both new and renovated buildings. however, there is one glaring gap in europe’s plans, and that is investment. it is a startling fact that the us, despite not having passed legislation, has committed more than usd 100 billion to clean-energy spending and china has pledged usd 200 billion in its economic stimulus plan, whereas the eu commitment is little more than usd 50 billion. we should bear that in mind and not be too self-congratulatory in the run-up to copenhagen.
madam president, there is a new film on climate change called the age of stupid. it is set in 2055 and focuses on a lone survivor of climate catastrophe. i am haunted by some words from that film, where the actor, looking back to 2009 – looking back to now – says ‘why, knowing what they knew then, didn’t they act when there was still time?’ in other words, why have we failed to galvanise sufficient political will? partly it is because we do not talk enough about the benefits of shifting to a post-carbon world – the millions of jobs in green energy, the better-insulated homes, the improved public transport. that is the message the eu must champion. yet even the most ambitious target the eu is currently proposing – a 30% cut by 2020 – will give us only a 50/50 chance of avoiding the worst of climate change. if you were told that a plane that you were about to get on had a 50/50 chance of crashing, you probably would not get on. and yet the stakes we are playing for in copenhagen are a lot higher than that. so my message to you is: please, be more ambitious. do not let the epitaph for copenhagen be that this was the age of stupid.
madam president, in my english constituency this week it was discovered that scientists from the university of east anglia were allegedly manipulating data to try and prove man-made global warming. what a giveaway that was! it is clear now that the scientific consensus on man-made global warming is fast eroding: 30 000 sceptical scientists in the manhattan declaration; 600 scientists in a us senate report; even german scientists this year writing to chancellor angela merkel. meanwhile, the author of the key un report on this, sir nicholas stern, urges us to become vegetarian to stop cows farting. maybe it is not just certain cows that have gone mad. i am on the committee on international trade. i am deeply concerned with the wto talks starting this week. i worry about a drift towards green tariffs justified on the basis of such spurious claims. these new tariffs are just barriers to trade, they punish the poor and have no justification whatsoever. this is just enviro-imperialism.
mr president, see how stealthily, how silkily, by how many small steps, how insidiously and invidiously we have moved towards the establishment of a pan-european federal police force. when europol was first established in the early 1990s it was presented as a clearing house – as a regional branch of interpol, if you like. since then, bit by bit, it has been given executive and policing powers. first these were portrayed as being narrowly restricted to the field of cross-border counter-terrorist activities. that, of course, is how the fbi got started, and bit by bit it eventually extended its remit and agglomerated powers until it had become a federal pan-continental police force. a similar process is now at work with europol, which has gradually extended its remit to cover a whole series of crimes that are national in nature – but with the rather fascinating oversight that its personnel still have diplomatic immunity; in other words they cannot be held to account for abuse of police powers. when did we ever vote for this? when did we ever agree to set up a pan-european system of criminal justice with its own arrest warrant, its own police force, its own prosecuting magistracy and its own pan-european public prosecutor? i think we ought to have the courtesy to ask our people, our voters, whether they approve.
mr president, the best thing we could do for the balkan and caucasian republics is to admit them unconditionally into a customs union, to open our markets to their products. those are countries ideally placed to price themselves into the market. they have educated and industrious workforces but they have relatively cheap costs and therefore competitive exports. instead of doing that, we are freezing out their produce in a number of key areas, and then to salve our consciences we are giving them government-to-government financial assistance. in doing so we of course make them dependencies; we make them satrapies. it is not only the russians who think of these countries as their ‘near abroad’. this is a phrase that also seems to apply sometimes in brussels. we drag their politicians and their decision-makers into a system of the massive redistribution of wealth and we thereby europeanise them in advance because they are learning what we in this house know all too well, which is that the primary function of the european union these days is to act as a massive device to take money away from taxpayers and give it to the people lucky enough to be working inside the system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the compromise package on telecommunications. whilst, as is the nature of compromises, the package is not perfect, i believe that it is a step in the right direction and will bring about an improvement in consumers’ rights.
in writing. − in line with the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, i voted against the draft decisions. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon imminent, decisions in this area should be taken under the new legislative procedures.
in writing. − i abstained on the bullmann report. whilst i do believe that the council has a duty to listen to the views of this house, the eu's only directly elected institution, i do not believe that vat systems should be harmonised. the principle of subsidiarity dictates that taxation is a matter best left to the nations of europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the rosbach report. carbon capture and storage can make a significant contribution to efforts aimed at tackling global warming and my own country, scotland, will play an important role in developing the necessary technology. this amendment to the ospar convention will mean that the eu and scotland can take a lead in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report relating to recovery plan changes within the framework of the north atlantic fisheries organisation. international fisheries organisations are essential to the management of global marine resources. i consider it unfortunate however that it is the eu that negotiates with our north atlantic neighbours; whilst the treaty of lisbon has now enshrined this principle, i still consider that there is scope for fisheries management to be returned to the fishing nations and maritime regions.
in writing. − i consider the role of parliament to be only effective if it can sustain the effect of legislation. in this context the application of the rule of ‘regulatory procedure with scrutiny’ allows for ex ante consideration of proposals brought into law. this report nuances parliament’s role and enhances our ability to control and monitor the implementation of legislation in member states.
i was also going to ask a question about gender balance in the commission, so i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate cathy ashton on her appointment. i am sure you will agree with me that she is a great talent. i am delighted that the first high representative role is going to someone from britain, and i am particularly pleased that it is going to a british woman. it is something that we, the women in the socialist group, have for some considerable time been calling for. cathy ashton was the leader in the upper house in the uk when the lisbon treaty was steered through – no mean feat. she has great political skills and has accomplished a great deal since being a commissioner. her quiet diplomacy, rather than an ‘ego on legs’, has ensured agreements where others have failed and where it has proved difficult in the past. i would say to cathy ashton that she is not there to stop the traffic, but actually to create the traffic system. i know she will do a fantastic job.
mr barroso, you may or may not wish to comment on the recently leaked budget review paper, but you will no doubt be aware that it has caused great concern in many regions across europe. indeed, the first minister for wales, rhodri morgan, has recently written to you expressing his concerns. in view of this, can i ask you if you will be bringing forward new proposals that ensure regions across europe will have access to structural funds post-2013? and, if you do intend to bring forward such proposals, will it be under this existing commission or under the new commission, when it is appointed?
chris patten said the danger in the balkans is that they pretend to reform and the eu pretends to believe them. that seems to be happening in bosnia, which is sliding alarmingly towards dysfunction if not destruction. the international community and the eu are perceived in bosnia as failing to insist on reforms and failing to stand up to milorad dodik, republika srpska leader. the office of high representative, while it still lasts, has been undermined and the authority of the international community weakened. how would you answer the charge that the eu is running an agenda in the western balkans which is to the benefit of the serbs in belgrade and bagna luca - with the bosniacs the losers? will you encourage the new high representative and, when she is confirmed, vice-president of the commission, cathy ashton, to make bosnia an absolutely top priority? how will you ensure that the eu’s special representative has real leverage, a clear mandate and the united support of the eu behind him or her?
i asked about cathy ashton, the high representative, who was appointed last week. that is very much ‘follow-up to the european council’.
mr barroso, following the appointment of the new president, herman van rompuy, there has been a lot of speculation over whether direct eu taxes will be introduced. can you tell me please, honestly, if this is the case, and how you intend to raise such taxes?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the motion for a resolution to which we are referring in this debate is a perfect example, i have to say, of the european parliament at its worst. whilst i acknowledge the hard work of the rapporteurs, and no doubt their noble intentions, by trying to include everything in the 27-page text, the motion is confused and, in my view, a lot less valuable than the stockholm agenda and the swedish presidency deserve. let me stress that we, too, want to see greater cooperation in the quest to find solutions, and to have solidarity on immigration and in fighting corruption and exchanging information, but this should not necessarily be at the cost of national sovereignty, nor should it be overly prescriptive. applying the 1951 united nations convention on refugees all over europe in a proper manner is still the best way of dealing with asylum issues. we support exchange of information to ensure that we have a true jha approach to the use of data, underpinned by strong data protection, founded on principles of proportionality, necessity and transparency. we also support the principle of mutual recognition, and free movement rights should be assured for european citizens, but abuse of those rights must be curtailed through strong border controls and by using the eu’s weight to secure quicker returns, and through the development of frontex protecting the eu’s external borders. the exchange of information helps combat terrorism. we also support the eu’s serious organised crime strategy, targeting gangs who trade on the trafficking of people, guns and dogs, confiscating profits illicitly gained and working with european organisations on the eu border. however, we cannot support items that we see as blatant encroachments on sovereignty, unless they are in themselves leading to greater cooperation. surely there is a certain irony in calling for compulsory and irrevocable solidarity: surely solidarity is something that is offered and not compulsory. in the main, i think the swedish presidency, and indeed the motion itself, have good ideas, but unfortunately, as usual, we go on providing ourselves with massive christmas trees where very little can actually, therefore, be achieved.
mr president, the stockholm programme is part of creating a common legal and judicial system across the european union. the document talks about ‘making people’s lives easier: a europe of law and justice’. let me tell you what your common legal system has done for the life of one person. andrew symeou, a 20-year-old london man, was extradited to greece this summer on a manslaughter charge. he now languishes in a greek prison awaiting trial. the evidence against him would not stand up for five minutes if examined by a british court. the identification evidence is contradictory. witness statements have all the signs of having been written by the police. two witnesses claim they were beaten and mistreated and forced to sign statements which they later immediately withdrew. the appeal court in london knew very well there was no real evidence against mr symeou but they were forced to extradite him because, under the european arrest warrant, they had no power to stop it. the british courts cannot now protect british citizens from unjust arrest and imprisonment by foreign courts. we had a perfectly good area of freedom, security and justice in britain before we joined the european union. the european union is destroying the legal protections that we enjoyed in england for centuries. in the process, it will destroy people’s lives. the stockholm programme may be about law, but it is not about justice. if the british people want to preserve their liberties, then they have to leave the european union.
mr president, the swedish presidency is to be congratulated for the way they have pushed the overdue question of defendants’ rights to fair treatment across europe. this is absolutely essential to accompany the european arrest warrant. we need to ensure that mutual recognition really can be based on mutual confidence in all the national criminal justice systems. this is not the case at present and there are severe weaknesses. i also have a constituent, andrew symeou, who has been in jail in greece since july, refused bail because he was a foreigner. his greek lawyer has made a complaint about police abuse and destruction of evidence. an application will be made to the european court of human rights, and it is pretty shameful that this is necessary, because this is about the treatment of one eu citizen by another member state. it is shocking that this has to go to strasbourg. so i support the european arrest warrant, but we absolutely must have the defendants’ rights to go with it. otherwise we will have scandals like that of andrew symeou which destroy public support for the european arrest warrant, as is happening in my country.
mr president, this has been a long journey, from tampere, where we saw just the outlines of an area of freedom, security and justice – and perhaps we talk too much – to this extraordinary position where we have stockholm and lisbon colliding. i say respectfully to all of those who believe that we do not need a blueprint to fight our corner for the area of freedom and security and justice that we want: we do not take our players off the field when the game begins. we fight our progressive corner and, for our group, we will fight for our progressive policies. but we must have a stockholm blueprint in the first place. we have lisbon, so we – all members here, however they vote – will have to assume our responsibility to legislate after christmas on the things that matter to us. this is a serious responsibility and my group – as our hard-working rapporteurs mr lópez aguilar and mr berlinguer have set out – has its priorities. we will then have an area of freedom, security and justice in a democracy that we win or we lose. regarding our priorities, on anti-discrimination, we send a message to the council. we want a horizontal directive. we must fight for this progressive line. on criminal justice, we say: mutual recognition is important so that the european arrest warrant will actually work. on asylum, we say ‘yes’ to solidarity between member states but, for us, a progressive solution means that those asylum seekers who are vulnerable must have the best representation. so these are our group’s priorities, this is our added value on the subject of hate crime, on amendments on migration policies, on violence against women, on a european protection order. all of these issues illustrate how we as a political group – how all political groups – can add value to the stockholm programme and can create legislation which is meaningful. ultimately, we play the game because, for our citizens, this is not a game. this is about delivering at last – at long last – the rights that they have asked for for so long: fundamental rights on data protection, on security and on anti-terrorism. all of these things will mean something when we assume the responsibility in this house to legislate. we will only do that when we vote through the stockholm programme. we will then fight for a progressive stockholm programme and progressive legislation.
mr president, congratulations to all of those concerned with this report and congratulations to the swedish presidency. societies are changed not by mediocrity but by courage, conviction and vision. and that has been displayed here in parliament this afternoon. we are talking about freedom, security and justice: three fundamental principles. yet without equality and equality of treatment, you will never have freedom, you will never have security and you will certainly never have justice. that applies most particularly to minorities, who are so often maligned and misrepresented. equality and equality of treatment are the only durable building blocks of any civilised society. and that is why i am proud to promote and associate myself with a europe where we are all equal, regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, belief, age, disability, gender or sexual orientation – a europe of equals; a europe of fundamental values.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i firstly take this opportunity to give credit to commissioner kallas for the real progress which has been made in addressing the issues and reservations expressed by the court of auditors. in my view, this outgoing commission has made more positive progress than any preceding commission in recent times and i thank him for his efforts. it is widely accepted that the adoption of accrual-based accounting systems has been a success and that that installation has been responsible for much marked improvement. i also want to acknowledge good progress made with the common agricultural policy and, in particular, the iac system, which has given great benefit as well. however, i do have two areas of concern which i must mention. firstly, the court of auditors, in its annual report, makes repeated criticism of ‘the accuracy and reliability of underlying transactions’. i agree, and in this respect 2007 was no different from previous years. their message is perfectly clear: there is still a great deal of work to be done. secondly, i want to mention that the court of auditors was critical of the lack of controls in joint managed programmes. this parliament has repeatedly called on the member states to devote far greater urgency to addressing the auditors’ concerns, and in particular we have called on the member states to meet the terms of the 2006 interinstitutional agreement. for the sake of fiscal integrity and for public accountability, they must now show more resolve and so, for those reasons, and until we see real progress being made by council in this matter, i and my colleagues in the british conservative delegation will vote against discharge of the 2007 general budget.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, we are elected members of the european parliament, but our voters do not know what is going on behind the scenes. in april 2009, the budgetary control committee decided to postpone discharge to the council. even if the court of auditors had not criticised the accounts, the committee claimed to have enough reasons to proceed that way. however, after this committee met with the swedish presidency in september, and some written answers were given to parliament’s questions, mr søndergaard, the rapporteur on the council discharge for 2007, still issued a report which, even with much goodwill, would not have allowed discharge to be given. but a political decision was taken to give discharge and the compromising paragraphs were watered down. the committee intends to recommend discharge on expectations for the future. if the people who bothered to vote for us in june knew the following: that there is a consensus not to rock the boat on the basis of a gentleman’s agreement from 1970; that the internal auditor of the council would not be invited to the budgetary control committee because then the council would be able to invite the internal auditor of the european parliament, with uncertain consequences; and that the politically appointed court of auditors did not have any comments on the council’s internal auditor’s report of april 2008, what would they say? back in 2002, when i was chief accountant of the european commission, the then director-general for budgets stated, in a letter to the then internal auditor of the commission, that the discharge procedure was an interinstitutional game and nothing more. are we going to continue to avoid talking about the gorilla in the middle of the room because we are afraid to lose privileges obtained after years of silence? we can choose to expose and end hypocrisy when we vote for the 2007 council discharge; i think you know what i choose, and i hope that you will join me in refusing discharge to the council.
the next item is question time (b7-0223/2009). the following questions are addressed to the commission.
question 26 by marc tarabella (h-0377/09) subject: information on energy prices for consumers the commission recently opened the second meeting of the ‘citizens’ energy forum’ in london. in her statement, the commissioner for consumer protection emphasised how important it is for energy consumers to have gas or electricity bills – the best indicator of energy consumption – that are simple and accurate and that allow comparisons between providers. going beyond these major annual public events, can the commission indicate specifically how it intends to compel energy producers and distributors to meet this objective, which is essential for citizens, despite having refused to adopt the energy consumers’ charter proposed by parliament?
if i can follow up the question: we know there is huge potential for energy saving in domestic households. i look at my electricity bill, i look at it with interest because i want to make these savings, and frankly i find it confusing. if i find it confusing then i suspect many of my constituents do. self-regulation is not sufficient. clarification is an area in which the european commission could make a genuine difference which i think would be welcomed by people everywhere and would provide some significant assistance to us in trying to reduce our global warming emissions. please take this back to the commission and think again.
question 27 by jim higgins (h-0401/09) subject: food labelling for consumers could the commission outline what investigations or reports it has carried out regarding food products which claim health benefits? has a range of these foods been investigated or tested to verify whether the claims they are making are valid, in order to protect consumers?
question 28 by gay mitchell (h-0366/09) subject: varying consumer rights it is very often the case that constituents come to their meps with problems regarding their consumer rights while living or travelling in another member state. what is the commissioner doing to promote knowledge and understanding of consumer rights, which vary across the member states of the european union?
mr president, i particularly wanted to be here this evening because i think that this is mrs kuneva’s last opportunity to speak to us as commissioner, and i wanted to pose two questions. first of all, would she agree with me that consumer information and sweeps and her work have been dramatically increased during her tenure as the first commissioner whose responsibility focused specifically on consumers? secondly, would she also agree with me that it is absolutely crucial that in the next commission we continue to have a commissioner who is dedicated to consumer affairs? we have heard disturbing rumours that this might not be the case in the new commission, and i wanted to give her the opportunity to give us her views this evening.
question 29 by pat the cope gallagher (h-0412/09) subject: car rental companies does the commission approve of the practice by car rental companies that require consumers to pay for a full tank of fuel prior to rental, irrespective of the fact that the consumer may return the car to the rental company with, for example, half a tank of fuel remaining, and the consumer will not be reimbursed? is this practice in compliance with the package travel directive (90/314/eec oj l 158, 23.6.1990, p. 59.)?
this is an area that i personally have had discussions with the car rental companies about. there are other issues apart from this: for example, damage claims of an unexpectedly high nature and cars not inspected. i wonder, therefore, if the commissioner would agree with me that, under the provisions of the services directive for the cross-border supply of services, member states are explicitly encouraged to promote proper codes of conduct for cross-border service supply. this seems to be exactly the sort of area where we should be encouraging member states, perhaps facilitated by the commission, to get the car rental operators together to produce a code of conduct that reputable operators would have to sign up to, which would cover the issues that my colleagues are talking about, plus other serious consumer issues as well.
question 30 by georgios papastamkos (h-0363/09) subject: action programme for reducing administrative burdens in the eu in january 2007 the commission launched the action programme for reducing administrative burdens in the european union, in order to measure administrative costs arising from legislation in the eu and reduce administrative burdens by 25% by 2012. this programme is financed under the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip). what is the commission’s assessment of the progress of implementation of the above action programme to date, and its impact on the competitiveness of european enterprises?
question 31 by seán kelly (h-0368/09) subject: tourism under lisbon can the commission outline what plans it has developed, in terms of preparatory actions and other initiatives, to prepare the ground for the development of the tourism competence under lisbon (article 195 tfeu), assuming lisbon comes into effect? can the commission comment on the possibility of developing synergies between tourism and regional development policies, with specific reference to geographically and economically marginalised regions of the eu?
question 33 by konstantinos poupakis (h-0361/09) subject: participation by the social partners in devising and implementing employment policies at national and european level as is well known, the intensity and extent of the economic crisis has added to the severe organisational and operational problems of labour markets in the eu member states; management of these problems exceeds the powers of national central governments. one of the worst consequences facing the member states is the reduction in employment and the corresponding rise in unemployment rates and the extreme difficulty of creating new jobs that are stable and of good quality. moreover, the current restructuring in the way that national labour markets operate is having an unfortunate impact on workers, as collective agreements are circumvented in practice, jobs are becoming less secure, and industrial relations are damaged by the trend towards flexible forms of work without any corresponding reinforcement of the concepts of security and protection at work. what is the commission’s position and does it envisage more active participation and involvement of social partner organisations in drawing up policies to ensure smooth organisation and functioning of labour markets, combat unemployment and boost employment at national and european level?
thank you for that remark, mr posselt. i resisted making those same comments to other commissioners tonight. we are not entirely sure: they may well be back for a few more weeks yet! i apologise to colleagues who have had the courtesy to attend but whose questions were not taken.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the uk independence party opposes the euromed agreement, and this is why: the euromed agreement will offer significant trade concessions, and even subsidies, to non-member states. this is bound to be at the direct or indirect cost of the british taxpayer. moreover, when the commissioner’s representative spoke on euromed to the committee on international trade, of which i am honoured to be a member amongst other people here, he said – and i quote here directly – ‘there is no question of implementing all the eu regulations’. he went on to say the application of the eu regulations will be intelligent and selective. by contrast, we in the uk put up with, and indeed our economy suffers from, all the eu regulations being applied and, moreover, being applied to us in a way which is both unintelligent and universal. we are not even permitted to have the kind of light bulbs that we would like. but it is not just light bulbs. after lisbon, we in the uk will be ruled to a greater or lesser extent by the three amigos: the president of the commission, the newly appointed president of the council – who must surely be tintin’s grandfather – and, more crucially, the high representative mrs cathy ashton who, in her mature 30s, was one of four paid officials of the far-left cnd. this is a serious matter, and these are the people we are stuck with, but the euromed countries will not have to put up with the three amigos at all. there is also the matter of human rights. in this instance, i have to ask what is going on here. syria and libya, of all countries, have been offered trade concessions and even subsidies to be paid for by us, but where are the safeguards on human rights? nowhere to be seen for these two countries, both of which have a long and frankly despicable record. as someone who was a teenager in the 1960s, i have to say that the proposers of this part of the resolution must have been smoking something, so we are opposed to this resolution in all its parts.
mr president, this debate has been about the liberalisation of trade, and i stand before this house tonight as a european who believes in the cooperation of nations, but not as one who believes in the federalism of the current project. for the united kingdom, lisbon will decrease our powers to control trade and exercise trade with whomsoever we will. furthermore, the diminution of our democracy, both in the united kingdom and in europe, is apparent with the events of last week where we had the appointment of a president and the anointing of a high representative of foreign affairs who has never held elected office, but who will speak for the people of europe on foreign affairs. surely this is not a situation that the commission can stand over, and it would be interesting to hear its views.
author. − mr president, i rise on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism to introduce this oral question which has been prompted by recent accidents in italy and the netherlands, both of which, sadly, had fatalities. i think it right, however, to point out that rail is still one of the safest modes of transport and certainly it is the intention of my committee to do all that we can to ensure that this remains the case. hence this oral question. we here in the european parliament have always taken rail safety very seriously. this has culminated in the recent rail safety directive and follows on from a long line of railway initiatives and reports taken by parliament over many years. yet we have a frustration born out of the inability over the years of both railway companies and national governments to act in key areas. this manifests itself when you examine key legislation and in particular the implementation of such legislation in international law, which has been at best patchy and at worst downright protectionist. the commission's own progress report on the implementation of the rail safety directive says that national standards and rules are creating a barrier to a fully integrated rail system. this then poses the question as to whether those national rules are also compromising safety. and what about interoperability in the rail sector? are national barriers preventing progress in this area as well, or is there an unwillingness on the part of the rail industry to embrace the concept of interoperability? why is progress on ertms so slow and are we going to fail in our attempt to have the ecm scheme in place by the end of next year? these are all questions that as a committee we seek answers to. and, allied to that, we would like to know from the commission what national barriers and loopholes are currently halting progress on interoperability, and which member states are the most obstructive. following on from that, will the commission use any legal powers at its disposal to ensure compliance with community law? i know that the problems, particularly in regard to rail freight but not exclusively in that area, lie firmly at the door of council. i and my committee want to work with the commission and the industry to develop a safe, integrated, interoperable railway network. my committee is now beginning to question whether the safety side, particularly as it refers to freight wagons, is starting to be compromised by this failure to implement european legislation. if this is so, then action is needed urgently. but action is also needed to deliver both integration and interoperability if passenger railways are to develop to their full potential and if rail freight is, frankly, to survive.
mr president, it is good to hear of the need for diversity and multilingualism, but i want to highlight very briefly a situation in my own part of the united kingdom. the minority language of ulster scots is part of the cultural wealth of northern ireland and is recognised by the united kingdom under the council of europe charter for regional and minority languages. as a result of the st andrews agreement act, the northern ireland executive is charged with bringing forward a strategy for the ulster scots language and culture. in preparing this strategy, the culture minister is taking into account the european charter and other international instruments, including the united nations convention on the rights of the child. he is also setting the strategy in the context of the promotion of a shared and better future for northern ireland based on equality, diversity and interdependence. unfortunately, sinn fein has used culture – especially language – as a weapon in its campaign against the state, and this has led to controversy and contention. that is an abuse and misuse of language. so we must hope that a shared and better future aspect of the strategy will address the legacy of that cultural war.
mr president, as a member of the european parliament for wales, i have a lot of sympathy for the many minority languages across europe, particularly as my mother tongue is welsh, one of the oldest european languages still in use. numerically, the situation of hungarian speakers in slovakia is very similar to that of welsh speakers in wales, in excess of half a million individuals. this equates, however, to 20% of the people in wales but less than 2% of the uk population. after many hundreds of years of pushing and pulling between english- and welsh-speakers in wales and arguments very similar to those now between slovak-and hungarian-speakers today, a happy coexistence has been achieved in wales. the revival of the welsh language over the past 15 years since devolution has been meteoric. the positive attitude to the language has had huge cultural benefits. in wales the key has been to take a pragmatic approach. we should aim for people to be able to speak in whatever language they feel most comfortable in, but without causing undue burden or cost. for example, i intend to finish my comments in welsh although i would not want to incur the cost to taxpayers of simultaneous translation here in parliament for the benefit of just two welsh-speaking meps. however, diversity should be celebrated. (the speaker spoke in welsh.)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all may i wish mr van rompuy and baroness ashton well in their new roles, and i hope they are able to establish templates for their posts which will endure. if the european council is to have a semi-permanent president, it should be someone who takes a low-key but practical approach to building a consensus among the member states where this is possible and desirable. if we are to have a reinforced high representative for foreign affairs, the main task should be working closely with member states in coordinating common policies where they have shared objectives. these appointments should be an opportunity to put a stop, once and for all, to the nightmare vision of an ever more centralised and bureaucratic european foreign and security policy, in favour of one that is based on willing cooperation amongst our member states. the appointment of baroness ashton, in particular, as a currently serving commissioner must have been a source of particular happiness for president barroso, though this must not afford an opportunity for the commission to assume greater power in its hands rather than in the hands of the democratic institutions of europe. but having spent a decade obsessed with its own institutions, the european union now needs to get back to business. it is often said that the citizens of our member states do not understand europe, and, if they did, it would be more popular. but this misses a vital point. our citizens do understand europe’s self-absorption only too well. what they do not understand is why so much time, effort and resources are devoted to the institutional processes and so little to the policy outcomes which actually might make a difference to their lives. our citizens can see that our economies are in crisis, that unemployment is rising, that businesses are finding it harder to generate growth, that climate change is getting worse and that other parts of the world are becoming increasingly and dramatically more competitive. yet, when they turn to europe, they find a union which has devoted years to this institutional wrangling. why should they care about the details of qualified majority voting if they have lost their jobs? why should they be interested in the intricacies of codecision if their children face such an uncertain future? i hope that the appointments last week can draw a line under these years of introspection. the european union must now move on and concentrate on the real work at hand, in building dynamic and competitive economies and in creating a strong global trading system and, specifically during the course of the weeks ahead, in securing a really effective agreement on climate change. i admit that the words from the swedish presidency and from president barroso are encouraging in that respect. let us hope that practical delivery in other areas, vital to all of our citizens, can now follow. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
mr president, after the fine words that were spoken then by mr kirkhope regarding the situation that we find ourselves in, my question to him is: do you not feel that you have denied the british people a referendum, which david cameron promised in the uk? you are here now with no mandate and the bottom line is that the people of the uk and in most parts of europe have had no say on lisbon. david cameron should be ashamed of himself. as for the conservatives in this chamber, the way that they vote is to press green, green, green. it is go, go, go all the time. they are pro the eu. i think it is time now that you came clean and told the people back at home where you actually stand.
mr president, i am very sorry that uk domestic politics seem to have taken over here this morning. what i would like to make very clear is i am not ashamed of anything at all that the leader of the conservative party is saying or doing and, in particular, it is clear to all of us that we have always indicated that, if the lisbon treaty had not been ratified, we would have wanted it to be put to the british people. i think that is an honourable position for us to take. i think that those who talk about unreal objectives in relation to europe, those who talk in an extreme and obsessive manner, will do no good to the very people that i have been talking about in my speech – the citizens not only of europe, but the citizens of my country, who want prosperity, who want certainty in their lives and the future. this institutional navel-gazing occurs with these people just as much as it does with any of the institutions of europe.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, you are all very downbeat this morning. i thought this was going to be a big, proud moment! it has taken you eight and a half years of bullying, of lying, of ignoring democratic referendums. eight and a half years it has taken you to get this treaty through, and on 1 december you will have it. of course the architect of all of this, giscard, wanted, from this constitutional treaty, for the european union to have a big, global voice, but i am afraid the leaders have suffered from a collective loss of nerve. they have decided that they want their faces to be up on the global stage, not somebody from the european union, and so we have got appointed a couple of political pygmies. the kissinger question of who to call in europe has not really been answered, has it? i guess the answer can only be mr barroso, because he is the only one that anybody in the world has ever heard of and is probably the big winner out of these posts. no wonder, sir, you look so happy this morning. and we have a new president of europe, herman van rompuy. it does not exactly trip off the tongue, does it? i cannot see him stopping the traffic in beijing or washington; i doubt anybody in brussels would even recognise who he is. and yet he is going to be paid a salary that is bigger than obama’s, which tells you all you need to know about this european political class and how they look after themselves. but at least he is an elected politician, unlike baroness cathy ashton, who really is the true representation of the modern-day political class. in some ways she is ideal, is she not? she has never had a proper job, and she has never been elected to anything in her life. so i guess she is perfect for this european union. (the president asked the speaker to conclude.) she has never been elected to anything and no one knows who she is! even the prime minister was talking about baroness ‘ashdown’ as opposed to ashton. i mean, no one has ever heard of her. she is even less well-known than herman van rompuy! i mean, that takes some doing, does it not? she has risen without trace. she is part of this post-democratic age. she married well: she married an adviser, friend and supporter of tony blair and got put in the house of lords. when she was in the house of lords she was given one big job, and that job was to get the lisbon treaty through the house of lords and to do so pretending that it was entirely different to the eu constitution. so she is good at keeping a straight face, and she vigorously crushed any attempt in the house of lords for the british people to have a referendum. so here she is: never stood for public office, never had a proper job, and here she gets one of the top jobs in the union. her appointment is an embarrassment for britain. (interjection from the floor)well, at least i have been elected, sir, unlike her! she has not been elected, and the people do not have the power to remove her. but just hear the next bit. there is something rather more serious than that. cathy ashton was an active member of the campaign for nuclear disarmament. in fact, she was the treasurer of the campaign for nuclear disarmament during a period of time when cnd took very large donations and refused to reveal the source. what is known is that these donations were obtained by a man called will howard, who was a member of the communist party in great britain. will baroness ashton deny that, while she was treasurer, she took funds from organisations that were opposed to western-style capitalism and democracy? that question must be asked. and are we really happy that somebody who will be in charge of our overseas security policy was an activist a few years ago in an outfit like cnd? if we really think that, frankly, we need our bumps felt! i do not think she is a fit and proper person to do this job. she has no experience and she must answer those questions. did she take money from enemies of the west? that question must be answered. well, we have our two pygmies. we will have the bland leading the bland, but i am not celebrating because they will press on with political union and, whilst our leaders may have saved face for the moment for themselves on the international stage, they have all betrayed their national democracies. the european state is here. we are about to get an avalanche of new laws because of this lisbon treaty and there is no question in my mind that there has to be a full, free, fair referendum in the united kingdom to decide whether we stay part of this union or not. i hope and pray that we vote to leave, but either way the people simply must be asked. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
mr president, with respect, i think the honourable member has completely missed the point, because twice she said ‘the people that were elected last week’. they have not been elected. that is the point that i am making, and, in the case of baroness ashton, she has never been elected to public office in her entire life. she takes an enormously powerful job, and the peoples of europe, of britain, of everywhere else, do not have the power to hold her to account and to remove her, and that, fundamentally, is what is wrong with this whole european union. it is all about bureaucracy versus democracy. things have gone horribly, horribly wrong. but can i please come back and ask you a question, mr president? you seemed to imply that i have said something that was inappropriate, or over the top, or wrong. could you please explain what that was? i want to know.
mr president, when you were elected as president, you said you would act as a neutral president to ensure that all sides of the debate were given their chance to have a say. if you are criticising me on the political content of what i say, then you are not doing your job as a neutral chairman.
mr president, the council meeting will take place less than two weeks after the treaty of lisbon comes into force and we have, as the minister said, been through a long and difficult process to reach this point. but many of us feel that we have missed a critical opportunity. there is still a missing link, a vital democratic element in the relationship between the eu and the people of europe, and that is the sub-state, or regional level of government. many constituents feel that europe is as distant as it ever was and we have to address this urgently. not all of us had a referendum and the opportunity to give our views on the future development of europe, yet there are things happening across the eu that have a direct impact on our work in facing the challenges before us and all of those policy issues that have already been mentioned – employment, social rights, economic regulation, fighting terrorism, peace and justice – and i am proud to speak, incidentally, as chair of the campaign for nuclear disarmament in wales. we are weeks away from the copenhagen summit, the biggest challenge of all. up to 80% of mitigation and adaptation policies will be implemented at the local and regional levels. and many regional governments, like the government in wales, have been leading the way in adopting radical policies to combat climate change. this is where any international agreements made will be delivered. so we must look beyond the member state level to the peoples of europe. on sunday, 13 december, over 150 municipalities in catalonia are holding referendums on independence from spain. how is the eu responding to this? will this be on the council agenda? i very much doubt it, but it should be. europe is changing and i hope that the new president will recognise and respond to this.
mr president, first of all i would like to say that i welcome the new appointment of mr van rompuy and i am particularly proud that we have an extremely able and talented british woman in cathy ashton as the first high representative. regarding the council meeting in december, we have seen the impact of adverse weather this week in cumbria in the north-west of england, which has experienced severe flooding, and it is not just in europe that the weather is creating unexpected hardship. adverse weather is causing other unforeseen human tragedy across our planet. denial is the easy option, but i did not go into politics to fight for easy options. i do not want my children or my grandchildren to ask why i did not act. in my region, the conservatives are represented by roger helmer, who describes man-made climate change as a myth. despite the claims of the tory leader, david cameron, that they are a party of the environment, helmer represents the danger and unreliability of conservative environmental policy. we need to act, but fighting this alone will not work. we need action at all levels, which involves reducing the amount of carbon we produce to at least 2%. i support those like our prime minister, who has pledged to cut carbon emissions by 80% by 2050. the labour government in the uk wants a deal that is ambitious, effective and fair and to support the poorest countries to cut their emissions and adapt to climate change. any climate-financing agreed must be additional to existing development aid targets and it must not come from existing budgets. any funding agreed at copenhagen needs to deal specifically with the effects of climate change on the developing world and should not replace other valuable aid flows. presently, the focus seems to be on near-term, fast-start finance, but we also need long-term commitments. can mr barroso guarantee that he will make post-2012 finance commitments a priority for any copenhagen agreement?
mr president, we stand at the beginning of a new era, and perhaps we should pose ourselves three questions: who, how and what? the ‘who’ was more or less answered last week, and nobody could be more pleased than me. in a week where we started with only three women in the commission, we finish with nine. i can advise some of those that the women meps in suits and ties have stood down for the moment, but they will be back in five years’ time if the process does not improve. next time, please can we have a process where all member states nominate a woman and a man as candidates, so that we do not have the last-minute rush. that is what i want to talk about as well: the ‘how’. this process was untransparent. it has been mentioned that we now have to think about the practical implications of the lisbon treaty. let us make transparency the watchword for our three institutions and how we deal with one another, how we are open to the public. transparency must rule in the future. the ‘what’ must be the focus on our citizens. the new stockholm programme is a good start, much more citizen-centric than any of its predecessors, but we must continue to protect our citizens’ rights, in giving them protection but also making sure that their daily lives are easier across europe.
mr president, i rise under rule 173, regarding rule 2 of the rules of procedure. i quote: ‘members of the european parliament shall exercise their mandate independently’. at the debate on the council and commission statements this morning, you, mr president, said that mr farage’s remarks were unacceptable. as a new member of this house, i would like you to clarify, with respect to rule 2, whether a member of this house is free to express his or her opinions without any censorship.
rapporteur. − mr president, we do not have to spend a lot of time on this because the non-inscrits are not worth spending a lot of time on. we are not voting on this. if they bothered to turn up at the committees to which they are entitled to turn up, they would know that we are not voting on this today but we are going to vote on this in january. i will be sticking to my recommendation that you, mr president, invite a non-inscrit to attend the conference of presidents.
mr president, the first duty of any assembly is to hold the executive to account. we are here as the people’s tribunes. there should be a creative tension between us and the executive – that is, the commission. but when it comes to these budgetary questions, the european parliament, uniquely among the elected assemblies of the world, sides with the executive against its own constituents, in the cause of deeper integration. every year the european budget grows; every year we have the report from the court of auditors that shows tens of billions of euros being lost or stolen. and yet we do not do the one thing which we are empowered to do, which is to withhold supply, in other words, to say that we will not hand over any more money until the accounting procedures have been put in order. yet again we are waving through this budget despite all the errors in it and thereby betraying those who put us here, who are our constituents and also our taxpayers, because the majority of people in this house take a ‘europe right or wrong attitude’ and would rather see things being badly done by brussels than competently done by the member states.
mr president, i have said it many times before and i will no doubt say it again: whatever the motives of its founders, the european union has long since ceased to be an ideological project and it has become a racket, a way of redistributing money from people outside the system to people within it. hence, the thing we are talking about today – these bungs to selected favoured companies. let us pass over the suspicious timing of the grant to dell in ireland that was announced with questionable procedural propriety in the run-up to the irish referendum on the european constitution or lisbon treaty. let us just make the wider point that we have tried this before as a continent: in the 1970s we went down the road towards propping up uncompetitive industries, with disastrous consequences. we know where that road leads. it ends in stagnation, inflation and ultimately in collective bankruptcy. let us not go there a second time.
mr president, i was interested to read the first sentence, where it says that the fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. but have we not always had major changes in world trade patterns? in my constituency of london we had textile companies that responded and prepared for globalisation by outsourcing some of their functions to poorer countries, thereby creating jobs in developing countries, but keeping high-value research and development and marketing jobs in london, in the constituency, in the european union. why then, if these companies can respond, are we rewarding inefficient textile and it companies who bury their heads in the sand and hope that globalisation will go away? surely this money should be returned to taxpayers so they can spend it as they see fit. surely it is time for governments to focus on creating the right conditions so that, when jobs are lost, entrepreneurs can come along and create new jobs.
mr president, at his first press conference as the new president or as the appointee, mr van rompuy declared that the copenhagen process would be a step towards the global management of our planet. i cannot be alone in being alarmed at the way in which the environmental agenda is being piggybacked by those who have a different agenda about the shifting of power away from national democracies. environmentalism is too important to be left to just one side of the political debate to apply its solutions. as a conservative, i consider myself a natural conservationist. it was marx who taught that nature was a resource to be exploited, a doctrine that found brutal realisation in the smokestack industries of the comecon states, but we have never tried the free market solutions of extending property rights, of having clean air and clean water by allowing ownership, rather than the tragedy of the commons, where you expect state action and global technocracies to achieve these ends. environmentalism is altogether too important to be left.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank you and your officials for your patience during this explanation of vote. mr. president, a former british home secretary, willie whitelaw, once told a successor in that office that it was the best job in the cabinet because one did not have to deal with any foreigners. no home secretary in any member state could say that today. there has been the most extraordinary harmonisation in the justice and home affairs field. on everything from immigration and asylum, visas, civil law, criminal justice and policing, we have effectively given the european union that ultimate attribute of statehood: a monopoly of coercive legal force over its citizens, that is to say a system of criminal justice. when did we ever decide to do this? when were our voters ever consulted? i accept it has not been done in secret. there was no conspiracy about it, or at least it was perhaps what h. g. wells called an open conspiracy, but at no stage have we had the courtesy to ask people whether they want to be citizens of a state with its own legal system.
in writing. − british conservatives have been unable to approve discharge of the 2007 european budget, european council section. for the 14th consecutive year, the european court of auditors has only been able to give a qualified statement of assurance for the accounts of the european union. we note the auditors’ remarks that around 80% of the transactions of the eu are carried out by agencies working within the member states under joint management agreements. the auditors consistently report that levels of control and scrutiny of the use of eu funds within the member states are inadequate. in order to address this ongoing problem, the council entered into an interinstitutional agreement in 2006 which obliged them to produce certification for those transactions for which they are responsible. we are dismayed to note that, to date, the majority of the member states have not satisfactorily delivered on their obligation and therefore, despite the traditional ‘gentleman’s agreement’ between parliament and council, we will not grant discharge until such time as the member states fulfil their obligations under the interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the compromise package on tyre labelling. this parliament deals with many issues which appear extremely technical and, at first glance, are not high on many people's political agenda; this is perhaps one such issue. however, closer examination reveals that almost a quarter of co2 emissions come from road transport and that tyres play a significant role in determining fuel efficiency. this proposed legislation therefore plays an important part in wider eu efforts to tackle global warming.
in writing. − under the old rule 36 of this parliament we were required to ‘pay particular attention to respect for fundamental rights’. in the new rule 36 we must ‘fully respect’ those rights as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights. this is a subtle change but one which i consider to be important and which binds all meps to upholding the rights of all citizens.
in writing. − in the resolution adopted by the ep, a specific chapter stresses the great importance of regions and local authorities in the consultation, information and implementation of the climate policy. up to 80% of mitigation and adaptation policies will happen at the regional and local level. several regional or sub-state governments are leading the way on radical policies to fight climate change. as members of the european free alliance representing european nations and regions, we fully support the direct involvement of sub-state bodies and regional governments in the promotion of sustainable development and the efficient response to climate change. in this context, the work of the network of regional governments for sustainable development (nrg4sd) has to be underlined. this network has already set up a partnership with the united nations development programme and the united nations environment programme. we therefore call for the explicit recognition of regional governments in the context of the copenhagen agreement, recognising the key role they are playing in mitigation and adaptation policies.
in writing. − next month the eyes of the world will be on denmark. across the north sea, in a country of similar size, the scottish government is making a vital contribution to climate change efforts. according to the official website of the copenhagen summit, scotland has taken on ‘world leadership on climate protection’. the efforts of the scottish government are to be fully supported and we must hope that other nations add their weight to global efforts next month.
in writing. − whilst the ecr group supports much of what is contained in the stockholm programme, such as cooperation and solidarity over issues of policing, fighting cross-border crime and corruption, protecting fundamental rights, and finding solutions for immigration by seeking to assist those countries in southern europe that face serious immigration problems, we do not support proposals for a european security strategy, or measures which would hand over control of our criminal justice system and asylum policy to the eu, or calls for ‘compulsory and irrevocable solidarity’. we believe in cooperation rather than compulsion; and therefore we voted against this report.
in writing. − the ecr rejected the motion for a resolution tabled by other groups in the transport committee concerning passenger compensation in the event of airlines bankruptcy. we in the ecr tabled our own motion for a resolution which would have rectified a number of key weaknesses in the adopted text for the following reasons. although supporting passenger rights is of course of vital importance, there are more efficient measures that can be taken without passengers being burdened with even higher costs. 1. we should await the impact assessment that was proposed by commissioner tajani during the plenary session on 7 october. 2. the text that has been supported calls for the establishment of a ‘guarantee’ fund that would be used to compensate passengers in case of airlines bankruptcy. however, the establishment of such a fund would inevitably have to be funded by the consumer, meaning passengers would be required to pay even more for their tickets. at this stage, this unnecessary step would add to the sizeable list of existing airport taxes, security charges and other duties that they are already forced to pay. (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 170).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr group strongly supports european enlargement. by extending the benefits of eu membership to those countries that are eligible under article 49, we hope to see develop the looser, more flexible europe in which we believe as a group. i happen to be the permanent rapporteur for montenegro, which is a good news story in terms of progress towards membership, and it has just applied fairly recently. nevertheless, i will also be visiting that country soon to make up my own mind and have an independent assessment. i also welcome the fact that iceland may be a candidate soon. but, still in the balkans, croatia’s bilateral border dispute with slovenia must not be a barrier to joining the eu, and i hope that macedonia will also be opening negotiations shortly. with regard to turkey, there remain many concerns over human rights, the ongoing blockade of armenia, religious freedoms and the refusal to admit cypriot ships to turkish ports. it was also regrettable, in my mind, that turkey recently invited to the oic summit in istanbul president bashir of sudan, a man indicted by the international criminal court for the horrors of darfur. finally, although ukraine is a country not directly linked to this debate, i hope also that, regardless of the results of the impending presidential elections in ukraine, the eu will continue to hold out the possibility of eventual eu membership for ukraine, if that is indeed the majority view of the people of ukraine. by the same token, that should apply to moldova and, one day, to belarus, if it becomes a democratic country.
you seem to be very impressed with what mr van rompuy has to say. do you not think that most people would be more impressed by the fact that only 3% of the land mass of turkey is in the continent of europe at all, and this proposition that turkey should become a full member of the european union is, on geographical grounds, completely bizarre?
madam president, all i would ask for is more honesty in our dealings with turkey and a correct and fair interpretation of events, particularly in relation to cyprus where a distorted version of recent history has unfortunately become the accepted wisdom. there is a real opportunity between now and the presidential elections in northern cyprus in april which should be seized, and this is a matter for all sides. we should always remember that the turkish cypriots agreed the un plan for reunification in april 2004. it was rejected by the south. we should also remember the may 2004 promise of the european union to end the isolation of northern cyprus, a promise which was never fulfilled. the eu has a moral duty here. i fear that if we go on treating turkish interests in this way, we risk losing a key ally in a strategic area of great importance and encouraging all the wrong tendencies in turkey itself. of course many of us are deeply concerned about migration problems in relation to our nations. this is an aspect of our negotiations with turkey that will have to be dealt with in a particular and robust way. if i had time i would also make reference to croatia and other countries in south-eastern europe which urgently need to address corruption, organised crime and abuse of certain private property rights before accession, in the case of croatia, or candidacy can be taken forward with confidence.
madam president, the countries proposed for eu membership are comparatively poor. their european dream, to quote the commissioner, is that they will receive subsidies. that is what it is about. the fact is that rich countries, for example norway and switzerland, simply do not want to join the eu. to make the telling point, iceland, when it was a rich country, had no interest in joining the european union. now that it is bankrupt, and sadly so, the icelandic government is of course in the queue to join. the san andreas fault for the european union is between the seven member states who are large net contributors, and the rest. this situation is unstable, untenable and unsustainable. you think you are enlarging the eu empire by this ill thought-out policy. in fact you are driving it towards economic chaos in the future.
madam president, today’s debate and resolution gives the new european parliament the opportunity to recommit itself to the further enlargement of the european union, to note the positive developments that there are in the candidate countries, in almost every individual case, and to remind ourselves that freeing up trade, buttressing stability, improving control of our borders and expanding the opportunities for travel and free exchange for our peoples, strengthen – not weaken – our european union. the european conservatives repeat today that they say they favour enlargement but, at the same time, exclude it from the founding document of their new group whose official spokesperson, speaking in this debate, repeats his opposition to turkey, thus putting them in exactly the same camp as the far right as we have all heard this afternoon. however, i do express my warm thanks to commission olli rehn, whose good humour was reflected by his recent comment that, in future, the directorate-general for enlargement should not be an equal distance from either the council or the commission, in the middle of rue de la loi. i appreciate his good humour and i appreciate his good judgement. i hope his legacy will be the accession of all current eu candidate countries.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, violence against women, especially in the domestic environment, is an issue that needs to be debated and i congratulate the chair of the femm committee for bringing it to the forefront. we need, however, to recognise this issue is not only a gender issue. it is not only an equality issue. indeed, it is not only a human rights issue, but is a criminal law issue in the first instance. and because it is a criminal law issue, it is a sovereign state matter, and it is up to the nation state to lead. according to the council of europe, one in four women will experience domestic violence in their lifetime. the eu can be proactive in this area by providing resources for education and increased awareness and by opening up the debate on violence against not only women but also against men: according to the uk home office one in six men will suffer domestic violence. i recently visited elevate, a women’s refuge in london, to talk to victims of domestic violence. they are from all socioeconomic groups. there is no such thing as a stereotype. violence affects the victim, their families and children. its effects are both insular and outgoing and destroy lives. the road to rebuilding these lives is long and needs support. elevate’s project offers victims a safe haven and supports them in rebuilding their confidence and ability to function in society. projects like this need support, and need financial support. the eu can be proactive by breaking down some of the taboos around violence against women – and men. it is an area which we as a society can no longer afford to ignore.
i have received one motion for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 26 november 2009. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the council and commission statements on a political solution with regard to the piracy off the somalian coast.
i have received six motions for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday 26 november 2006). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on smoke-free environments by edite estrela, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, (o-0119/2009 – b7-0225/2009).
madam president, people have the right to smoke but i bow to no one in saying that others should not have to breathe in the smoke at the workplace or any establishment that is breathed out by others. personally i hate the stuff – just loathe the stuff – and i welcome the ban that has been introduced in my country. but i do not think the decision should be taken at european level. i do not think we should be calling for binding legislation to apply to every member state. i am a federalist but i am not a centralist. decisions should be taken at the lowest practical level and, in this case, that is the member state, or indeed the regional government, as in scotland, the first area of my country to go smoke-free. it is so easy to disregard the principle of subsidiarity when we think we are doing good. in this case i think we are trying to do good, but with the lisbon treaty now adopted we should be bending over backwards to respect that principle.
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutestabled in accordance with rule 115(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday 26 november 2009). written statements (rule 149)
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues who have already contributed. the first point i would like to make is that i think the recent spike in world food prices serves as a wake-up call to all of us. the doubling of grain and rice prices has had a disproportionate impact on some of the poorest people in developing countries around the world. indeed, it is estimated that an extra 75 million people around the world went hungry as a direct result of the higher food prices in 2007 and 2008. that is something we have to take very, very seriously. indeed, in many countries we have seen food riots and political instability as a result of the spike in food prices. with world population predicted to rise to over nine billion and climate change predicted to have a major impact on our ability to feed ourselves, food security is, i would argue, a major issue that we must confront and address and find solutions to. the european union must do all it can to help developing countries to develop sustainable farming and food production systems that enable them to feed themselves. that requires finance – as the commissioner outlined in his statement – and it requires open markets. here there is a recognition that europe has gone a long way to assist in opening up and liberalising markets. but also many of the problems that developing countries face result from a failure of politics and a failure of the legal system. no amount of help will actually correct that problem until you have got a stable political system and a stable legal system that allows farmers to flourish and to reap the benefits of higher market prices. it is estimated that eu production will have to rise by over 70% just to meet rising demand in the future. i would argue that european agriculture has a major role to play, not only ensuring that we are self-sufficient here, but also ensuring that we can contribute to global food security in the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, our resolutions on this issue address the dual challenges of eradicating hunger – which currently affects one sixth of the world’s population – and securing a food supply for the future. we are facing a situation whereby, on one hand, the world’s population is growing, while, on the other, food production is proving to be an ever more challenging endeavour owing to the negative effects of climate change and rising costs associated with food production. while the agricultural element of food security is undoubtedly key to solving this problem, we should also firmly focus on how good governance in developing countries is absolutely necessary if we are to have any chance of successfully tackling world hunger. take zimbabwe, for example, which mr deß has already referred to. it was once known as the bread-basket of africa, and was once able to feed itself and many neighbouring countries. now it is unable to do so, after being destroyed by the actions of robert mugabe and his henchmen. we have all got to work together to overcome this problem and prevent the civil unrest and misery that could arise from it.
madam president, both the untied nations and the european union have agreed that the growing world population is going to demand greater global output of agricultural productivity of the order of a 50-100% increase. we accept that. we accept the commissioner’s point of view, not only because we accept it but because it is a target that the world cannot afford to miss. but, at the same time, agriculture is being asked to do it using less land, less water, less energy, less greenhouse gases. so there are three points which we need to understand. firstly, governments – and the eu in particular – must invest more in research and development; we simply do not have the information upon which to base a plan for the future. secondly, faced with volatility in global markets, we need a safety net from the common agricultural policy. and, thirdly, food security, and all that it implies to the european union, involves cost. these are costs which we cannot pass on to consumers, and therefore i repeat: we need a strong agricultural policy, and we have to win the argument in the budget debate.
madam president, during the world summit on food security, secretary-general ban ki-moon, said ‘the food crisis of today is a wake-up call for tomorrow’. by 2050 our planet may be home to 9.1 billion people, over two billion more than today – a staggering figure and one which will mean that farmers will have to grow 70% more food. farmers in northern ireland want to help to meet that need. however, most of them believe that europe is hindering their ability to produce more food by forcing a reduction in stocking rates through nitrate and phosphate regulations, red tape, a lack of research and development within the industry, and hence an attitude that food security is not an issue. cap reform will determine the farmers’ ability to produce food. it will also influence the price of food. if farmers are not supported by europe through direct payments, the price of food will have to increase to meet production costs. my aim is to promote food production within northern ireland and food security within europe. this will only be achieved by allowing farmers to farm. cap reform will play a huge part in this, and food security should be a central component of our work as this cap reform goes ahead.
madam president, in 18th-century england, thomas malthus predicted that population increase would exceed food supply. now, in many ways his ideas have been discredited because we have had a series of agricultural revolutions which have transformed our society. but his words were also true: in the lifetimes of many of us, world population has trebled – trebled, quite incredible – and, in too many parts of the world, that has exceeded our food supply. we need to be doing more if we want to prevent hunger and control population growth, and the way of doing that is to ensure that women everywhere have control over their reproductivity. and we have got to save the lives of children. the best way of reducing population growth is to save the lives of youngsters, so that people do not feel the need to have bigger families. here in the western world we are addicted to eating meat: a massive waste of resources. all i can say is – and i see my time is up, madam president – as someone who gave up eating meat 20 years ago, if we want to save the world and prevent hunger, then we eat green, not red.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her statement, where she outlined that the range of protections and measures are there to ensure that third-country imports are meeting the highest standards possible. i want to look in particular at the fvo report from brazil. proper traceability systems and designated holdings in brazil are at the heart of the measures that the eu has requested be put in place to prevent any threat or risk of contaminated meat products being imported into the eu from that country. they are fundamental in guaranteeing to eu consumers, farmers and taxpayers that there are no risks. let us not forget that foot-and-mouth disease is still a serious problem in brazil. yet the commission’s fvo report in february highlighted a catalogue of failures: 50% of the farms which were inspected which were designated for exports to the eu had problems. 25% of these with serious problems, with missing ear tags identified, cattle on farms which could not be identified – they had no idea where they came from. there was a lack of documentation; there were conflict-of-interest issues; eu inspectors found that one of the government supervisors just happened to be married to the person responsible for cattle identification – and it turned out that they actually own some of the cattle on that holding where the stock records were inaccurate. my concern, commissioner, is that the summary of that fvo report stated that all the controls were generally satisfactory. but i am sorry, the content does not support that conclusion whatsoever, and we must, as a group of nations, be on our guard. i do not need to remind the house of the impact a major disease outbreak can have on taxpayers, farmers and customers. in the last major disease outbreak in the uk which you referred to in your speech, foot and mouth erupted and we destroyed a million animals and it cost our taxpayers gbp 4 billion. that is the kind of risk we run if we do not get this right, so we must be vigilant. i am not asking for restrictions to be put on brazil; what i am asking from the commissioner here tonight is an assurance that this matter is taken seriously and that the commission makes sure that the failings identified in the report are corrected in the next report. we need to see a clean bill of health to reassure farmers, taxpayers and consumers that they are protected and that free and fair trade can resume between brazil and the eu.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would also like to thank the commissioner for her very full statement – possibly one of the fullest and most substantive statements we have heard from a commissioner lately. this issue does merit it and, as one of the last veterans of the first battle of brazilian beef, it is a pleasure to see so many familiar faces in the chamber tonight. i hope that indicates that we are interested and serious regarding this issue. we support you in what you are saying about the import controls and about fmd. frankly, that is not quite what this issue is about, and that is why i am so glad that those who wanted to broaden this issue out to imports from third countries have achieved that aim. it is not just about brazilian beef. it is about the wider principle that our consumers, our voters and our farmers demand that imports from those countries which would seek to bring their produce here meet our standards – and that means meet all our standards. so it troubles me to hear you accept the fact that brazil has lower standards of traceability than we do because it might not create such a disease risk coming into the territory of the european union. our consumers expect exactly the same standards in all things coming into the european union. i accept your point if you are talking about strict disease control, but we are talking about equity and fairness. our consumers demand – and our farmers demand and we, frankly, demand – that we have exactly the same standards of traceability across brazil and across all third countries. for an fvo report to come back that said 50% of the inspections failed or had problems with them is just like throwing red meat to a pack of hungry wolves, as you perhaps see this evening. can you assure us: when is the next fvo report, and will you actually take it seriously and ban whichever countries fail to meet our standards?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the first thing i want to make clear here tonight is that this is not about third-country imports. this is about brazilian beef coming into europe. that is what it is about. i am saddened that i stand here tonight and we do not have a resolution. i do not know why, but i understand that some of the big groups in this parliament were not prepared to stand up to the brazilian ambassador who lobbied last week in brussels. that goes for the socialist group and i will let the liberals answer for themselves, for i understand they did not stand up at the conference of presidents and allow us to have a resolution before us. i want to make it very clear. the brazilian ambassador did not lobby me. maybe he did not think i was worth coming to see; i do not know. or maybe he thought i was too hard a nut to crack because – let me make it very clear here tonight – in the future, commissioner, i have to say to you that you in the commission are no longer going to tie the hands of the farmers of europe behind their backs on meat standards which they meet every day of the week and then come here and lecture us about the wto and everything else. i have to say to you, commissioner, that we are here for the next five years. i do not know how long you are going to be there, but you, if you are there, or whoever takes your place, are going to have to satisfy us in every way, shape, size and form as to how the meat that comes into europe has got to be of the same standard as the meat we produce. we will not accept second best any more. you are not going to destroy us any more. i hope you pass that on to your officials because we cannot be expected to accept this on behalf of those who are our producers in europe.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i too want to raise serious concerns about the safety and suitability of brazilian beef exports. unregulated meat is imported from thousands of miles away at the expense of native farmers. the meat brings with it the risk of contamination such as foot-and-mouth disease, as we have heard tonight. the lack of strict regulation in brazil means exporters also have an unfair competitive advantage over european farmers. the extent of hypocrisy on the matter of foreign beef exportations is made even more apparent in the context of climate change discussions. whilst we are told we must commit to an ambitious climate change agenda, the eu turns a blind eye to the fact that the brazilian beef export industry is responsible for 80% of deforestation in the amazon rainforest. before a ban in 2007, 30 000 premises in brazil exported beef to the eu. today only 12% of those exports are authorised, but more and more premises are approved for eu exportation daily. around 100 farms per month are given that right. at the start of this issue, the food and veterinary office reported significant problems in brazil with the certification of farms and traceability of livestock. there are grave concerns about unidentified cattle in slaughterhouses. it is also widely held that many inspectors have strong connections with, or even own, the farms being granted authority to export beef. european farmers must abide by rules put in place for the safety of the consumer. the fact that their foreign counterparts do not work under the same regulations gives overseas exporters an unfair competitive advantage. the uk beef industry faces real problems from producers outside the eu, who can mass export meat at much lower prices. some of the world’s largest retailers, such as carrefour and wal-mart, have already banned brazilian beef on the grounds of the deforestation the industry is responsible for. each year, an area in the amazon the size of belgium is cleared for the lucrative beef export industry. it is estimated that cattle rearing is responsible for 80% of illegal deforestation. it amazes me how there is one set of rules for british and european farmers and another for farmers in brazil. which agricultural industry does the eu and the commission actually support? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
madam president, i would welcome much of what mr bufton was saying, but i would take issue and question him on one of his phrases there. he said that unregulated meat was imported into the eu. you said that, mr bufton, quite early in your presentation. given the 15-minute presentation we heard from the commissioner earlier on, would you accept that that is just clearly not the case; that your sort of hyperbole undermines the case in the serious discussion we are having here tonight about a very technical piece of legislation and regulation; and that you are not actually helping the case, you are hindering it?
madam president, i will answer that. certainly if we look at what is happening with meat coming into the country from brazil and countries like that, where we know there are problems with it, that is unregulated, of course. it is quite simple. the whole issue is there: it is quite clear. so i know the point you are making is a very important point, but i am telling you now that there is unregulated meat coming in from these countries. why on earth have we got this situation now, within the european union? we have got meat coming across – we have heard tonight about how this meat is not being inspected in these places, in slaughterhouses and so forth, and i mentioned earlier on about the fact that we had the food and veterinary office reporting these issues. that is clearly the case. we are on the same side with this one.
madam president, i thank the commissioner for her lengthy and full statement. like many here in this chamber tonight, commissioner, i have been a little bit mystified by your acceptance that there is nothing that we can do in relation to the import of meat from third world countries. just earlier in your statement, you said that just as third countries cannot impose standards in the eu, so the eu cannot impose standards on other countries. now, for many of our farmers that would seem an unfair position to have, and i would respectfully suggest tonight that, yes, we can impose standards until we are sure. and, until we get food and veterinary reports that actually tell us that there is compliance with the regulations that we have looked at, then we should not import beef from those countries. many of our farmers are suffering under the huge strain of production and feel the unfairness, and i think that you can hear in this chamber tonight the anger that many feel in relation to this particular issue.
madam president, i was happy to hear that the commissioner is determined to maintain food standards in the eu, but there are two issues that i want to pull her up on. firstly, commissioner, you talked about posters in airports. i have got to tell you that i have never seen any warnings or any checks carried out in airports in the eu on imported food products. i suggest you reinvestigate that, because it is not happening to the extent that you think it is. secondly, i am not convinced about your argument regarding brazilian beef. i went there myself, saw matters on the ground and support previous speakers in this regard. farmers in the eu conform to the world’s highest standards, and rightly so. however, these imply a level of cost which we cannot pass on to our consumers. it is therefore grossly unfair to expose european producers and consumers to a product which simply does not conform to the same standards as we are expected to achieve. past experience has shown us that you cannot leave it to commercial interests to resolve this problem. you have to have a sound eu food policy. that is not protectionism – it is a common agricultural policy doing precisely what it was intended to do, which is to supply an assured quantity and quality of food. the two points i have made show it to be falling very short.
madam president, my region of south-west england is blessed with a particular blend of climate and landscape which produces good grazing and excellent beef. british farmers are amongst the most efficient in the world and they work, after bitter experience, to the highest standards of animal welfare and traceability. all these factors, coupled with a growing world population and increased efforts to ensure food security, should mean that they are a happy lot. nothing could be further from the truth. they find themselves under attack on many fronts. only this week we see that this parliament will be entertaining the vegetarian lobby, claiming that meat eaters and, by association, farmers, are climate criminals. yet they see the eu failing to be rigorous in dealing with countries where they are clearing rain forests to raise cattle. how can the consumer see any logic? beef farmers are not asking for special privileges – just a level playing field. it is absolutely vital that we support them, not by protectionism, but by making sure that all exports to the eu match their high standards. i urge you, commissioner, to sharpen up your act, stiffen your backbone, reread your fvo report and deliver.
madam president, the debate prior to this was about hunger. these two debates are linked. the commissioner is right to do what she can to ensure consumer protection in europe, and colleagues in this chamber are right to hold her to account and to hold the highest standards. but beef is a cash crop. it is produced as cheaply as countries can produce it. tragically, to produce one kilogram of beef takes 100 times more water than to produce one kilogram of soya. if we are concerned about consumer protection worldwide, we will do two things. first, we will help third countries more to develop the kinds of systems of traceability that they need, and second, we will follow the advice of my colleague chris davies in the last debate in encouraging all of our citizens to stop eating meat.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i am sorry to dissent, but as an experienced accountant i do not share my colleagues’ optimism about the opinion of the auditors. the court of auditors’ annual report on the 2008 accounts shows no significant improvement. 10 years after the resignation of the santer commission, and many promises of reform, the eu’s funds continue to be out of control. the auditors state that the accounts are fair but fail to state that they are true, and indeed it is difficult to say they are true if they go on to express concern about the quality of the financial information. the report reveals that, 10 years after the initiation of the administrative reform, the european commission does not operate an integrated accounting system, and that directorates introduce transactions in their local systems, some of which have not even been blessed by the chief accountant of the european commission. moreover, on the legality and regularity of the eu expenditure, the auditors only cleared 9% of the expenses for the year 2008, a percentage similar to the past. they give an adverse opinion on 43% of the budget, the part that relates to cohesion funds, research, energy and transport, external aid, development and enlargement. for the remaining 48% they give a qualified opinion. such a report would call for the resignation of the board of auditors of any company and its subsequent liquidation, but here nobody is worried. the auditors even identified an amount of eur 1.5 billion that, in their own words, should not have been paid. the first argument you will hear is that the auditors are not saying that it is fraud, but only errors. they will say that fraud requires criminal intent, and we have to prove this, and then we need to call the police. the second argument that you will hear is that the rules are too complex. they have been saying this for years, but the rules have not changed, so should we then blame the european commission for maintaining complex rules that encourage errors? the third argument is that it is the member countries which should be blamed for the errors. well, the treaties clearly specify that the european commission is responsible for the management of the european union funds, and in fact it is the only body empowered to stop payments when it does not receive sufficient evidence that the funds are properly spent. the fact is that these errors mean that taxpayers’ money has been abused. but, to be honest, nobody cares about this. it is just taxpayers’ money we are dealing with. it is only the money of people who are now struggling to pay their mortgages and educate their children. but all this is not enough. on top of the eur 116 billion payments for the year 2008 that have been audited by the court of auditors, another eur 40 billion has gone out of the european union coffers. thirty-five per cent of the budget is now hidden in a balance sheet account under the name of ‘prefinancing’ and for which the auditors cannot tell the european taxpayers if it has been properly spent. these additional advance payments have been made precisely in the areas where the court of auditors found the biggest number of errors. for how long is this parliament going to allow taxpayers’ money to be abused?
mr president, i welcome the report of the court of auditors and welcome a clean set of accounts without an adverse report on these accounts for the eu for the first time, especially after so many years of falling foul of this important process and a mission that would have put any private company in breach of multiple eu directives. however, i would like to concentrate on the area of continued significant weakness, namely the area of structural and cohesion funds. while the commission may consider it is an achievement that only 11% of the largest part of the budget – cohesion spending – contained errors, i consider it a shocking fact that it has been determined that almost eur 5 billion of a eur 46 billion budget should never have been paid out, as described by the court of auditors. i have to say that my region of wales, already in receipt of structural funds from that eur 46 billion pot, could happily have spent and accounted for the spending of that additional eur 5 billion. wales has not had to return any funds for mis-spending, despite the uk as a whole not receiving a clean bill of health. errors seem to be at the level of implementing institutions, and therefore i ask that the european parliament and commission call for the individual member states to provide a thorough audit for the funds received. in wales the welsh assembly government, via the various institutions, administers eu structural and cohesion funds and, therefore, to conduct a formal audit could not be too onerous. however, currently, projects which were funded some seven years ago by the eu are only now undergoing financial audit by the court of auditors. i am not sure what this achieves. we need an annual contemporary signing-off which can identify errors and ensure compliance to the highest standard. when taxpayers’ money is at stake, as it is across the eu in the case of the regional budget, standards of accountability can never be too high.
mr president, european finances do cause great concern to my constituents and to people in britain. the uk is after all the second-largest net contributor to the european budget, so other member states might benefit from remembering, when they are debating this money, that a large part of it comes from british taxpayers’ pockets. if there is one single issue that drives a wedge between british people and brussels, it is a perception that their money may be treated frivolously within the eu. the same is true in other countries as well. this is not just a debate about a set of accounts, but a fundamental breakdown in trust between the institutions represented here and the people we represent back at home. we must take note of this auditors’ opinion. yes, it is better than previous years, but just as a businessman thinks twice before doing trade with a company that has in any way a qualified opinion, so our residents will think twice about their relationship with the eu so long as qualifications remain. we cannot pretend it is the auditors’ fault. auditors do not spend money: bureaucracies and governments do, both here and in our home countries. we must clean up their acts. however, even a clean audit opinion in itself is not enough. ever since i was 18 years old i have received a monthly statement from my bank. the numbers add up. the audit opinion would be clean. but i know i have not always spent my money wisely. if we are to deserve even a shred of respect from our taxpayers back at home, then in this dire economic time we must treat their money with respect. my message to politicians both in our home countries across the eu and in this unnecessary, expensive second chamber in strasbourg is that we must stop wasting taxpayers’ money.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, for book-lovers in my constituency in the east midlands and eu-wide this is good news. i believe this is a book revolution about to begin, and i welcome the commission statement. the initiative by google is an inevitable and logical step forward given the advancement of the digital economy with new market drivers and new consumer demands. i believe this kind of private sector innovation should be welcomed as long as it allows space for competition in the future and fair protection. libraries, whilst an important store of information, are vastly underused resources, with nine out of ten books not being accessed, and there are many thousands of books unavailable to consumers due to their being out of print or the non-viability of publication. online books will provide authors with the opportunity to gain some recognition and indeed some money back for their works. however, the fact that this kind of settlement providing mass digitisation of books cannot be applied to the eu is one of the most illustrative examples of the eu's fragmented copyright laws. we have to make a european copyright framework fit for purpose in the 21st century. europe must seize the opportunity to take the lead and to ensure that the digitisation of books in europe is facilitated, but also that the google books settlement takes into consideration european copyright law. we should encourage european players into this space as well in different languages and genres. for those like me who like the feel of a page between their fingers, this will not replace the need for fabulous bookshops like those in my east midlands constituency. indeed, far from doing away with bookshops, the ability to access online books provides us with a whole new way of learning and access to culture. far from destroying our libraries, it will help them to be archived and protected and provide our consumers with more choice of how they access books for the education and pleasure. it is an opportunity for authors to expand their market and their audience. i believe this is the beginning of a rediscovery of great works and the uncovering of a cultural explosion. it is something we should welcome and positively encourage.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
colleagues, i now have an announcement to make which is perhaps very appropriate as we have just voted on our report on the 2009 enlargement strategy. i am very pleased to inform you that we have with us here today a delegation of members of the croatian parliament, the sabor. (applause). they are led by mr mario zubović, who has just concluded the tenth meeting of the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee. dear members of the sabor, we welcome you to our european parliament here in strasbourg. as you can see, we debated about enlargement this week and we want croatia to join the european union as soon as possible. (applause) you are of course facing the last and challenging rounds of the negotiation and we warmly encourage you to step up your preparation efforts. dear colleagues, we look forward to welcoming croatian observers to the european parliament very soon and we look forward to sitting with you in this house in the course of this parliamentary term. many thanks for your visit here today.
in writing.? - the ukip admires volunteering and recognises the contribution to society it can make. however, this report called for the naked politicisation of volunteering for eu purposes, and for the use of the british taxpayers’ money to achieve this politicisation. thus, we could not support the motion.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal in recognition of the many volunteers who do invaluable work without the recognition they deserve. without their contribution to society, for which they receive no monetary remuneration, the united kingdom would be a lesser place. while against the whole principle of european citizenship, i recognise the value of the service provided by volunteers. therefore i supported this proposal.
in writing. − despite the request for a budget increase which i opposed and voted against at the committee stages, i nonetheless fully support the report on the european year of volunteering overall. volunteers are often unsung heroes. they make an immeasurable impact in their communities and on people’s lives. in tough economic times like these, volunteering becomes all the more important and that is why i and others who brought this report forward are keen not only to raise awareness of the benefits of volunteering, but also to create a european year where properly-funded initiatives will provide volunteering organisations the opportunity to encourage new volunteers to come forward. we must ensure that the european year of volunteering is used as a platform for recognition of the contribution volunteers make to our communities, but also use this as an opportunity for us to better understand the barriers to volunteering and what we can do to help remove them and push volunteering forward. this is an example of what the eu should be doing – exchanging best practice in areas such as volunteering rather than creating more and more needless bureaucracy.
in writing. − the ukip is not opposed to cooperation in the field of energy efficiency, but insists that such cooperation must be conducted by democratically elected governments and not by their unaccountable proxies in an anti-democratic supranational organisation such as the eu.
in writing. − i welcome parliament’s commitment to this cause. in particular it is critical to ensure that the women in some of the most vulnerable circumstances, such as in ‘trafficking of women’, fall under this assistance. i am appalled that the ecr group, which contains the british conservatives, has submitted an amendment to this proposal which reduces its coverage. i would point out that many victims are those who live in poverty or are immigrants or from minority groups within our populations. removing these women from assistance aimed at helping these most vulnerable people is as illogical as it is inhuman. i am equally appalled that the greens should disagree and promote deletion of sensible wording covering tolerance of prostitution, where it is clear much violence against women occurs.
in writing. − the ecr group fully supports and stresses the great need to increase awareness and action to combat violence against women. however, we do not support calls for an eu legal base and further directives (as in paragraphs 10, 11 and 27) to address the problem. whilst we acknowledge that work needs to be done in this area, we believe this is an issue for nation states to legislate upon. furthermore, the ecr group believes that the issues of sexual and reproductive choice and health rights are an issue of conscience for each individual member and member state to decide. for these reasons, the ecr group has chosen to abstain.
in writing. − i am deeply proud to see the uk leading the work of the eu’s first naval esdp mission, operation atalanta, with a british commander at its head and its operational hq in the uk. atalanta’s work in the protection of vessels delivering food aid to displaced persons in somalia and in protecting vulnerable vessels off the somali coast is vitally important. labour meps echo calls for the unconditional release of all hostages including the two britons – paul and rachel chandler from kent – held by somali pirates. our thoughts continue to be with their family, and we praise the ongoing efforts of the uk foreign office, who are using all possible connections in east africa to negotiate the pair’s speedy release. finally, on the scope of the atalanta mission, we note calls in the resolution for its expansion to be considered. however, i want to put on record that we believe that at the current time this is not a prospect, and to underline that we must focus on the continued success of the current mission as it stands.
in writing. − the relative success of operation atalanta, now renewed for a year, underlines the fact that although the european security and defence policy has the potential to achieve significant results for member states, it is still unclear why nato alone could not match this and thus avoid duplication. but piracy remains a clear and present danger in the seas around the horn of africa. we need to redouble efforts to defeat this menace; not only to protect our shipping, but to send a clear message of our resolve to the agents of al-qa’ida currently enjoying safe haven in somalia. national security does not end at national borders. leaving the scourge of piracy unchecked will multiply the eu’s security concerns in the long term. i also urge the commission to reconsider how more political support for the relatively stable, prosperous and democratic breakaway former british territory of somaliland could help to tackle the threat of piracy in the region.
in writing. − we are in favour of robust international action to deal with piracy and have no doubt that the royal navy and allied navies from the us and other european nations will do a good job. however, we see no reason for the eu to run up its flag on a naval operation. we are opposed to the interference of the eu as an institution in defence matters. this brings no additional military capability and merely duplicates or adds complexity to the well-tried arrangements under nato. operation atalanta was conceived as a political opportunity to add a maritime dimension to esdp during the french presidency. despite the presence in the seas off the horn of africa of the us-led combined task force 151 and a nato maritime group it was decided to concoct yet another fleet and a further command chain. we are also deeply concerned by proposals for an esdp training mission to somalia at a time when the eupol mission in afghanistan has been a failure and many european countries have been unwilling to provide troops and police for urgent training missions in afghanistan. incidentally we do not recognise such terminology as ‘eu fishing vessels.’
mr president, nicaragua remains one of the poorest countries in the americas. the fact that president daniel ortega has failed to improve his country’s situation, despite myriad socialist utopian promises upon taking office, would suggest that nicaragua needs a change of leadership now. the country’s constitution permits heads of state to serve only one term, sometimes a wise policy in a region prone to instability, but ortega is once again showing his contempt for parliamentary democracy and the rule of law by abusing the constitutional court’s powers. in this respect he is no different from his fellow leftist hugo chávez of venezuela. both men have made their names denouncing caudillos, but they themselves are turning into caudillos of the left and, as such, represent a genuine threat to regional democratic stability, especially given the chaos in nearby honduras. daniel ortega has failed his people and his country many times over. if we truly believe in democracy and freedom, we cannot ignore the plight of the citizens of nicaragua.
mr president, vietnam and laos sadly remain the only vestiges, along with cuba and the people’s republic of china, of one-party communist dictatorships, where parliamentary democracy, pluralism of debate – including freedom of the media and internet blogging – and peaceful practice of religion are alien concepts. in vietnam, outspoken buddhist monks and catholics are not tolerated by the hanoi government, and in laos the hmong people are persecuted, and many have fled to thailand. i agree that – with all the good will in the world, and in spite of endless international and un commitments, including those made recently to the eu in trade agreements – communist dictatorships can never be liberal democracies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i have been a long-standing critic in this house of the lack of human rights in the people’s republic of china. i have criticised the bullying of peaceful taiwan in excluding this country from all international organisations, including the world health organisation. i have criticised the repression of peaceful tibetan culture, the persecution of falun gong, as well as other religious minorities and the presence of widespread censorship in china, including the media and also the internet and google. i condemn as well the brutal and widespread use of the death sentence for lesser crimes – such as economic subversion and pimping, believe it or not. nevertheless, my group, the ecr, regards it as a personal conscience matter whether the death sentence is justifiable in the most serious crimes of terrorism and murder. there can be no doubt that, in the recent riots in xinjiang province, many innocent han chinese were brutally murdered. nevertheless, of course, we do now welcome the prc’s expressed desire for having much better and harmonious relations with its ethnic minorities and, in particular, the uighurs and other muslim minorities. of course i, like all members of my group, call for fair trials for all those detained.
mr president, i want to deplore the deeply worrying decision of the turkish constitutional court on friday to close the democracy society party, which represents largely kurdish interests, and to ban from politics its leading mps. this is a very retrograde step and will be used as a pretext to return to violence by extremists. it closes off the democratic political option which the prime minister, mr erdogan, has said he wants to pursue. one of the problems is that the ak party government has failed to reform the very law which was used to close the democracy society party – in fact, the law under which the ak party itself almost got closed. so this is not in the interests of the government of turkey or its people. the alde group will be calling for a plenary debate on this subject as early as possible in the new year because it is a really bad step backwards for turkey.
mr president, we all know the importance of recycling, and it is a given fact we would expect our paper to be recycled, once used. i recently visited a printing company in my constituency of london, where i found out more about ink-jet printing. the complicated process used to recycle ink-jet paper makes it an expensive operation, and the use of additional bleach means it is not environmentally friendly. the ink cannot be separated easily from the paper, which means that much of today’s printed matter cannot be recycled. companies such as the one i visited in london that use other forms of printing which are environmentally friendly need to be encouraged and incentives offered to make the process economically more even-handed. i would like to see a market-driven solution supported by member states, a solution where the industry self-regulates with a code of practice, taking the lead in environmental agendas. nevertheless, the eu has an important role to play in promoting awareness of these issues and supporting alternatives to ink-jet printing when and where appropriate.
mr president, i appreciate what you say, but the fact that you have got twice the number of names of members who want to speak shows you how important this particular part of our job – representing our people – actually is. could i perhaps ask you to take this back and look at some other way whereby we would not sit here for one hour and then not be called because – and i am not complaining, i know it is a difficult task you have – at least then we could be told not to turn up this week, or whatever. you would decide beforehand how many you were going to take, and the rest of us could then come back the next time or raise our points in another way. i think, rather than waste the time of members, it might be good.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we all understand the concerns of many of the other sectors within agriculture, and they almost certainly thought that we were placing far too much emphasis on trying to resolve the problems facing the dairy sector. but those of us who were involved in it knew there was no alternative, that the dairy problems had to be resolved, and hopefully we are now on the way to resolving some of the problems that part of the sector faced. we must now focus on other areas. we have spoken about the problems facing the grain farmers, for instance, who have suffered the lowest prices in many a long day – and in my area, potato farmers and apple growers too. indeed, i can give you a list of other areas where there are serious problems. but one of the greatest problems – and here i want to come back to support what mrs harkin said – is the delay in approving new strands of gmo grains for imports into the european union. we are driving up the cost of feed, which is hitting our pig farmers, our poultry farmers and our beef farmers, and speeding up those approvals would go a long way to helping the situation. we are in major danger of over-bureaucracy, red tape and legislation strangling our farmers; you will see that on 1 january when you implement the cpid, which in my opinion is a total waste of time. the mid-term review brought us many changes, and we are about to embark on even more. but i think we need to re-examine the effect these changes have made in the industry. i know from experience in my area that many sheep farmers and suckler cow farmers are simply leaving the industry. this is a very worrying trend. we need to look at both these sectors, at how we are actually supporting them. can we do more for them? can we keep them there? because we should remember that many of these sectors, such as sheep and suckler cows, are in environmentally sensitive areas, they are in mountainous regions and areas where there is no alternative, and i think we need to have another look at how we are supporting those parts of the industry.
madam president, if you want to know how tough it is for farmers, just take a look at the uk government’s modified low-income threshold. this is the level below which a family is deemed to be living in poverty. the latest figures in the uk show that one quarter of all british farmers fall into this category. but helping farmers is not just about agricultural policy. we should be working here in a holistic way. consumers want to buy high-quality food that is produced as close to home as possible. the european parliament must listen to consumers’ demands for clear country-of-origin food labelling so that they can be sure where their food comes from. we already have country-of-origin labelling on many foods, and there is no reason why mandatory country-of-origin labelling should not be extended to the remaining sectors, including the main ingredients of processed food. we have that opportunity coming up in this parliament early next year. let us make sure we take it.
madam president, it looks as though i have temporarily joined mrs harkin’s fan club by drawing your attention to the underlying crisis in the livestock feed market with reference to minute traces of gm material that might be found in a 60 000-tonne cargo of soya beans. if these traces are not from an eu-authorised variety, the cargo is now allowed to unload. the cost to the shipper in such an instance amounts to gbp 2.3 million, but there is also severe disruption down the line with lorries returning empty to feed mills who then have the problem of sourcing alternative protein at very short notice. after immense pressure on this subject, the eu commission has approved four more varieties of gm maize that they regard as a safe contaminant. it can take several years for such approval to take place whilst, meanwhile, new gm maize varieties are being adopted by farms in america all the time. this problem will resurface again within a year or so. at present there are also several gm flax and cotton products which can easily be inadvertently mixed in trace amounts amongst a large cargo of soya, and they will also cause a shipment to be refused. it is perverse that, whilst there are small tolerances allowed for stones, soil, dead insects, metal filings and wood chips, there is no tolerance whatsoever for a single wholesome grain of maize. the uncertainty that this zero-tolerance policy creates has resulted in steeply increased insurance premiums for shippers that get passed on to the livestock producer – to say nothing of the angst generated when a producer is informed that his feed order cannot be fulfilled. this is a most unsatisfactory situation and creates an unnecessary crisis in the production of meat and eggs. i urge the commission to approach this whole issue in a more practical and sensible fashion by bringing in a tolerance level for gm admixture similar to that for other contaminants.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for coming to listen to us once again, and i want to highlight just a number of issues which have been very prevalent in northern ireland within the agricultural industry over the last number of months. you may have read, commissioner, that in county fermanagh we have suffered extreme flooding over the last number of weeks. this has led to very severe difficulties for farmers, not least gaining access to stock in the fields, with many roads closed and impassable because of rain. it also will affect their ability to spread slurry, and just the general losses that they have. i would encourage the commission to look into this issue and indicate whether there can be direct help for farmers in this sector. i would also encourage the commission to look at the potato industry in northern ireland. a number of potato farmers have written to me recently because they have been very badly affected by the very high levels of rainfall in recent weeks as well. they are expressing extreme concern about their ability to get potatoes out of the ground and, with frost fast approaching with the onset of the winter months, they fear that they will lose their crops. so, again, this is an industry – and part of the agricultural industry in northern ireland – which is going thorough a very difficult time. just recently i also met with a number of egg producers, farmers who are currently in the process of changing to the enhanced cages. they would like from the commission a guarantee that they will not be required to change those cages again for a considerable period of time, and again i would encourage the commission to look into this.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the european union has set up budgetary instruments to provide support to workers who are being made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, many of which have been influenced directly or indirectly by the european union. however, this represents a piecemeal approach. subsidising the training of those who have lost their jobs in certain industries will not resolve the situation of the said industries, nor will it help to create an alternative industry that will absorb this workforce. this is just a waste of taxpayers’ money. if the european union was really looking to help europe out of the crisis, it should be investigating and working on the causes of the crisis, but it prefers to be seen as the charity that will come to rescue the poor. of course, this action will initially return support for the european union from those affected. moreover, the report and the motion for a resolution being proposed for vote do not indicate what the scope of this subsidy will be – i.e. how many industries it will cover and how many companies within a certain industry. what is most worrying is that the report emphasises the need to speed up the payments of the subsidies, without ever mentioning the need to provide evidence that the funds are reaching the right people for the right purpose. worse still, the report does not call for regular monitoring of the effects of the subsidy, leaving this evaluation to the general assessment of the programmes within the process of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework. colleagues, we are talking about taxpayers’ money, many of whom have also lost their jobs and are getting no subsidies, many of whom are going through severe financial problems. how can we treat their money with such contempt? i will reject this resolution, and urge you to do the same.
mr de rossa, has it occurred to you that unemployment in ireland has a tremendous amount to do with ireland’s continuing membership of the euro, which means that ireland cannot devalue, cannot reduce interest rates and cannot do any quantitative easing? has it ever occurred to you that it might be better if ireland left the euro, rather than stretching out its begging hand to the contributing countries of the european union?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the proposal for the second reading of the 2010 budget still represents a 6% increase in respect of 2009. that proposal appears to come from another planet – a planet where there is no financial crisis. following the conciliation meeting in november, parliament still deplores the council’s refusal to increase the financing of programmes under the grand heading of ‘competitiveness for growth and employment’. the council must know all too well how such funds are used. parliament also criticises the council over the reduction in payments, alleging that this does not contribute to reducing the disparity between commitments and payments. the council must know all too well that this disparity is due to the lack of intelligence and of consultation that characterises the budgeting process. the court of auditors recently brought to our attention that the amount of unpaid commitments presently stands at eur 155 billion – or 126% of the current annual budget. does this say something to you? parliament welcomes the increase in administrative expenditure – an increase which also includes members’ salaries. it is obscene for us to vote for an increase in our own salaries, all of which are to be paid by taxpayers who are losing their jobs and social securities owing to the reduction in national budgets. in the current circumstances we should renounce any increases. the european parliament rejects the budgetary cuts introduced by the council in the structural and cohesion funds. colleagues, are you aware that these are the areas where the court of auditors has found the highest levels of errors? does the european parliament think we should be injecting more money into programmes where we are certain abuses are taking place? in addition, the public should know that this budget does not cover the costs of implementing the lisbon treaty, which will be added through amending budgets – i.e. through the back door. one might ask how much this will amount to. ‘who cares?’ comes the answer, ‘it is taxpayers’ money’. as i advised back in october, british citizens will see their contribution to the european union raised from gbp 45 million a day to gbp 50 million a day, while the british government will be reducing public services so as to allow a cut of gbp 12 billion in the national budget. that is almost the same amount that the united kingdom contributes to the european union. there is no question that this budget is a burden and not a way out of the crisis. colleagues, listen to your conscience and vote against this budget.
mr president, we are all aware of the remaining eur 2.4 billion for the european economic recovery plan that has been committed in the 2010 budget, and i welcome the attempt to get europe through this difficult economic climate in this regard. i feel the focus of this plan should be on innovation and employment and essentially limiting job losses. i hope that this will be money well spent and not wasted. these resources must be properly allocated and used in an effective and efficient way by member states. i am glad that the promised eur 420 million for broadband in rural areas has been secured. this will be a very important initiative in many rural areas, and if properly implemented should encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in those areas. i welcome the fact that the milk fund has been established. i think this was very much needed and it is a good example of this parliament’s achievement in the formation of the budget, with funds being used, let us put it this way, that were not being used in other areas. i want to speak a little bit on what i would like to see in the budget for the future. i want to see that the people it has helped are the victims of violence, the victims of terrorism, because i think we can do more in this area. these are people who have not been helped. they are not getting enough nor receiving enough help from their national governments. where i come from, there are many areas whereby they are being helped at the moment through existing funds, but there are other areas where we could do more. after 2014 there will be no funds available to them and i appeal to this house to begin now to look at how we can actually help the victims of the violence of terrorism. i hope the incoming spanish presidency will be able to help me in this area. can i take this opportunity to briefly express my concerns about the administration of eur 60 million of funds in northern ireland. i hope the commissioner for budgets here will take on board this particular point. the northern ireland assembly has the responsibility of administering the funds. they are about 18 months behind in distribution of these funds. i would ask them if they are going to administer these funds that they do it efficiently, that they do it effectively and that they do it wisely at a time when people need to go to work.
mr president, this is my first budget in this parliament, and i have been very impressed by the consensus on what parliament’s priorities are and by the consensus that we should protect those priorities. i wish to thank everybody involved in this process. we have achieved a lot. we have not achieved everything, but i am pleased we have achieved so much. in particular, i am pleased with the declarations on the structural funds and cohesion policy. i hope those declarations are remembered when we decide on policy post-2013. however, difficult decisions remain for parliament, such as that on funding for the microfinance facility – i hope members will still regard that as a priority – on ensuring that we find the funding for kozloduy in the next three years, and on finding funding for new priorities: priorities coming out of copenhagen, priorities coming out of the implementation of the lisbon treaty and priorities coming out of the new 2020 strategy we will be discussing next year. we have to solve all these problems in the knowledge that margins are tight and that the council will be reluctant to provide extra funding. that is why a fundamental review of the budget in the future is absolutely essential. we should make sure that the budget in the future meets our priorities. we also need to look at a new budget line for the globalisation fund, rather than to keep taking money from other lines. we also need to make sure there is enough money under the flexibility instrument so that we can respond and change our priorities. at the moment, that amount is not enough. if we can do all these things then we will meet our priorities and, more importantly, we can show the citizens of europe that this parliament is relevant. our budget should follow our priorities, but it should also follow the priorities of our citizens. that is the key message for us as a parliament, but also a key message for the commission and for the council.
mr president, i want to make it clear that while i feel that helping small business is a very good idea and one that should be pursued, it should be pursued at national government level. i have huge concerns over this proposal, about the accountability of the money that will be lent and the payback in relation it. i would encourage national governments to do all they can to help small business, which is the backbone of our economy. the eu can help by decreasing regulation and making funds available at a national level.
mr president, we were in favour of this proposal. i think it is very important that we help entrepreneurs right across the eu and in member states to create wealth and jobs and take people out of poverty. i am also grateful that we were looking at taking the money from the existing budget, rather than new spending, and using that to leverage even more spending from the private sector. however, i must point out that we have to be very careful here when using state financing and taxpayers’ money. in my own constituency, i am aware of some microfinance facilities, such as the excellent croydon caribbean credit union, which helps underprivileged communities come out of poverty. these facilities have been squeezed out by local government and other state microfinanced facilities. it is important, in pursuing increased accessibility to microfinance, that we do not squeeze out the many excellent private providers that are already there.
in writing. − i am in favour of the state providing microfinance to individuals to help them to establish small businesses. however, i am opposed to the european union carrying out this function. nevertheless, i did vote in favour of some amendments because it was always likely that the resolution would be carried and i wished to improve the resolution as much as possible. the 'blocking' of the votes on several amendments prevented me from voting separately on some amendments.
in writing. − this is a great initiative that will make it easier for people who have lost, or risk losing, their jobs to get credit to start up their own businesses. the european progress microfinance facility will make available up to eur 25,000 to people who want loans to start or grow very small firms, and who have been unable to obtain credit through conventional markets. i am pleased that the european parliament was able to ensure this money did not come from the “progress” programme, which is designed to help vulnerable people, but was created using money from the 2010 budget for the first year. the eur 100 million fund, available from early 2010, is exactly the kind of help that small businesses need at this time of financial crisis when banks are still unwilling to release credit. this will help businesses across wales, and i am disappointed that colleagues from ukip were unable to support this progressive initiative.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr barroso, we have recently heard that there is to be a closure of the corus steel works on teesside in northern england. this is due to an eu target reduction of 20% of carbon emissions. thanks to the carbon credit, corus can no longer afford to employ over 5 000 steel workers, including suppliers. we also have the spectacle of the british government admitting that its hands are tied on this issue because of punitive eu competition law. the real gain to corus from stopping production on teesside is the saving it will make in its carbon allowances allocated by the eu under its emissions trading system scheme, which will be worth up to gbp 600 million over the next three years. but surprise, surprise – guess what: the head of the ipcc, rajendra pachauri, is also the head of the tata foundation, so, one must ask, cui bono? because tata owns corus. (protests from the floor) the question i would like to ask is: is it now official eu policy to offer incentives to companies to close plants such as teesside so that they can outsource their business to countries such as india, or is there a more personal interest at stake here?
you did not answer my question, because the question was: is it official eu policy to offer incentives to companies to close plants such as teesside and outsource the business to countries such as india? you did not answer the question. would you please answer it?
president barroso, i welcome your vision for 2020. you show that even in the dark days of recession one can dream of utopia. i welcome your comments on european research areas. i represent cambridge, which is home to the leading research cluster that has already seen great successes in high-tech, green-tech and bio-tech. if we are to turn your dreams into anything like reality then we could do with listening to, and learning from, the cambridge experience. research needs funding; innovative businesses need funding; world class-innovation needs world-class funding. last week i met representatives of the wellcome trust, which is the uk’s largest charity and last year gave eur 750 million to medical research. they came to brussels to tell this parliament that, if we pass the legislation, as drafted, on alternative investments, then we would cut their organisation’s funding by two thirds. please do not say one thing and do another.
president barroso, the european anti-poverty network has described your consultation document on the 2020 strategy as a step backwards from commitments by successive european councils to strengthen the social dimension. your document only mentions flexicurity and training. you should know that on this side of the house we cannot accept a strategy that is devoid of social content. 2010 will be the european year against poverty and social exclusion. should you not make the fight against the scourge of poverty and exclusion the centrepiece of the 2020 strategy? finally, recognising that a third of all jobs created since the year 2000 in the european union are in the health, social and employment services, making a double contribution to reducing poverty, providing services and creating employment, should the 2020 strategy not set targets for the provision of high-quality social services?
mr president, in fact i put three points, and three ‘yeses’ would do! (laughter)
mr president, i warmly welcome the chance to put a question to president barroso because the conference of committee chairs has, for the first time, been moved backward by an hour so we committee chairmen are able to be here for the first time. i want to ask him about a policy to help framework conditions for research and innovation – which i was rather disappointed to see did not make it into this first draft of 2020, but i hope will be there in future – and that is to harness the huge potential of public procurement, throughout the european union, to stimulate innovative products and services. i want to ask him today if he would take up the recommendations endorsed almost unanimously by this parliament in my report last november, which showed how this could be done. just to give him an idea and to share it with colleagues, if 1% of european public procurement was secured for innovative products and services, it would raise the investment in innovation across the european union by no less than eur 15 billion.
mr president, by next year britain’s net contribution will have doubled from what it was in 2008. in 2020 there will be four to seven new member states at least. on their current economic performance, each one of the new member states will be receiving cohesion funds – which are subsidies by another name – from the date they become members right the way through until 2020. can, therefore, the british taxpayer anticipate a further doubling in britain’s net contribution to the european union by 2020, and, if not, why not?
mr president, the point i would like to make is that there are many people here today who have not had a chance to ask mr barroso questions. given the huge salary that mr barroso is on, can he not spend another 30 minutes with us on a regular basis, to make this an hour and a half? the first 30 minutes were with the other group leaders. there are 750 members in this place. i think 30 minutes is ridiculous. can we not have an hour and a half? mr barroso, you are on a good enough salary, sir. come here for 90 minutes, not 60.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the statements from both the council and the commission, but my question to them both is when are we are going to go beyond the fine words – which i very much agree with – when are we going to have real action? we have heard the same words over and again that we need to ensure that israel does this or does that, but we need the real leverage to make that happen otherwise israel will simply ignore us, as it continues to do. my question is what practically can you do to make sure that we see real movement and progress here? to my mind that has to involve issues like the suspension of the eu-israel association agreement. focusing on the situation in east jerusalem, i welcome very much the swedish presidency’s initiative and its clarity over the role of jerusalem as a capital of two states and your firmness about the importance of israel freezing its settlement activity in east jerusalem. i also pay tribute to the authors of the eu heads of mission report on east jerusalem itself. that report speaks with a clarity and vision which is all too often absent in these debates. it sets out how israel’s policy of illegal annexation of east jerusalem is deliberately designed to weaken the palestinian community in the city and prevent palestinian development. but the heads of mission called on the council to adopt a whole range of recommendations as a result of that report, and i believe that we need to see urgent action from the council to do exactly that. if the eu is serious about its commitment to a two-state solution, it needs to be doing everything possible to preserve and strengthen the palestinian character and identity of east jerusalem. the heads of mission statement and report show practical ways of doing so.
mr president, as a member of the parliamentary delegation to israel, i listened with interest to the foreign affairs council’s comments on the middle east peace process and the commission’s statement. however, i, like my previous colleague, are left with an overriding sense of concern in relation to these. israel is the only functioning democracy in the region. the favourite tactics of its opponents have been terrorism against the state. i believe that the council and the commission statements fail to give proper weight to israel’s security concerns. in fact, i did not hear the high representative mention those concerns in her statement to this house. furthermore, i believe that the statement places too strong a burden upon israel, both in terms of the failure of the process to progress and on the resolution of the outstanding issues – in particular, jerusalem.
mr president, the eu heads of mission report on east jerusalem makes pretty devastating reading. let us not beat about the bush. this report makes clear that what is going on in east jerusalem amounts to a form of ethnic cleansing. palestinian homes are being stolen, people are being forced out and hopes of peace are being destroyed. so the question is: what are we going to do about it? the council’s conclusions are very welcome. we know they are strong, because the israeli government immediately dismissed them. nothing new, they said. they are used to dismissing our words because we never back them up with deeds. they treat us with contempt. why shouldn’t they – we are so gullible we actually pay the bills for the occupying power! we keep the palestinians going when it should be israel footing the bill, not our taxpayers. if our words are to have meaning, then we should suspend or threaten to suspend the association agreement, but not one of our foreign ministers has ever even raised that possibility, we are told. so the question remains: where is the policy? well, we have the policy. it is in the conclusions. now what about the action? israel will not move unless it is pushed.
mr president, may i welcome the presence of the new high representative in the chamber and also the strong council conclusions on the middle east steered by the swedish presidency. on the goldstone report, i would like to congratulate mr bildt, on behalf of the presidency, for praising the – and i quote – ‘credibility and high integrity’ of the goldstone report. i do think it would be useful if mrs malmström could repeat today in the european parliament what her ambassador said in the united nations – that the eu urges israel and the palestinians to launch appropriate, credible and independent domestic investigations of human rights violations in relation to the gaza conflict. finally, can i ask the presidency and the high representative if they are aware of the british government guidance adopted last week for food labelling to distinguish between imports originating from the palestinian territories and those from illegal israeli settlements, and tell us what plans they have for extending this advice to the european level. as electors, we can choose to pay the costs of peace. as consumers, we do not want to subsidise the price of conflict.
mr president, the council conclusion is indeed a welcome vigorous statement of the eu position and its intention to play a much stronger role in a reinvigorated quartet engagement. do the council and commission therefore agree that the approach urged on it by some, which is to boycott israel, is completely the wrong route to that engagement? you cannot boycott and engage at the same time. indeed, the right approach is the one also stressed by the council conclusions, which is to reaffirm the further development of bilateral relations with israel. however tempting it is, the council can only be an influential player politically, as well as with economic support, if it resists the temptations – motivated sometimes by frustration at one or other of the parties – to have some sort of sanctions or punish one or the other. it is too complex a situation and it simply undermines a consistent, coherent eu pressure on both parties to get back to the table and have a peace agreement.
mr president, as a member of the delegation that went to palestine last week, it became clear to me that there are a number of sensible people who believe that the two-state option is dead in the water, largely because of israeli actions, not least the proposals to extend the wall even further into and beyond east jerusalem, thereby dividing the west bank into the north and the south. what interests and what actions are we likely to take if the single-state option becomes a reality? secondly, are the presidency and lady ashton aware of how much the views of, again, sensible people about the charade that passes off as the quartet is prevalent amongst a number of people? what actions are we going to take to ensure that the cost of this operation is matched by its effectiveness, which presently is nil?
mr president, i agree with the israeli foreign minister, mr lieberman, that the final council statement is a lot better perhaps than the earlier swedish draft which i saw a couple of weeks ago, but it makes no mention of the accepted quartet principles which hamas repudiates as it carries on terrorising palestinian authority officials and civilians alike in gaza. also, why did foreign minister bildt not visit the region to show solidarity with democratic israel and moderate palestinians? also, why was the annexation of east jerusalem singled out for mention at this critical time? the eu needs to be more balanced and formally recognise our common democratic values with the state of israel and actually enhance israel’s participation in eu programmes – unusually, i agree with baroness ludford on this – under the association agreement, in order to build confidence by israel in the eu’s goodwill towards the jewish state.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, like charity, rights begin at home. i ask about the rights of europeans sikhs. because they wear the kirpan, a small ceremonial dagger, beneath their clothing they have been prevented from entering the european parliament. the kirpan is an act of faith which they may not remove, so their exclusion is a matter of religious and racial intolerance. in successive years i have written to each of the two previous presidents and the commission who all replied that the exclusion is on security grounds. in celebrating her diamond jubilee, queen elizabeth came to my region, the east midlands, where in their place of worship in leicester, she talked to sikhs. all wearing the kirpan, standing as close to them as you are to your colleagues. i am minded to speak on this today because a month ago i was at the palace of westminster. there, in our democratic parliament, very close to both the house of lords and to the house of commons, i met several sikhs, all wearing the kirpan. with them was a leading sikh i have come to know. his forebears stood shoulder to shoulder with my forebears, fighting for democracy in those conflicts which have so disfigured this europe of ours. as a result, you and 700 others have the freedom to come from the four corners of europe to meet in this place. so what of the lisbon treaty which speaks of a union founded on respect for freedom, equality, the rights of minorities, values of non-discrimination? will you live up to your treaty, or is it just empty words?
mr president, in the original list, what is the justification for placing the taliban in the same category as osama bin laden and al-qa’ida? osama bin laden and al-qa’ida are terrorists who have already committed terrorist acts worldwide and intend to commit more in the future. we must pursue those people to the ends of the earth and restrict them as much as possible. whilst the taliban are an appalling, repressive and anti-democratic organisation, the world is full of unpleasant regimes and the taliban are not even in government. they are also killing and maiming our troops in afghanistan, for which they are quite rightly hated. however, they would not be killing and maiming our troops if our troops were not deployed there. the taliban, as far as i know, have no ambitions beyond their borders. is there not a danger that placing the taliban in the same category as al-qa’ida provides ammunition for the warmongers in the us and british governments to pursue a pointless, murderous and unwinnable war in afghanistan for years ahead? furthermore, wars against muslim countries only provoke terrorist outrages. returning to al-qa’ida for a moment, there is considerable doubt about its existence as an organisational entity, as distinct from an ideological one. there is no possibility of drawing up a definitive and inclusive list of its operatives. the only strategy is to be watchful of those communities from which it recruits, regrettably including innocent people as well as the guilty.
author. − mr president, can i start by saying that it is very good to see commissioner wallström in the room, as well as cecilia malmström, from the presidency-in-office, because we were both engaged in this dossier from the outset, in 1999. it is interesting to reflect that what we achieved in our agreement in may 2001 was somehow historic, amongst 15 member states moving from different traditions and cultures, and different approaches, to openness and transparency. we managed to reach an agreement and, interestingly, in no small way that was due to the determination of the swedish presidency at the time. it was also due to the determination of the commission to recognise that all three institutions needed a cultural change. we needed to see that openness and transparency did not prevent democracy from flourishing, but actually improved it. it allowed accountability. it allowed citizens to see what was being done in their name and, arguably, it helped us to lift the curtain and to prove once and for all that there were no terrible secrets hidden in the safes of the commission or the council – i am not so sure about parliament, but hopefully not in parliament’s safes either! i want to thank in particular the commissioner and, if i may, my dear former colleague, cecilia malmström, for that commitment. now we need another commitment. as i said, we have achieved a huge amount. we have a register of documents. we have the jurisprudence of the ecj, now defining and redefining what was originally agreed on access to documents. we have accepted the principle that all documents should remain accessible and that, where not accessible, access should be reasoned against quite clearly and specifically in reference to either article 4 – the exemptions – or article 9 – sensitive documents. however, as we have moved on, parliament has called repeatedly for a revision. i believe that the revision the commission placed before parliament, on which we subsequently voted in committee and the first reading of which was deferred in march of this year, did not go far enough, and i know we have a difference of opinion on this. equally there were concerns – and those concerns still remain in this house – that there was an attempt to claw back on access to documents, not least in the redefining of documents – the notion that whole files could be exempted – and attempting to redefine the notion of the third-party veto. it is interesting that our citizens sitting in the gallery must be thinking that we are talking about something that happens in outer space – articles, third-party vetoes – but actually what we are talking about is a law that allows them to make sure that we are accountable: parliamentarians accountable for what we do in their name, the commission for what it does in their name, and, equally, the council. how can they do that and the ngos do that if the way we work and who does what within all of the different units remains a well-kept secret, open only to those lobbyists and those lawyers who know? that is what i believe is at the heart of the treaty of lisbon. it says that we need to further enhance democracy. we need to enhance access to documents. that is why parliament, in this oral question, is calling for a whole range of recommendations to be undertaken. basically it is about ensuring that the rights that we have are built upon, that they are not diminished, and about recognising that under lisbon it is no longer just the three institutions but all of the agencies and the bodies set up by them, including the european central bank, in some instances the european court of justice, the european investment bank, europol and eurojust. all of these institutions are now accountable under regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. we believe that the proposals that have been brought forward since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty do not match either the spirit or the letter of that treaty or, indeed, the obligations that we believe are contained within the original regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, which for the benefit of our listeners governs public access to all the documents held, received or produced by the three institutions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am very pleased with the question and grateful to mr cashman for setting out his views. indeed, i had thought that all the political groups in this house were agreed upon the resolution. that was what i was told was the outcome of the meeting this afternoon. it is clear that with the entry into force of lisbon we can go forward with a step change on the whole issue of transparency. as the vice-president of this house responsible for transparency, i have not always found it an easy subject, but i do believe that now we have the chance to do better and to reach out even further to our citizens. within this house, we are looking at our own arrangements for access to documents and access to information. for me, it was a real pleasure this morning to meet with cecilia malmström and margot wallström so that our three institutions for once could sit down together and really make some progress. it has already been referred to – and i think this, for us, is the big breakthrough – that, rather than this interinstitutional body that meets as and when, and two to three years apart, we have set ourselves six months to meet again and a much more regular timetable. we are serious, and this is a serious signal that we have made together, that we aim for a real transparency portal between all of us, that we aim to ensure that our citizens can see the legislative process as it progresses through all its stages, and that they can have a real input and real insight into what we do. so my group – and i believe all the groups – have agreed to amendments that will reflect today’s progress. it only remains for me to say, thank you, for us as three ladies, that we managed some progress on this issue.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the european union has, in my country and elsewhere too, a richly deserved reputation for taking its decisions furtively, secretly and surreptitiously. one would suppose, therefore, that the commission will do its best now to be open and transparent. instead, the commission has produced this proposal – i think it is 1049 – part of which actually restricts access to documents that are currently public. beyond this, there is an important objective point which i remember from my time at harvard university, and it is this: decisions that are made without transparency and no proper public scrutiny have a built-in tendency to be bad decisions. you should accept that one of the reasons that the commission puts forward so many ill-considered, ill-thought-out, inappropriate and ill-drafted proposals, which we in england and other countries have to put up with, is the lack of transparency. so in the matter of this legal framework i would urge the commission to think again, if thinking again is ever actually a possibility for a flawed institution in a flawed system of governing.
author. − mr president, i felt it necessary to rise on two points. mrs sommer is still in the chamber and i thought it appropriate, even though she is not listening, to respond to what she said. she made a series of accusations. one that i had not been transparent. can i correct the record and say that all political groups and all rapporteurs have been invited to all meetings. when they have not been able to be there, their positions have been faithfully represented to those meetings. all decisions subsequently taken have been communicated to all shadow rapporteurs and all political groups. there has been a suggestion that somehow we should withdraw this motion for resolution that mrs sommer says is undemocratic and non-transparent – that her group knew nothing about this. well, i find this interesting, when i have been negotiating this afternoon with her group, the epp, on their draft motion for a resolution on the oral question. so i can only think that she is misinformed and, on that generous basis, i look forward to negotiating sincerely and in good faith with the epp and with all other groups. finally, it was remiss of me. it is the last time, commissioner wallström and i will face one another here in the chamber and i just wanted to put on record, if i may, that i and parliament have never doubted your commitment to openness and transparency. you have been absolutely right: we have always had to fight our own corner for our own institutions and you have fought yours brilliantly but never deflecting from the principle of openness and transparency. you have been and will remain, i am sure, a remarkable public servant with an exemplary record. you have never flinched from doing that which you believed to be right and just and decent and, on behalf of people who will never have the privilege to meet you, may i say thank you.
madam president, i am grateful for your support for the victims of terrorism. this is both right and proper and of course i do recognise the european union’s support for victims in northern ireland through the peace programmes that have been funded there. the commission should be aware that northern ireland is facing once again a growing terrorist threat from dissident republican organisations. that threat has been described by the police service of northern ireland as ‘critical’ and by the international monitoring commission as ‘very serious’. in the most recent brutal attacks, two soldiers just about to go to afghanistan were murdered, as well as one police officer. in its initial funding to victims of terrorism, the commission identified the key objective to mobilise the public against terrorism in all its forms. however, i feel with the transition to the broader cips programme, this objective seems to have been lost. i am grateful for your proposed work on a victims’ charter and i would urge that this starts off by making a very clear distinction between the victims of terrorism and the perpetrators of terrorism.
madam president, in recent years we have witnessed an ongoing campaign to suppress freedom of religious expression. christian nurses have been disciplined for offering to pray with patients and, only today, lillian ladele, a christian registrar who was told to perform civil partnerships or face dismissal, has lost her case for religious discrimination at the court of appeal in the united kingdom. equality laws have failed to protect christians – indeed, quite the opposite. an amendment to the equality bill to protect the religious liberty of churches was voted down in the house of commons two weeks ago, amid accusations of interference from the eu commission. the commission, in their reasoned opinion, argued that the uk needs to narrow the religious liberty safeguard in its employment laws. i say: shame on the commission. there must be a recognition that people have faith and have the right to express that faith. christians ought to be protected, and not punished, by the law.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the swedish government for its presidency of this council. it took office with a very heavy agenda and has been able to achieve a great deal, much of which we welcome. i have spoken in this chamber repeatedly of the need to reinvigorate the lisbon strategy; the european union has for far too long pursued political and institutional reform with a degree of energy and determination which it has simply been unable to muster for economic reform. yet our global trading position, relative economic weight and international competitiveness are in jeopardy. i therefore welcome the commission’s eu 2020 initiative, now endorsed by the european council, and i congratulate particularly mr barroso for his part in this. the future prosperity and well-being of our citizens depend on a dynamic economy able to generate jobs and wealth by unleashing the creative energies of entrepreneurs and by stimulating the growth of successful businesses. part of this economic regeneration will be the greening of our economies, and we all hope that an agreement in copenhagen this week will draw up a realistic framework to tackle climate change whilst facilitating economic growth and development. on the adoption of the stockholm programme, we support the principle that the member states of the union must cooperate more to combat problems related to immigration, cross-border crime and terrorism. but these are also areas which lie at the heart of national sovereignty; and defending the laws and ensuring security and protecting the public are amongst the most important duties of a democratic state. we must therefore balance the need for joint action with respect for the rights of our member states. parts of the stockholm programme simply fail to get the balance right. some of the proposals will simply centralise power, create unnecessary expense and add further bureaucracy for very little added value. our priorities must lie in the direction of fitness to compete, deregulation, innovation and job creation. the people of europe deserve nothing less.
mr president, i represent the european free alliance part of my group which includes the independence parties of wales, flanders, catalonia and scotland. we seek independent status so that our nations can contribute to european council meetings and to world events such as the copenhagen conference on climate change. the government and the parliament of scotland have adopted the world’s most ambitious climate change act, with emission-reduction targets of 42% by 2020 and 80% by 2050. these are targets which we mean to achieve, and yet the uk government refused a reasonable request for a scottish minister to be part of the official proceedings in copenhagen. such behaviour only underlines the fact that it is only with independence – the normal status of independence – that scotland can properly contribute to the international community, and i hope that the european council will very soon be discussing internal enlargement of the european union, with scotland leading the way.
mr president, this morning i want to express my extreme disappointment, on behalf of the northern ireland fishing industry, that yet another cut has been imposed upon the industry. last night’s announcement from the council that there will be a 9% cut in nephrops in area 7a is a bitter blow to the fishing industry in northern ireland. it is a fragile industry because of the cod recovery programme and because of the cuts in the days at sea. it is an industry that has had to rely on nephrops. this 9% cut will be devastating, and it is particularly galling since the science this year should have allowed the commission to have a roll-over. i think that the priority for the spanish in the next term must be the reform of the common fisheries policy and for decisions like this to be taken at regional level by local, accountable people, and not brussels bureaucrats.
mr president, the reason that i think many of us are interested in trade is really the idea of how we help those in the very poorest countries to get out of poverty. we know that one of the best ways to help them out of poverty is to help the entrepreneurs in poorer countries. entrepreneurs in many poorer countries are crying out for help and open markets and it is important that we support them. but we also have to look within our own borders to see how we are setting up barriers to facilitating trade with poorer countries. in many cases, poorer countries see the trade rules as skewed against them and they look at things like the common agricultural policy, cotton subsidies, sanitary and phytosanitary standards, and the tariffs on higher value imports to the eu. it is important that we show that the trading system is truly open and that we help the poorest countries as much as possible to eradicate poverty.
mr president, if we are to alleviate poverty in the world we have to increase global trade. if we go down the path of protectionism because of the world’s current financial crisis, the only thing we will do is delay bringing millions of people out of poverty, and millions of people will die. if we do not grasp this challenge right now and look forward beyond this crisis we will leave behind a legacy of such awful proportions that a billion people will find themselves unable to live. we have a food crisis, we have climate change, we have global warming, we have floods, earthquakes and all sorts of catastrophes which call for our help, and the only way we can uplift everyone is to actually increase global trade, and i am very grateful that the new trade commissioner-designate is listening to me.
in writing. − we are not laissez-faire capitalists and we do believe in state help for workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. we would want that help to be provided by sovereign states to their own workers. we are not, of course, even in favour of eu membership. however, the european globalisation adjustment fund exists and has had money allocated to it. this fund is an unwelcome substitute for help by member states. if it were to be proposed that british workers should be helped from this fund, i would obviously support it. therefore, i must reluctantly support swedish, dutch and austrian workers being supported from it. if there should be a no vote, the money would not be handed back to the taxpayer. it would be retained by the eu and then perhaps spent on a much less deserving cause.: see minutes
in writing. − the ecr group are the strongest supporters of measures against terrorists in the eu and especially believe that national governments within the european union must work together to tackle the constant threat from terrorism. the ecr group have nevertheless decided to abstain on this resolution for two specific reasons: first, we oppose any legislation moving us towards a common european foreign and security policy but secondly, we instead want to see improved and strengthened coordination and cooperation between the eu and national governments, and are very disappointed that this resolution did not sufficiently reflect that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i think there are certain things to be welcomed in the action plan but, as colleagues have correctly pointed out, there are a number of questions there that have not been answered. i think that, when we are looking at this, we are always looking at it from the point of view of the problem that we have and sometimes tend to underestimate the daily reality for people in both afghanistan and pakistan of the many deaths, the targeted killings of the hazara population, for example, in parts of pakistan, the attacks on girls’ schools, on the police and so many others. the afghan police were described to us recently as basically cannon fodder for the taliban. i think many of us are still wondering, really, what it was that we ever thought we would achieve by going in. in terms of the international response, i welcome hearing the commissioner talking about kick-starting cooperation and particularly mentioning india. the regional approach is important, and i look forward to hearing how we are going to deal with other areas of real tension, such as kashmir, which the afghan ambassador told us the other day really provides a problem for everything that people try to do in the region. we also need, in pakistan particularly, to be looking at what effective support we are offering in terms of the many thousands of displaced people, and learn from our lack of engagement with those who were displaced to the borders of pakistan and afghanistan in the past that a vacuum will be filled. therefore we really need to be paying attention to education and meeting the needs of the population who are also looking after those displaced people.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we cannot afford to let the nato-isaf military mission in afghanistan fail. with sufficient political will, the right military equipment and more troop numbers on the ground from all the member states, nato can defeat the taliban, and of course this must be coupled to a hearts-and-minds campaign as well. but next-door pakistan is potentially a catastrophe in the making – a nuclear arms state plagued by islamist radicalisation, corruption and feeble leadership, which, nevertheless, we have to help for strategic reasons. but, for instance, elements of the pakistani isa have long been suspected of granting tacit support to the afghan taliban and are only now reluctantly realising the domestic dangers of such an approach. the threat posed by pakistan, particularly by harbouring terrorists, to india over kashmir, also poses a grave threat to the whole region. if pakistan is to continue to receive military aid from eu countries for counter-insurgency operations against terrorist jihadis, and also eu economic assistance, it must give cast-iron guarantees that such aid will not be diverted to strengthening its conventional forces on the indian border. finally, the instability of pakistan and afghanistan contrasts greatly with the stability and moderation of our democratic ally and partner, india, which deserves the eu’s full backing.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i had the pleasure a few weeks ago of meeting some of the uk returning forces from afghanistan and i heard the same story over and over again that they were ill-equipped. yet the uk pays gbp 45 million a day into this corrupt institution. some of that money could be better spent in arming our forces in afghanistan, forces that actually train the afghan police force, etc. it is quite right, as some of you have said; this is an important area in the world and an important area that we may need to make progress in. my problem is with the lack of experience of our high representative for foreign affairs, cathy pass-the-bucket ashton, with more than a few roubles in it, no doubt. we need someone more experienced. she has not had any foreign office experience; she has not been a foreign secretary and i do not think she even had a part-time job in a travel agents’. come on! this is a delicate job; a job that needs to change things for the better and she is simply not experienced enough.
madam president, at first sight the council’s conclusions about afghanistan appear to be a welcome contrast to the belligerent attitude of the united states and the united kingdom. when looked at more closely, it is actually a mixture of naivety and complicity in their methods. the council is thoroughly naive in trying to plant the delicate flower of western democracy in the inhospitable soil of afghan tribalism. the vertical divisions in society and the domination of tribal loyalties over personal judgement would make that impossible. it wants to remove corruption but simply does not understand that the bureaucratic model of objective judgement and financial and resource decisions would not stand a chance of being respected. this is not because afghans are endemically dishonest but because afghan tribal society sees looking after one’s own family and tribe as a self-evident virtue. the council would like to counter the production of opium poppies. however, removing the taliban from government was not the best way of reducing that production. the taliban government reduced it by 90% but, since the invasion of afghanistan, afghanistan is again the world’s leading opium producer. the report says ‘insecurity in afghanistan cannot be addressed by military means alone’. that can only mean that military action has a legitimate part to play. in my view it does not. we have had three failed wars against afghanistan in the 19th and early 20th centuries; we really ought to have learnt our lesson. the taliban oppresses women, has contempt for democracy and is killing british soldiers: it is a thoroughly unpleasant organisation. but we could stop it from killing british and allied soldiers tomorrow, by removing our troops. it is a murderous, pointless war that simply cannot be won.
madam president, let me start today by remembering lance corporal adam drane, 23, of the royal anglian regiment, from bury st edmunds in my constituency, who died in helmand province on 7 december, the 100th member of the british armed forces to be killed this year. our thoughts should be with adam’s family and all those families, european, afghan and pakistani, who have suffered such loss. in the face of such sacrifice, we in this house have our own duty to ensure that we do all we can to promote peace and prosperity for afghanistan. if we are to take seriously the new lisbon changes and a proper common eu foreign policy, there is no more urgent place to prove ourselves than in the sands of afghanistan, first to ensure proper alignment of individual member states’ activities behind this new strategy and, second, to welcome high representative ashton’s commitment today to have a formidable new double-hatted representative in place in afghanistan very early in the new year. this is both a litmus test of more efficient eu working under the treaty and a marker of our future resolve for afghanistan. finally, allied to this, member states must ensure that eupol recruits the 400 officers promised; this is absolutely necessary to ensure afghanistan’s own law-enforcement services can do their job properly.
madam president, to read the eu action plan for afghanistan and pakistan, you would imagine that the whole situation depended on what the eu does. i believe the european union could make a useful, practical contribution, but this needs to be set in the context of the wider, international effort and it should be focused on some specific activities where eu involvement might add real value. it is too serious for eu posturing. in a document of over a dozen pages i found only four brief references to the united states and, more significantly perhaps, only one to nato, and it is after all the nato isaf mission which is central to the success of all endeavours. without security and stability, it is not possible to ensure good governance or any meaningful programme of reconstruction and development. on the civil side, european countries and the eu itself have pumped eur 8 billion into afghanistan since 2001, but this huge sum seems to have made little difference; do we have any idea how much of it has gone astray? there needs to be a comprehensive international plan for afghanistan and pakistan, but i have yet to see where the eu contribution fits into this wider, international commitment.
madam president, today terrorist bombings are a daily occurrence in both afghanistan and pakistan. schools, shopping centres, town centres and even military headquarters are under attack. the pakistani military is successfully pushing back infiltrators into pakistan from afghanistan, but i have to ask myself, from where are these terrorists continuing to get their weapons? it is far too simplistic to argue that it is a pakistani internal issue in itself. it is much more complex than that. minister malmström, quite rightly, raised the issue of regional cooperation. through our new foreign affairs role, high representative, will we be speaking to pakistan’s neighbours to encourage them to do all that they can to help pakistan through this difficult time? it is also quite right that, whilst mutual mistrust exists between pakistan and india – and i am a great proponent of bringing these two countries together – there is very little progress that we will make. as long as the core issue of kashmir is not dealt with, i am afraid that we will not make a huge amount of progress.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the council and commission statements on belarus.
mr president, as a long-term belarus watcher, it is important that the eu remains engaged with belarus, which is a medium-sized european country and which is becoming increasingly self-isolated and turning itself into a kind of cuba of europe. president lukashenko, who is a quintessentially homo sovieticus type, nevertheless understands fully what power politics are all about and therefore we need to have a reasonable eu-belarus trade and political contact and relationship. i therefore do agree that the targeted sanctions need to be eventually lifted and a pca eventually ratified. so, after years of the eu isolating belarus, i now agree that a pragmatic stick-and-carrot approach is the correct one. we must facilitate contacts with belarus civil society and cheaper visa arrangements, and grant belarus observer status in the euronest assembly, as well as access to the programmes of the eastern partnership. we have made a generous start, and i now call upon minsk to meet us halfway by improving its human rights and democracy record.
the debate is closed. i have received seven motions for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday 17 december 2009). written statements (rule 149)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for his statement, which certainly reassures me. can i say, commissioner, that i agree with you absolutely: we cannot pull out; we cannot create a vacuum, because a vacuum exists there already and that is a vacuum of political will, and we need political leadership to resolve this according to international obligations as well as according to the rule of law. let me just deal with the reality of this. in the conflict since 1998, over 5 000 400 people have lost their lives and, indirectly or directly, as many as 45 000 deaths occur every month. it is reported that there are 1 460 000 internally displaced people, most of them facing violence, and let me give a voice to those who do not have a voice, those who suffer such violence. the armed actors in the democratic republic of congo (drc) have perpetrated gender-based violence through various forms, including sexual slavery, kidnapping, forced recruitment, forced prostitution and rape. the congolese victims of sexual violence include women, men and boys who have also suffered rape, sexual humiliation and genital mutilation. resolution after resolution has been passed. the time has come for us internationally to demand an end to these atrocities.
the next item is question time (b7-0236/2009) the following questions are addressed to the council.
it is clear that it did wander off the subject a little, but it was very much related.
question 3 by nikolaos chountis (h-0431/09) subject: negotiations for turkey to take part in joint frontex operations on 21 october 2009 ms malmstöm, president-in-office of the council, told the european parliament meeting in plenary sitting that negotiations were being held 'with a view to a possible agreement which would also cover exchanges of information and the possibility for the turkish authorities to take part in joint frontex operations. article 8e, paragraph 2, of regulation (ec) no 863/2007 oj l 199, 31.7.2007, p.30.establishing a mechanism for the creation of rapid border intervention teams and amending council regulation (ec) no 2007/2004 oj l 349, 25.11.2004, p.1. provides that 'any amendments to or adaptations of the operational plan shall require the agreement of both the executive director and the requesting member state.' in view of the above, will the council say what stage discussions for turkish participation in joint frontex operations have reached? what demands is turkey making as a condition for its participation? is greece, a member state which hosts the frontex mission, aware of these discussions?
question 4 by seán kelly (h-0434/09) subject: climate negotiations in copenhagen can the council give an update on the negotiations nearing conclusion in copenhagen? can it specify, in the absence of a legally binding agreement in copenhagen, when it expects a legally binding successor to kyoto to be in place?
question 5 by gay mitchell (h-0436/09) subject: climate change funding for the developing world the upcoming climate change talks in copenhagen are set to define global attitudes to climate change in the short to medium term. it is crucial that agreement is reached and that rich countries front up the money to pay for the effects of climate change in the developing world. we cannot reasonably expect developing countries to pay for the effects of a problem that the western world has caused. the agreement reached in october at the european council summit estimated that developing countries would need eur 100 billion in order to adapt to climate change, whereas developing countries argue that the cost would be three to four times as much. how does the council intend to reach a compromise between such disparate figures?
question 6 by ádám kósa (h-0440/09) subject: proposal for a council directive on implementing the principle of equal treatment for persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation it is absolutely vital to underline the importance of the general principle of access for all. this will bring benefits not only for people with disabilities, but for the majority of people in europe’s society within 10 years. will the council consider establishing a uniform basis for an anti-discrimination policy, without exemptions (e.g. for the design and manufacture of goods), in order to create a sustainable society and eliminate the hierarchy of legal provisions on combating discrimination? given that access to infrastructure and services is a very real challenge for many people in many countries, i regard it as totally unacceptable to postpone for 10 or 20 years the imposition on member states of a requirement to adopt new rules providing for genuine, better accessibility of (new) infrastructure and (new) services. is the council in any way considering a further extension of the deadline for transposition of the accessibility requirement for existing and/or new infrastructure? if so, why?
question 7 by vilija blinkeviciute (h-0445/09) subject: safeguarding the rights of disabled people when economic conditions are complicated, it is very important to ensure adequate social protection for the most socially disadvantaged. disabled people constitute one of the most vulnerable groups in society. it is highly regrettable that attempts are being made to balance national budgets by reducing social benefits and programmes for disabled people. this not only runs counter to the principles of solidarity and social justice but weakens the processes and mechanisms integrating disabled people into society and increases their social exclusion. has the council made provision for additional measures to help disabled people during an economic recession? will not the unfavourable economic situation slow down consideration in council of a proposal for a council directive putting into practice the principles of equal treatment for disabled people?
i am sure that in the context of this discussion the house would wish me also to congratulate mr kósa on his election to the intergroup chair. questions 8 and 9 have been withdrawn. question 10 will not be taken as the subject to which it refers already appears in the agenda for this part-session. as the author is not present, question 11 lapses.
question 13 by ryszard czarnecki (h-0458/09) subject: discrimination against the polish minority in lithuania does the council intend to compel the lithuanian government to respect the rights of national minorities, given that discrimination against the polish minority in lithuania has a long history and manifests itself in the obligation to use the lithuanian spellings of polish surnames, discrimination in education, the ban on bilingual place names and the failure to return property seized from poles by the soviet authorities? when does the council intend to take action in these matters?
question 14 by brian crowley (h-0462/09) subject: persecution of buddhist monks and nuns in vietnam following the adoption of the european parliament resolution on the situation in laos and vietnam on 26 november 2009 (p7_ta(2009)0104), what concrete measures have been taken to address the persecution and harassment of buddhist monks and nuns in vietnam?
question 15 by pat the cope gallagher (h-0463/09) subject: iceland's application to join the european union can the council provide an updated assessment on the status of iceland’s application to join the european union?
as the author is not present, question 16 lapses.
we will now take what will be the last question this evening, and indeed the last question of your presidency. it comes from mr hans-peter martin and concerns successes by the swedish council presidency in matters of transparency where i dare say we have something to report.
it therefore remains for me to say, minister, dear cecilia, thank you very much for your cooperation and such full participation in question time during the swedish presidency. we look forward, subject to the approval of this house, to seeing you on that side. thank you very much, and thank you to your team. that concludes question time.
author. − mr president, with your permission i would propose that we delay a moment or two because this is an oral question to the commission and we were hoping that mr mccreevy would be here, but i see that mr samecki is going to speak. i have not met mr samecki before, so i am interested that he is here to provide an answer to an issue that mr mccreevy and his team have been working on. thank you very much. i was going to have welcomed mr mccreevy here and thanked him for his work previously, so perhaps you will pass on our good wishes for what might have been his final appearance here. nevertheless, i am particularly pleased that mr barnier has joined us as a very active member of my committee to hear this, because this is a dossier which will be very much in his in-tray, assuming of course that the parliament approves his nomination and the commission moves forward. it is nevertheless very good that he is here. the free movement of professionals and the directive on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications are among the flagship issues that my committee is most concerned about in the whole construction of the single market. it is very appropriate that we are discussing this question to the commission this morning, which is essentially to ask for an update on the progress in transposing the revised directive that my committee worked on back in 2004-2005, and on how that is actually being implemented by the member states. it is also very timely because professor monti came to our committee on monday to talk about his mission for the president of the commission on the future direction of the internal market. he made a very strong point that part of the problem with the internal market is actually not the lack of legislation, but the consistent enforcement and effectiveness of the existing instruments that we have in place to create the internal market. in the case of the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, as the text of our question quite clearly sets out, we already know that a significant number of problems in relation to recognition of professional qualifications are encountered by citizens across the european union. it has one of the highest levels of complaints in the solvit mechanism that we very much support at member government level. many people feel frustrated by the absence of clear decisions and also by the lack of contact between authorisation bodies in different member states. one of the things that our own research has done, and this committee commissioned research on this topic, is to demonstrate the fact that there is nothing like enough coordinated activity on helping people to recognise their rights under mutual recognition. the other aspect is that it is also clear from the work we and others have done that not enough professions are actually thinking in terms of moving into a european qualifications framework. there are serious questions that we need to ask about the mechanism, about how simple it is to access and about how effective it is in practical terms. we know from the statistics and the information – and i am sure we will hear from the commission shortly – that transposition of this instrument has been delayed in just about every member state. it has taken much longer than people expected to bring this into operation, and that of itself raises concerns about the complexity of the instrument itself. just to pull all these things together in the context of the work of the internal market committee over the next five years, i am delighted that, i think, all the coordinators of the committee are here today and i want to thank them for the work they have done, together with myself, on shaping the forward agenda for this committee. this question of mutual recognition of professional qualifications is not just a one-off. it is part of our feeling that the role of our committee is to continue to investigate, to promote and to make recommendations about the future evolution of the key legislations, the key building blocks of the single market. we know that the commission is due to review the mutual recognition directive in 2011. we plan to have a meeting of national parliaments and national parliamentarians to discuss this proposal. we have already had a hearing on this and we have our research report. these are the instruments that my committee can use and, if the coordinators agree, i am sure that we will be doing an own-initiative report sometime in 2010 to feed into this discussion that the commission will have. that is the context of the question. we look forward to hearing the commission’s reply to set the framework for that, but this is just the beginning of the process and i am sure that the new commissioner will be able to take that forward and work with us to really develop this crucial piece of legislation and make the single market work better.
mr president, before i go onto my question, there has been a lot of talk this morning about solvit. at the last imco committee meeting, we were told of the underfunding of solvite centres. you may want to take note of this before your hearing, mr barnier, but there is one intern running the organisation in one large member state. we cannot allow that to go on, because solvite provides us with an excellent service. my question to the commission is connected to health-care professionals. an impaired professional risks putting patients’ health at risk, and in the most extreme cases can cause death. is the commission considering a legal duty for competent authorities to proactively and effectively share information about struck-off professionals to ensure that the mobility of health-care professionals does not compromise patient safety? the current internal market information system allows for the sharing of information, but only when a competent regulator has a question about an applicant to its register, so we have to have a better exchange to alert authorities when an individual has been struck off due to incompetence. thank you, mr president, for raising this issue for the committee.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, regarding post-2013 cohesion policy, a leaked draft budgetary document entitled ‘a reform agenda for a global europe’ reveal that eu funding from 2013 onwards could change entirely to a nationally coordinated rather than regionally allocated distribution. the draft abandons regional and local level control in multi-level governance, overturning the shared management principle. instead a sectoral approach to the new budget is adopted rather than operating independently within current structures. the proposal to limit the policy to national level would lead to qualifying member states governing redistribution. not only does this mean that net contributors will lose further return funding, but those member states expected to join the european union under future expansion would enter membership under cohesion funding likely to remain for the forthcoming budgetary duration. as a result, those countries who currently shoulder a large proportion of the union’s financial burden, like the uk, will discover they must finance an ever-increasing pool of member states qualifying for support. even fewer will have to carry even more, with a possible loss of the rebate for the uk. with more countries queuing up to join the eu, i am concerned wales will see much-needed support go to newer member states. it is no surprise that some of europe’s richest countries like norway and switzerland have given the european union a wide berth, knowing that they would be paying to fund their poorer neighbours. but wales cannot afford to pay if nothing is paid back out. the move reinforces the european union’s increasing ambition to become further integrated, centralised and federal, yet abandons the regional dimension of cohesion policy which underpins the european union’s pledge to support territorial cohesion and deliver benefits to all members. instead the eu, like a wolf in sheep’s clothing, is covertly abandoning cooperation and compromise in favour of consolidation. whereas the people of europe were told the union – on the grounds that it enhanced trade links – strengthened agriculture ties and promoted equality, the machinations of an increasing bureaucratic global europe see the focus on farming and regional development decrease in favour of an unwanted ambitious global strategy, including increased emigration to countries like the uk. larger shares of the eu budget will need to be devoted to such an agenda at the expense of regions such as wales. the last payments to projects under the 2007-2013 eu structural funds programmes will be made in 2015. there is uncertainty over what, if any, subsequent eu funding will be available to wales in future funding rounds. the implication that cohesion might disappear entirely from richer nations with no mention at all of transitional funding would further disenfranchise the people of the uk. the disproportionate membership bill would be better steered towards funding economic development through self-sufficiency determined by the uk itself. the eu budget review set to be published in the spring will likely see every government in europe declare the necessity for increased public sector borrowing. it seems increasingly likely that the level of funding available to wales will reduce substantially. the consequences will include reductions in programme budgets, less investment in the wider economy in wales and broad-reaching loss of jobs connected to programme management and project delivery. rather than having any sort of beneficial effect on my constituents, the eu will serve a glancing blow to the people of wales if they decide to pull the rug from under our feet. the likely result of the reduction in funding to wales and the uk will have a major impact on our country as a whole which will affect the farming sector as well. it now must be time that the people of wales and the uk have a referendum on its relations with the european union so the people can decide if they want to be governed by westminster or brussels.
mr president, wales is probably the most positively european area in the uk, and the reason for that is that every community, almost every individual and many organisations benefit from european funding, formerly objective 1 and now convergence funding. therefore, if the proposals suggested by the commission are brought forward i believe it would have huge political consequences in areas like wales. it would also of course have huge economic, financial and social consequences for those regions. therefore i think it is absolutely vital that all members of this parliament urge the commission to bring forward proposals which are acceptable to us – and by that i mean proposals which would allow every region across europe that qualifies, to access structural funds – and also to ensure that those areas ceasing to be eligible for convergence funding after 2013 also have some transitional status in the future.
mr president, clearly the house is divided. this is a very delicate issue. there is a lot of confusion. can i please request that we delay this vote until 15.00 so that we can consult both the parties and the groups, and also discover what is actually happening on the ground in morocco?
mr president, this is a private matter for the epp, and i do not see why the assembly should be bored with it.
madam president, nick griffin of the british national party has suggested that my voting is influenced by commercial interests. i want to make it clear that i am proud to be an advocate of low-carbon technologies to fight climate change. i have never requested or been paid a penny for my work; i do it because i believe in it. any shareholdings i have ever had have always been declared in the declaration of interests, and they have never stopped me from criticising some wind-power projects. openness and transparency have always been the hallmarks of my political life, and, before nick griffin tries to smear the reputation of members here, let him explain why the party he leads has failed twice to submit its accounts on time to britain’s electoral commission. his accountants say that the accounts do not give a true and fair view of his party’s affairs. many people suspect that money from his party’s members have been used for personal gain. if he denies it, then perhaps mr griffin could produce a set of accounts that his own auditors will approve.
madam president, if i may misquote john dunning, an english mp in the 18th century, the eu budget has increased, is increasing and ought to be diminished. i voted against the budget resolution because it breaches the 1% limit on gross domestic product. that is a limit we should not breach. we need to be aware that every euro we spend comes from the taxpayer. we should be prudent with their money, and this is not a prudent budget.
madam president, i, like my previous colleague, also voted against the budget. it is interesting how we often talk about european common values and solidarity with the citizens. yet, at a time when many communities and families are struggling, with the current economic situation, struggling to pay the bills, some of them losing their jobs, many even taking pay cuts; i think it is outrageous that we are voting to increase a budget which takes no account of the current economic situation. we need sound finances, we need to show that we understand the concerns of our electorate and we need to be prudent with taxpayers’ money. only in that way can we generate the growth which is so badly needed to help citizens right across countries of the european union. that is why i voted against this budget. i would like to wish everyone a merry christmas and a happy new year.
i would be grateful if mr brok and mr saryusz-wolski would go and have their discussions somewhere else. mr brok, could you have your discussion outside of the chamber, please? could you please have your discussion outside of the chamber? out! mr brok, will you please leave the chamber and have your discussion outside. mr preda, if you wish to make an explanation of vote on belarus, i will take it now. is that what you wish?
i am sorry, it is not possible. i thought you wanted to speak on belarus.
madam president, as we leave for our christmas vacations and our fat turkeys and whatever we eat in the festive season, we must also go with the thought that, in the democratic republic of the congo, many people will die during the same period. nearly five million people have been killed there since 1999, and it is estimated that 45 000 – the size of a small english town – 45 000 people get killed there every month. as we celebrate christmas, we ought to think about this and wonder whether these people in the democratic republic of the congo and ourselves are still living on the same planet. for twenty odd years or more, the united nations has been trying valiantly to bring this situation to some stability, but only with 20 000 soldiers. how on earth can they manage to keep the peace with 20 000 soldiers? we need to help the un do an effective job and arrest those people who are behaving with impunity and who are raping and killing women and children. we need seriously to end this now.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this very reluctantly. whilst it mainly concerned the reallocation of existing funds, it would involve subsidy, by use of the flexibility instrument. however, the main purpose was to reimburse bulgaria and other countries that had been forced to decommission functioning nuclear reactors, against their better judgement. a promise of funding had been made by the eu and that promise had to be kept.
mr president, on a point of order, regarding my request on behalf of my group, the ecr group, to postpone the vote that mr schulz called for to 15.00 to give us enough time to understand what this was all about. that was not actually put to the house. the president just put to the house the schulz motion, and did not put my request for a motion to postpone it to give us two or three hours to cool down and find out the facts. i object to the fact that was not actually put to the house.
author. − mr president, i crave the house’s indulgence, if we can move away from points of order and to the issue of discrimination. there is currently a bill before the ugandan parliament, and some argue: what is it to do with us? breaches of international obligations, the cotonou agreement and breaches of human rights – as we have always shown – have everything to do with us. this bill’s provisions are draconian and among them, let me inform the house, are: any person alleged to be homosexual would be at risk of life imprisonment or in some circumstances the death penalty; any parent who does not denounce their lesbian daughter or gay son to the authorities would face fines and probably three years in prison; any teacher who does not report a lesbian or gay pupil to the authorities within 24 hours would face the same penalties; any landlord or landlady who happens to give housing to a ‘suspected’ homosexual would risk seven years of imprisonment. similarly, the bill threatens to punish or ruin the reputation of anyone who works with a gay or lesbian population, such as medical doctors working on aids and hiv, civil society leaders active in the fields of sexual and reproductive health. hence, further undermining pubic health efforts to counter the spread of hiv. it is vital that this afternoon in this house we put aside our prejudices and we defend those who have no one left to defend them. therefore i warmly welcome the statement by the commissioner on development and humanitarian aid, commissioner de gucht, statements from the british, french and swedish governments as well as president obama and the chair and vice-chair of the us house of representatives’ committee on foreign affairs. i urge the house to give this the high importance which it deserves and to speak out for those in uganda who currently are not being heard.
author. − mr president, uganda is a deeply christian country where traditional values hold sway. homosexuality is illegal in uganda as it is in many african countries. we must of course be sensitive about forcing our more liberal and tolerant values on others, because it can sometimes be counterproductive. but we should not be afraid to speak out against this outrageous bill, because it is clearly a draconian and hugely disproportionate piece of legislation. it would not only be seriously detrimental to the safety and freedom of homosexuals in uganda, but it would also tarnish the image of uganda throughout the world and make it into a pariah. uganda has made many great strides in the past two decades and, in some ways, can be seen as a model for africa’s development. why should uganda’s parliamentarians choose to throw all that goodwill away? why should they seek to place their country alongside brutal iran, which regularly executes homosexuals in public? let us hope that, through our mutual outrage – in this house and in many other parliaments throughout the world – at this piece of brutal legislation, we can convince the ugandan president to veto it.
