mr president, because the slovak and bulgarian issue is so serious, i would also like to ask you to ask the european commission, which is the guardian of the treaties and the accession treaty, to tell us exactly what has happened and why these two countries have taken this decision.
mr president, allow me to inform the house of turkey's provocative behaviour against greece. the continuing violations and breaches of greek airspace, the low flying of fighter jets over inhabited greek islands, the obstruction of safe navigation in greek territorial waters and the disturbance of search and rescue in the same aegean sea area, which is the sole responsibility of greece, as well as the widespread promotion of smugglers by turkey, are ominous elements for stability in the wider region. we must condemn turkey's provocative behaviour and its continued strategy of challenging the sovereign rights of an eu member state - greece - and send a clear message that its behaviour is taking it away from the european perspective.
mr president, since there will be no debate on this in parliament, i would like to stress the importance for the european union of the proposal for a council directive on the implementation of the agreement concluded by the european community shipowners' union and the european transport workers' federation. this directive, which concerns the work of seafarers in accordance with the convention of the international labour organisation, will enable seafarers in the european union to secure decent working conditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the seas that surround the european union are very important for international trade and young people must see their future in maritime professions and support shipping.
mr president, i too would like to refer to the question of natural gas, as we have been witnessing the controversy over this issue for the last ten days. a conflict that has held hostage many eu member states that are energy dependent on natural gas and has created problems for citizens, businesses and industry. the european council in madrid, in the context of the european council in madrid, has been a great success in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and it is clear that the european union is not prepared to accept the new approach of the council of europe. it is clear that, whatever the intentions and allocation, the problem can reappear if no action is taken. the european union's energy doctrine should therefore be reviewed in the light of the need to include other sources of energy. the european parliament should also send a clear message that the european union is not being blackmailed and should be involved in the debate on the design of alternative routes for safe and continuous gas supply. the objective of reducing energy needs by 20% by 2020 cannot be achieved when the current situation is so volatile and uncertain.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which i am sure will be of great help to the commission. this part is over.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by christa klaß, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the framework directive on the rational use of pesticides (06124/5/2008 c6-0323/2008 2006/0132 ((cod)) (a6-0443/2008), and - the report by hiltrud breyer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the placing of plant protection products on the market (11119/8/2008 c6-0326/2008 2006/0136 ((cod)) (a6-0444/2008)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, the revision of the basic guidelines on state aid to public service broadcasting, which was initiated by the french presidency, is a very timely debate both within many member states and for the position of the media at european and international level. at the same time, however, the revision of the telecommunications package, which essentially restructures the way and criteria for allocating spectrum at european level, shows that the rules governing the financing of audiovisual providers are now of fundamental importance for the future regulation or deregulation of services related to the information society, innovation, as well as public and economic interest services. this is the political question we are essentially called upon to solve. it is clear that the discussion on state funding is in principle focused on the so-called public service broadcasters, as defined by each member state, given the substantially smaller resources at their disposal, but above all the important public interest role assigned to them. the important role of broadcasting organisations is mentioned in the unesco convention, the amsterdam protocol and the 2001 commission communication. the commission has already set up a platform where the role of the public media is clearly defined. but the state aid debate has been opened. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to mention a few points: first, the question of the definition of the public service remit should not be confused with the question of the financial mechanism chosen for the provision of those services. while public television may engage in commercial activities, such as selling advertising time, in order to achieve certain revenues, this has been condemned by some governments, such as the french government, and is reversed under national law. on the other hand, commercial broadcasters subject to public service obligations also play an important role. the coexistence of private and public service providers is a key component of the european market. i would like to close with one more thing: the commission's proposed ex ante state aid examination procedures should be of concern not because subsidiarity is postponed or overlapped, but because they must be examined as to whether they are compatible with the state aid conditions. finally, it should be noted that the issue of national aid to radio stations and the media should be examined in the context of international relations, because european organizations have to compete with international giants and strict legislation will damage the european achievement and the community acquis.
mr president, commissioner, as the undersigned colleagues in the oral question have pointed out, and as distinguished speakers have said in detail at the public hearing in brussels last week, we must all see public television as a means of providing information to the public which will, to a large extent, meet its operational obligations. the public debate, the independent supervisory authority and the diversity of programmes, in accordance with the history and culture of each member state, need to be protected in the light of the development of new technologies and the number of organisations involved on a daily basis. in the context of healthy competition, the commission needs to identify new ways of protecting the public interest and public television. in particular, the public service mission of broadcasters must be clearly defined; to improve the assessment of state aid; the commission's prior assessment of the impact of the directive on the free movement of goods and services should not be subject to unnecessary administrative and financial burdens on member states and public service broadcasters. more effective control mechanisms must also be established in the new media environment. moreover, since public broadcasting plays a decisive role in cultural and linguistic diversity, all these media, but also public organisations and television, must provide quality programmes and, at the same time, in competition with other relevant operators, must be able to respond positively to the challenges of the times by broadcasting events of global interest, such as the olympic games, the world cup, etc., which today, unfortunately, tends to be overturned by the fact that public television, as private operators have more money, cannot cope with the costs. the citizens will therefore not be able to watch these events along with the rest of the programmes. in conclusion, i would also like to point out that the current market offers and the interests of the commercial media in determining the scope of competence and activity of public service broadcasters are not, in the same way, related to the general interest, with a few natural exceptions. the commission should take this seriously.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the report prepared by ms mcguinness and the intense debate which has taken place in the various ep committees on the elements surrounding this very topical subject, which range from trade to biofuels, price monitoring, investment policy, the financial crisis, climate change and water use in agriculture. the commission shares the broad analysis on the causes of the food crisis which hit many developing countries in the first part of 2008. the commission will continue to analyse the link between food prices and energy prices. the causality issue is a highly complex one as it involves the interplay of a number of demand and supply factors. energy prices constitute only one of these factors but one which has both a direct and indirect impact. the topic of biofuels was discussed in detail during the various ep sessions. there is a clear difference between eu and us policy on the extent to which cereal production is being diverted to biofuels. eu biofuels policy does not reduce the availability of food, as the quantities of feedstocks used are very small on a global scale. even if the eu moves closer to its 10% target, the impact on food prices will be limited, in particular for two reasons: first, more and more biofuels will come from non-food feedstocks or will be made from residues or waste. second, the efficiency of techniques for producing biofuels will further improve, and average yields can also be expected to continue to increase. a sustainable eu biofuels policy is overall a pro-poor policy. it will provide additional opportunities for the two thirds of the world’s poor who live in rural areas and thus depend on a thriving agricultural sector. however, not all groups will benefit to the same extent. the commission is committed to closely monitoring the effects on food security and on food prices. the eu has already taken steps in order to address global food security by adapting the cap to the changed market and global situation. the health check which was recently agreed will modernise, simplify and streamline the cap and remove restrictions on farmers, thus helping them to respond better to signals from the market and to face new challenges. the agreement on the health check abolishes arable set-aside, increases milk quotas gradually leading up to their abolition in 2015, and converts market intervention into a genuine safety net. new challenges, such as climate change, water management, renewable energy and biodiversity, which will have an impact on developing countries, have also been addressed in it. the cap will not remain static after 2013, and the preliminary debate has already been engaged since the informal agricultural ministers meeting in annecy in september. the future cap has to be seen in the context of a broader vision in which sustainable development, competitiveness and global food balances will form an integral part. various high-level events have placed global food security high on the international agenda. there is a clear understanding and recognition internationally to place agriculture and rural development higher on the policy agenda at national, regional and possibly at continental level. for example, we have discussed in detail the topic of agriculture and food security during our college-to-college meeting with the african union in october, a debate which we intend to intensify in the course of this year. last but not least, the commission needs to follow up on the g8 leaders’ statement on global food security. in the run-up to the adoption by the council of the food facility on 16 december, the european commission has already had very fruitful discussions with the un high-level task force. the european commission looks forward to the implementation of the comprehensive framework for action. the commission is convinced that the global partnership on agriculture and food security which is gradually taking shape will have a key role in implementing the various recommendations made in this report, including how to support smallholder farmer production and what type of trade policies should be adopted to contribute to food security, especially in the most vulnerable communities. evidently, export restrictions and bans should be avoided and the way forward is more rather than less trade liberalisation. enhanced trade flows are part of the solution towards food security. the commission hopes that the bold step taken by the european institutions to mobilise the one billion euros which will complement other financial instruments which have been earmarked to respond to the food crisis – of both a short- and medium- to long-term nature – is followed up by other donors. the madrid conference on food security for all on 26 and 27 january is certainly a key event to move the debate to another level, one that seeks to identify the key priorities to address world food hunger. the european commission will continue to play a proactive role in contributing to global food security and the mcguinness report has certainly been a good analysis to look at some possible avenues which could be considered by the ec and the broader international community.
in writing. the international and regional agreements have so far proved insufficient to achieve market and trade supply harmonization, transparency and price stability for agricultural products. the regulation of agricultural markets should be based on a long-term strategy of effective measures and on the organisation and information of producers on the situation and prospects of the markets. the basic principle of such a policy is to establish an income safety net against risks and crises arising either from adverse natural phenomena or from market distortions and unusually long and extensive price falls. integrated and effective policies are needed, such as: - european and international production and market monitoring systems for early warning and determination of production trends; - a global inventory of food and food stocks; - a european market monitoring system for recording changes in prices of agricultural products and input costs, which can be combined with an international equivalent within the fao. it is also desirable that the future doha round agreement should include emergency situations in which food aid is allowed because the provisions so far are not binding.
in writing. the ec's solemn meeting on the 10th anniversary of the un in a period of deep capitalist crisis is followed by repeated ec resolutions and reports on the same subject and is another attempt to gild the pill of the anti-people, anti-worker policy of the eu, which, after the upheavals in the socialist countries, proceeded to the maastricht treaty and the full-scale attack on workers' rights and freedoms. the un, the creation of the ekt and the introduction of the euro are necessary links in the chain of capitalist restructuring that capital is promoting in order to defend itself against workers' demands, to ensure its profitability through the intensification of the exploitation of the working class, the popular strata. the arguments for price stability and reducing inflation, protecting economies from risks and crises have proved futile. the un protects the profits of monopolies, facilitates privatizations - mergers. in this decade, workers have seen their incomes shrink, their employment relationships deteriorate, their insurance rights evaporate, health and education services deteriorate, they are commodified and privatized. the workers reject the euro-road and its supporters, the lisbon strategy and the lisbon treaty and fight against the un and the eu itself for popular power and economy.
in writing. the world food problem, instead of shrinking, is growing and affects all layers of the population not only in the least developed countries but also in the most developed. this is mainly because the main criterion for the production of agri-food products is profit and not the world's food needs. the inclusion of food in international stock exchanges has resulted in skyrocketing prices and, accordingly, profits for multinational food companies, a deliberate reduction in agricultural production and global food stocks, and an increase in the number of undernourished people. in order to deal with this unacceptable situation, which condemns 1 billion people to malnutrition and starvation, the report confines itself to wishes that are cancelled out by its obsession with continuing the same policy: support for the cap, its revisions and 'diagnostic control', the conclusion of the wto negotiations, the decoupling of aid from production, the continuation of the production of biofuels, under the pretext of the environment, using land that could be used for food production. it does not even set out the principles of food sovereignty and security, the right to food self-sufficiency. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus, and for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus.
in writing. the report on public finances to the un endorses the anti-union decisions of the council and the commission which aim to strengthen the competitiveness of monopoly enterprises in order to safeguard the profits of capital by shifting the burden of the deep capitalist crisis onto the backs of the workers. the anti-people framework that the eu has established, through the stability pact and the lisbon strategy, for the conduct of the budgetary policies of the member states, particularly the un, is being strengthened. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the criticisms that the huge sums allocated to the crisis are not reaching smes and, even more so, workers are false. the outdated and failed models of state intervention that cover up market failures are wishful thinking and an attempt to disorient workers by seeking social consent in a rotten system. the only solution is the workers' struggle for popular power and popular economy to overthrow capitalist barbarity.
mr president, the current dominance of parliament's view on the council's attempt to impose the biometric record of six-year-olds is a victory over the fundamental principle that personal data may only be collected if it is proved necessary, proportionate and of course useful to do so; a principle which i fear has been frequently ignored in recent years by the council and the commission in their legislative initiatives. in the case of children's passports and fingerprints, it's obvious that children need their own passports with their biometric data in an effort to prevent kidnappings, child pornography, trafficking of children. but at the same time it is obviously illegal to collect this data if it is not necessary. and as far as fingerprints go, we have studies that show that for 6-year-olds, they're not even useful. their fingerprints change so quickly that passports and identification through them become useless. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it requires the commission to undertake a serious study to see when children can be protected from their fingerprints and it allows fingerprints to be taken only at ages when we know for sure that this is the case. finally, in any case, as regards biometric data in passports, we say 'yes' to identifying the holder; 'yes' for its identification; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the author of the report, mr lambsdorff, but also the shadow rapporteurs on the great work they have done. the main characteristics of the european market are the fragmentation at national level. the export of products related to this defence and security sector is subject to national authorisation systems which differ in terms of procedure, scope and deadlines. this new legislation promotes transparency and lays the foundations for the creation of a single open european defence equipment market, which is also a key factor in strengthening european security and defence policy. it is also important that there be substantive provisions on security of supply and information. the use of article 296 of the ec treaty is also clarified, but is now limited to actual derogations as provided for in the treaty and as requested by the european court of justice. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of the role of small and mediumsized enterprises, which in some member states are a sector employing thousands of people, being strengthened through flexible regulations.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, you are right and i will answer the question on human rights and the fight against cybercrime straight away. we must be very, very careful to take up this fight against cybercrime with the will to respect human rights and i would even say to ensure that human rights are respected. we are in fact going to introduce a whole chapter on the fight against cybercrime in the stockholm programme, the multiannual programme for 2010-2014, with the intention, as i said and i say to mr ó neachtain, of having this observatory, located at europol, which will enable us to better coordinate the monitoring of the national institutions responsible for monitoring dubious websites, which are sources of dissemination of child pornography to particularly vulnerable audiences. you are right, we also need to be concerned about the way in which young people are being taken in by a number of sites, at the risk of being in some way assaulted by the creators of these sites and those who frequent them. that's what i can answer. i would like to say again that we have a whole series of actions to take here which must be carried out with much greater determination than in the past, given the risks we now know better about on the net. i also have high hopes for the european financial coalition against commercial child pornography. we will combine the different public and private actors to fight against this distribution, this sale of child pornography images on the internet, and also try to locate and apprehend the criminals. if we can agree on the funding in comitology, i can hope to launch this coalition in february 2009. i thank parliament for all the support it can give us in this respect.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i am answering to mr aylward. the precondition for an effective fight against terrorism and other forms of serious crime is to ensure that the right people have access to the right information at the right time, which is a huge challenge at the level of the european union. we have tried to promote and facilitate the effective exchange of information between police services in the member states. the framework decision of 18 december 2006, known as the swedish decision, which all member states should have implemented by mid-december 2008, i.e. very recently, creates a common legal framework for the rapid exchange of information and intelligence between member states' law enforcement authorities. this framework decision requires that the police services of the member state receiving a request process that request using criteria which are in line with those applied to national requests. that's the first thing. the second is the council decision of 23 june 2008, known as the prüm decision. this decision provides for a detailed mechanism for the exchange of specific categories of data: fingerprints, dna profiles, vehicle registration information, all in order to be able to carry out criminal investigations. under the terms of this prüm council decision, member states give each other limited access to their dna and fingerprint databases in order to be able to check whether any matches exist. this is very interesting because this council decision allows for an extremely efficient exchange of dna and fingerprints. europol, for its part, has a crucial role to play. europol's information system, the etias, allows member states to determine whether law enforcement authorities in other member states have the information they need at operational level. of course, for europol to be able to play this role, the member states must supply this europol information system in a satisfactory way. now we will obviously have to make new arrangements for this exchange of information in the next five-year programme which will succeed the hague programme. this programme will have to ensure a coordinated, coherent approach to information exchange. we must include in this five-year programme a european union strategy on information management. but of course, information sharing also means protecting personal data. the strategy should allow for a comprehensive approach to information exchange that meets the needs of police services and is based on the interoperability of information technology systems. that is the substance of my answer to mr aylward.
the commission's vice-president - the seizure of goods resulting from illicit trafficking is currently being studied. judge jean-louis bruguière was in charge of monitoring the swift programme, the programme to track down terrorist financing. we'll have his conclusions soon. the european union has benefited from information generated by the terrorist financing tracking programme and mr justice bruguière had to verify that all this was done in compliance with data protection. i can say that this is likely to facilitate the confiscation of the assets of a number of people who have made illicit profits. on the exchange of information, i told you that the europol information system could be much more efficient if the member states provided information in a more reliable and transparent way. we'll work on it. it is one of my main concerns to establish this trust between the various intelligence authorities in the member states so that we can move towards much more efficient exchanges. i have not heard of any exception clause in this area. i think i pretty much answered the questions. threats to nuclear power stations: we now also have a text on critical infrastructure, of which nuclear power stations are obviously one, and on which the commission has proposed a text which allows for better monitoring of critical infrastructure.
the commission's vice-president - i answer to mr. france. the eu's 2005 global approach to migration aimed to provide a more appropriate response to the challenges posed by migration to the eu as a whole. this comprehensive approach is based on enhancing dialogue and cooperation with third countries in all dimensions of migration, with a view to establishing a partnership for better migration management. in order to give concrete substance to this comprehensive approach to migration, the european commission supports cooperation initiatives with third countries in the fields of migration and asylum. for example, the aeneas programme, which funded more than 100 projects in the period 2004-2006, or its successor, migration and asylum, which had a budget of €205 million for the period 2007-2010. many of the initiatives selected in an annual call for proposals are proposed and implemented by member states in collaboration with third countries. for example, on the basis of the aeneas programme, the commission is financing a spanish-moroccan project to manage seasonal immigration between the provinces of ben slimane in morocco and huelva in spain. the programme also supports cooperation between spain and colombia to develop circular migration. we also financed the temporary return to cape verde of highly qualified cape verdean nationals present in portugal to carry out information and training activities among potential candidates for emigration. in addition to these interventions, geographical financial instruments, the european development fund, the european neighbourhood and partnership instruments, also contribute to this comprehensive approach to migration. for example, the european commission recently supported the establishment of the migration information and management centre in mali, a project in which some eu member states are closely involved. the commission also proposed new tools to promote partnership with third countries and to develop greater synergies between community and member state action. we now have mobility partnerships, which are a new tool that the european union is putting in place, for now on a pilot basis. these mobility partnerships allow the development of dialogue and cooperation between the union and third countries in the field of legal migration, development, prevention and reduction of illegal immigration. we have signed the first partnerships between the european union and cape verde and between the european union and the republic of moldova. in these partnerships we have made concrete offers of cooperation. for example, in the framework of the partnership with cape verde, portugal has proposed to sign a new protocol extending the scope of an existing protocol on the temporary migration of cape verdean workers for the purpose of providing work in portugal. other tools are migration reports, which are analyses of the migration situation in a given country, cooperation platforms to bring together representatives of the country and the main donors involved in migration in the third country concerned. a cooperation platform has been set up in ethiopia at the initiative of the united kingdom, and another is being considered in south africa. finally, the integration fund and the return fund can of course help the member states to put in place pre-departure measures in third countries which will facilitate the professional, civic and cultural integration of the candidate for emigration in the countries of destination, or, conversely, short-term support measures for returnees. i have given you a number of examples, but above all i would like to say that i am absolutely convinced that europe needs to manage migration flows by means of a comprehensive approach that links migration and development and that really makes it possible to manage migration in a concerted way. i believe that this is what we must strive for and that this will make europe's management of migration an example for the world.
the commission's vice-president - first of all, i would like to reply to mr france that i will of course now use all my strength to develop the overall approach through mobility partnerships between the whole union and third countries. you are right, there are some member states which have succeeded in these bilateral agreements, but this must also be the case for the whole of europe, and you were right to stress the risks of illegal immigration in the absence of a good organisation of legal migration. secondly, the case you are referring to, mr president, is a case which shows that the return policy must be conducted with discernment. it is not a question of sending people back to third countries where their lives and lives will be threatened. so, then, discernment is needed. the return directive, i will not go into it, has been controversial, but it does allow, if it is transposed correctly in the member states, to monitor a little bit how these return policies are carried out. i intend to do so with care and with care.
member of the commission. − firstly i should clarify that the commission does not pursue as a general objective the opening of closed professions. however, in the context of its internal market policy, it considers that the legitimate need for member states to regulate certain activities has to be reconciled with the need to ensure the free movement of professionals throughout europe. it goes without saying that better quality and wider choice in professional services must have a positive effect on the entire eu economy. to this end, the services directive obliges member states to screen their national legislation for requirements applied to certain professions, such as quantitative and territorial restrictions, in order to evaluate their appropriateness in the light of conditions established in the case-law of the european court of justice. by 28 december 2009 member states will have to present to the commission their report on the results of this screening and evaluation exercise. this will give them an opportunity to identify the possible negative repercussions of opening up certain closed professions and justify any restrictions. on the basis of these national reports, the commission and all member states will undertake the process of mutual evaluation and will examine and discuss changes introduced in member states’ legislation as well as any requirements that would have been maintained. on 28 december 2010 the commission will present a summary report to the european parliament and the council on the results of this mutual evaluation process. obviously, requirements to think about specifically regulating the professions will be discussed in this context. in addition, again with the aim of ensuring the functioning of the internal market, infringement proceedings have been opened whenever national rules are found to impose discriminatory or disproportionate restrictions in the area of regulated professions as regards, for instance, access to ownership, incompatibilities or compulsory tariffs. finally, the commission’s work in the field of competition also seeks to stimulate appropriate patterns of review of the existing professional rules within each member state, as provided for in the two commission reports on competition in professional services. national competition authorities are invited to check, in the light of competition rules, whether a regulation has clearly defined both a public interest objective and the least restrictive means of achieving that objective.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. on the other hand, there are certain professions, which i call 'closed', for which money has been paid. i am referring to taxi licences, which are subject to a fee in many member states of europe, and to the pharmacy profession, which is practised by means of demographic and defectionist measures. i would like to hear the commissioner's thoughts on this.
member of the commission. − there are two separate issues being spoken about here by the various members who have addressed this subject. one is the scope of the services directive; the other is the regulation of professional qualifications. the services directive has in its scope all of the services in the european union with certain limited exceptions. the question about pharmacists was raised by mr angelakas. he may be aware that we do have some infringement proceedings against some member states in this particular area. on the question of mutual evaluation which is required under the services directive, each member state has to go through all its rules and regulations before 28 december this year and then we will have a mutual evaluation to see what is proportionate and what is not. the question that mrs doyle raises is that of gambling infringements. she will be aware that we have, in one form or another, some actions pertaining to at least 15 member states at this particular time. there has been court jurisprudence on this particular matter. gambling is a service that comes under the scope of the services directive like everything else, and these matters have to be addressed. there are various stages of proceedings against member states in this area. we are also inundated with lots of other possible infringements in this area.
member of the commission. − the commission has closely followed the activity of the credit rating agencies (cras) over the past few years. following the european parliament’s resolution on credit rating agencies in february 2004, the commission considered very carefully what legislative measures would be necessary to regulate the activities of credit rating agencies. in line with the advice received from the committee of european securities regulators (cesr) in march 2005, the commission adopted in 2006 a communication on credit rating agencies. in this communication the commission concluded that various financial services directives, combined with self-regulation by the credit rating agencies, on the basis of the iosco code of conduct, the methods for cras could provide a satisfactory answer to the major issues of concern in relation to credit rating agencies. it is stated that this approach would require continuous monitoring of developments by the commission. in addition, the commission asked cesr to monitor compliance with the iosco code and to report back on an annual basis. at the same time, the commission indicated in the communication that it might consider putting forward legislative action if it became clear that compliance with eu rules or iosco’s code was unsatisfactory or if new circumstances were to arise, including serious problems of market failure or significant changes in the way credit rating agencies are regulated in other parts of the world. the financial crisis shed a new light on cras. since august 2007 the financial markets worldwide suffered from a major confidence crisis. this financial crisis is a complex phenomenon involving multiple actors. the credit rating agencies are close to the origin of the problems that have arisen with subprime markets. the crisis highlighted poor performance by credit rating agencies. an explanation could be found in the unsatisfactory way the agencies managed their conflicts of interest, the lack of quality of the methodologies they issue, insufficient transparency around their activities or the inappropriate internal governance in the agencies. the subprime crisis demonstrated that the framework for the operation of credit rating agencies needs to be significantly reinforced. that is why in june 2008 i announced that the commission would take regulatory action in this area and on 12 november 2008 the college adopted the proposal covering regulatory activity of credit rating agencies with the agreement of this parliament and of the council.
madam president, commissioner, you yourself said in 2006 in response to a question i had put on this subject that 'in accordance with the recommendations of the european securities regulators committee, the commission is not submitting any new legislative proposals in the field of credit rating agencies'. the great financial crisis has come. and now you've come to tell us that we need a stricter regulatory framework. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i consider this debate to be very important because, with the consent of the european parliament, with the resolution that we will all be supporting unanimously, i imagine, tomorrow, we will be giving a further boost to the implementation of the decent work agenda that we all supported last year. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, and it is also based on the principle of the protection of the environment. the european union countries will all, i imagine, as planned, ratify this convention by 2012. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen in the community are protected against the risks of pollution caused by the use of certain substances. i would remind you that parliament has already voted in favour of protecting women who are involved in fishing or have a connection with fishing. the fact that women are involved in fishing, either directly or indirectly, is very important, because if it were not for the women of the coastal areas, these areas would be much poorer and much less covered. because it is people, not just legislation, who make provision. we are therefore contributing to a coastal culture, a social culture, which will make use of the cultural elements of europe which are linked to the sea and the coastal regions. from the south to the north, each region has its own peculiarities; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, mr prime minister, apart from foreign policy, tackling the economic crisis and ratifying the treaty of lisbon, one of the european union's main priorities must be youth. i read the priority in your schedule. i believe your program should be more comprehensive and more interactive in youth issues. young people are no longer convinced by declarations and promises they feel unsafe in the face of a state that is collapsing unable to cope with the economic crisis. they do not accept the educational systems that put them on the market of unemployment and social deprivation. they do not accept euroscepticism, the fear of europe. they have a problem with the ratification of the lisbon treaty. they clash on a daily basis. the new generation is the one who can understand what it means ... (the president interrupts the speaker).
the president-in-office of the council. - thank you for your speech, i would like to start my final speech by thanking you for all the opinions, it was a very friendly reception, i didn't expect it. i would also like to say that our presidency and myself as president of the european council will be in close contact and cooperation with the european commission throughout the six months. the first 14 days have shown that a very permanent, daily and really very diligent contact not only with josé manuel barroso but with the whole commission has ensured a common approach to the problems that we faced at the beginning of the year, and i am here demonstrating not only cooperation with the european parliament but, above all, communication in solving those operational problems with the european commission, and i wanted to thank president barroso. i swore before i came here that i wouldn't joke and one joke i made that would have made us all laugh, you didn't understand, but that's okay, i'll try it again and again and maybe eventually the german translation will be right and maybe we'll understand each other. the lisbon treaty cannot be a mantra. the lisbon treaty must be a means, not an end. it is a means of improving the functioning of the european union. it cannot be enforced in any way. each country has its own tools and rules of the game to achieve ratification. the fact that i signed the contract does not mean that i will influence the decisions of both chambers of the czech parliament, which are autonomous, free and decide for themselves. nor do we intend to influence the decision of the irish people in advance. it is not possible to enforce the treaty in any way, although i think that it is necessary at the moment and will facilitate the functioning of the european union. that's the end of it, and i'm not going to comment further on that because he's made his personal position on it. i liked to quote mr kirkhope, and i will use another churchill quote to illustrate my view of the present: 'there can be no crisis tomorrow, my diary is already full.' i think what we've been doing these first few weeks is showing that we've got our priorities right and that we've been prepared for this. we started to deal with the gas issue in mid-december during the french presidency. i apologize to all members for not answering their specific questions, i will try to generalize the discussion a bit and try to show a rather general attitude to tackling those specific problems. the question of human trafficking, drugs, children, trafficking in children, etc.: just as there are discussions in this parliament on the level of freedom and security, so too there are discussions in our parliament, i.e. the directive or the whole legislative plan within the framework of the council decision to combat human trafficking, we want to accelerate. i'm just saying that we're ready to do that and we want to address the individual elements of those problems. the big debate about nabucco: but let's say, in all seriousness, that nabucco will be an alternative to other transit routes only if it is also an alternative to resources. and this discussion about ukraine - and my czech colleague josef zieleniec has made it very clear - the problem is political and geopolitical, and if we don't give, i would say, ukraine a chance to fix its internal problems, if we don't actually stop the behavior of individual players, whether individuals or companies in the gas market, then we can get ukraine in its pro-european direction, which is of course a geopolitical problem, and we can only speculate about what the goals of this whole crisis are, whether it's just a short-term price increase or it's a much greater pressure to build nord stream, an alternative northern route or it's really preventing the european direction of ukraine, but anyway, these problems are interrelated and it's not just short-term and it's not just energy. if i were to respond to the recommendation of whether europe should be more liberal or more socialist, i would try one more joke and say that i propose a compromise that it should be liberal conservative, but that's the last joke. the czech republic's path towards adopting the euro: i announced on 1 january that the czech republic would announce on 11 november a possible date for accession. my government is the first government to meet the maastricht criteria. i think that this is not a race, i congratulate my slovak colleagues and we will also wait to see how and what effect the financial crisis will have on the implementation of the rules of the stability and growth pact and on the implementation of virtually all the rules that govern the euro area. i am afraid, and this is also true for the solution to the financial crisis, that diluting the european union's own rules is destructive, and therefore when we talk about europe of rules, we will of course insist on compliance with the directives on public support, on competition, and this will be one of the criteria for assessing all proposals in the context of the solution to the financial crisis. rules are good times and bad times, and that goes for everyone. so this equality has to be absolute. it is a commentary on a europe without barriers: yes, it is intended in at least three senses. in the economic sense, it is the removal of the barriers of the single internal market, in the mental, psychological sense, the removal of the barriers in the minds of individual europeans, which of course the newly acceding countries are aiming at, and also the removal of external barriers, the avoidance of protectionism, the genuine liberalisation of world trade as one of the instruments for solving the crisis, the increase in demand and the actual implementation of the conclusions of the g20 in washington. i might want to say one thing that affects me personally and has already been in the media. vaclav havel is in the hospital. he's very ill. he is a man who symbolizes our pre-october, but also our semi-october orientation, and not only of the czech republic, but symbolizes the fall of the iron curtain. he was the first czech to speak in this european parliament, and i would like to wish him a speedy recovery on behalf of us all. a few very specific responses to the member of this house. i was very moved by mr rouček's concern about the czech government, and i could give at least six examples from the last ten to fifteen years when the countries that held the presidency of the european union had a lot of internal problems and the presidency was successful. it was at the time of the entry into force of the maastricht treaty in belgium, when the state structure was changing and yet the presidency was not affected, it was at the time of the french presidency, when the european union was enlarged to include sweden, finland and austria and when there was an internal political crisis, it was at the time of the treaty of amsterdam in 1999 during the german presidency, when gerhard schröder had big problems and lafontaine left this party, it was at the time of the introduction of the euro during the spanish presidency of josé maría aznar, it was at the time of the irish presidency and i could go on. don't worry about the internal problems of czech politics, the czech presidency won't be affected. nuclear forum: the debate on nuclear cannot be such that the dispute that exists here between the greens, liberals, conservatives, etc., should have some forced outcome. the nuclear forum, which we are organising in cooperation with the european commission in bratislava and prague, should set up a new discussion on security, opportunities, risks, necessity and all the things that have become a bit taboo in recent years. unblocking this taboo is actually the goal of this slovak-czech nuclear forum. why prime minister fico is in ukraine and moscow is obvious, the problems of bulgaria and slovakia are fatal, they are countries that are 100% dependent on gas supplies from ukraine. bulgaria can only draw from the reservoir a third of the power it needs, slovakia already has limited production in thousands of enterprises, its thermal power plant in novatsia has burned down, it is in a rather very crisis situation and i am in daily contact with robert fic and i support his mission, although i do not think it will have a result at the moment. we have to be substantially tougher on both players, on ukraine and on russia, on naftogaz and on gazprom. and i believe that the next steps must be much more effective and more firm both on the part of the european commission and on the part of the czech presidency. we may have to look for tools to overcome some technical problems. it is not possible that for a completely secondary reason, namely the use of a technological gas, these deliveries have not been started, i.e. that we will take further steps in this direction. we didn't talk much about the balkans and related issues and a lot of questions were directed in that direction. mr peterle knows very well that in order to unlock the chapters of the croatian accession process, a bilateral solution to the slovenian-croatian conflict must be found. this is not a european dispute, although it is beginning to interfere with accession talks. in this sense, my contacts with both prime ministers, both presidents and i would say personal input into this problem will perhaps help solve the slovenian-croatian border problems. there is much more i would like to say, however i will try not to delay you any longer, i will try to allow your further proceedings. i would like to say, in conclusion, that we greatly appreciate the possibility of belonging to a community of states that was founded on those values and on those foundations which we can take back as our values and as our objectives after november 1989. we also appreciate the opportunity to preside over this entire community. it's something so unique that my generation, who was 33 in 1989, never expected to live to see it. we also value the ability to solve a lot of problems, and what we value most of all is the freedom of internal discussion. the freedom that allows us to articulate those problems in the spectrum of those opinions that are about to be solved. i can clearly state that tomáš garrigue masaryk said that "democracy is a discussion" and i want to follow in the footsteps of this first czechoslovak president and i am completely open to this discussion. thank you for your attention today, and i look forward to the next one.
president of the commission. − madam president, this has been a very interesting discussion, and i am encouraged by the common understanding of the challenges and generally speaking by the support given to the czech presidency. once again i reiterate my wish to work loyally, constructively and in the best spirit, with our czech friends. their success is also europe’s success. as some of you have underlined, this is the last presidency before the european parliament elections. i think it is very important that during these months we all show how relevant all our institutions are to the wellbeing, prosperity and solidarity of our citizens. it is very important to communicate, and that cannot be done only by the european institutions or only by member states. we have to do it together in a true spirit of partnership, so a lot of what will happen during these months will be very important for the future of europe, and also for the respect accorded to our institutions all over europe. i would like to use this time to answer some concrete questions put to me, specifically on energy. yes, we need an urgent revision of the gas security directive. the commission said so when it presented its strategic energy review last november, and we are working flat-out to put the legislative proposal before the european parliament and the council as soon as possible. yes, we need more solidarity and more progress in terms of energy security in europe. that was the substance of our strategic energy review presented very recently. i would like to use this time once again to ask all member states and european institutions to work more actively on the mechanisms of european energy solidarity. yes, we also need to accelerate investment in energy infrastructure, interconnectors and energy efficiency. that is why it is so crucial to get the eur 5 billion of the community budget allocated for these purposes. i appeal to you, both parliament and the czech presidency, to translate this into practice as soon as possible. yes, economic recovery needs to be coupled with smart green growth if we want to come out of this crisis stronger. our proposals are on the table to accelerate the use of structural funds for these purposes. funds are needed for energy efficiency and for energy interconnections, and by the coordination of national stimulus programmes we will align national efforts in this direction as well, in line with european council conclusions. let me also say that getting through this economic crisis and putting europe back on the path towards sustainable growth will also require respect for community rules on equal opportunities. europe needs to continue facilitating the participation of both men and women in the economy, as well as helping combine family and professional life. a word also on the lisbon treaty, which many of you mentioned: we need this treaty more than ever, ratified by all member states. yes, we need to respect all national ratification processes, but when a government, on behalf of a state, signs a treaty it takes a solemn commitment to put it into force. (applause)many of you spoke about the czech presidency and how important it is. as some of you said – mr nassauer, mr brok and others – the very fact that we have a czech presidency is in itself an event of great importance. it is the first time a former warsaw pact country has assumed the responsibility of chairing the european council. when you think about it, what a great achievement it is, 20 years after the fall of the iron curtain, to have the czech republic at the head of the european council, and to have prime minister topolánek and vice-prime minister vondra cooperating in this responsibility. i have full confidence in what you are going to do. let me share with you an experience i had last year during the portuguese presidency. prime minister socrates of portugal and i were in zittau, on the border between the czech republic, poland and germany, and i saw the emotion prime minister topolánek was feeling at that moment. that border, which once separated us in europe, between the two sides of europe, is now a free point of circulation among europeans from all those countries. it was a great moment and a great achievement, of which we should be proud. that is why i really believe that it is important to defend our values to make a success of this presidency. some of you said it is important that the czech republic be successful, because it is a small country. i am sorry but the czech republic is not a small country, even in european terms. in fact, it is sometimes a sign of an inferiority complex to consider some of our member states as small countries. let me tell you that – as paul-henri spaak, one of the founders of our european project, said – in the european union there are no longer small and big countries; if you like, none of them is big: the problem is that some of them have not yet noticed it. in fact, when we look at the rest of the world – when we see the dimension of america’s strength in terms of defence and in technology; when we see the huge geographical dimension of russia; when we see the huge demographic dimension of china and india – can we say that there are any big countries in europe? there are no longer big countries in europe. all are great in terms of dignity. for the european commission all the member states have exactly the same dignity, but if we want to be big in the world we need the european union to be strong. we need to act together; we need to use the leverage of all our institutions and, if we act together like that, we will make a difference in the world for good. that is why we need the lisbon treaty. that is why we need a common purpose. that is why we need strong institutions. i wish the czech presidency all the best. (sustained applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place next. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
in writing. the statements by the czech prime minister, the president of the european commission and the debate in the european parliament on the programme of the czech presidency of the european union are a continuation of the anti-people policy of the eu of previous presidencies. they sent the message that the attack of capital against the workers, against the popular strata will continue unabated. the eu's imperialist role will be strengthened, as the czech presidency has also shown from the very beginning of its term of office, by supporting israel's criminal imperialist attack on the gaza strip, by legitimising the barbaric slaughter of the palestinian people, in full agreement with the pa and the pa-nato-eu plan for the 'new middle east'. the programme of the czech presidency marks a continuing intensification of the eu's anti-people offensive, aimed at burdening the consequences of the crisis of the capitalist system on the working class and the poor layers of the population. increasing the eu's aggressiveness against peoples, its imperialist interventions, improving its capacity for military intervention throughout the world. the european union's aggression needs to be met by a counter-attack. resistance, disobedience, a break with the reactionary policy of the eu, with the eu itself, is the way of the people.
in writing. even children should be filed because they are considered potentially dangerous to the eu! this is the proposal of the european commission, the council of the eu and the european parliament. the only difference between the proposal for a directive and the european parliament is the age at which a child is considered dangerous. the commission considers that children become dangerous at the age of six (!) and therefore from that age they must give fingerprints which are to be incorporated into individual passports. the european parliament, on the other hand, in a demonstration of its 'democratic sensitivity', considers that children should be registered from a slightly older age, that is, from 12 years of age! this unacceptable directive, adopted by the supporters of the european road in the european parliament, is the inevitable result of the eu's frantic 'anti-terrorist' policy, which, in order to effectively shield the dominance of capital over the workers' and people's movement, dangerously baptizes even children. it seems that the eu is making good use of the experience of the israeli army defending the 'security' of the israeli state against the palestinian 'terrorists' who are slaughtering countless children in gaza at this very moment. i wonder how old the murdered palestinian girls are. six or 12 years old?
in writing. the pse group in the european parliament voted in favour of the catania report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union, but hereby emphasises its opposition to the wording of paragraph 49 and the related amendment 35.
in writing. the report attempts to help cover the so-called 'democratic and social deficit' of the eu, which is deeply reactionary in nature, in order to make it more attractive and to soften the resentment caused by its anti-people policy. it accepts and welcomes all the reactionary principles and institutions adopted in the eu, such as the four freedoms of the maastricht treaty, etc., and seeks to give their implementation a more effective dimension. it is based mainly on the eu charter of fundamental rights accompanying the anti-people lisbon treaty, which is below the guaranteed level of rights of many member states. it is - to a large extent - an exhibition of ideas and an abstract ideology, treats fundamental rights such as those of work, education, health, simply as 'opportunities' which must be provided 'equally' to all, something which is of course unrealistic in practice, and, where it becomes more concrete, proposes to deal only with some extreme phenomena of poverty, discrimination, etc. by measures such as the general introduction of a minimum wage, etc. finally, it is revealing that there is no mention of anti-democratic decisions and persecution of citizens, such as the banning of communist parties and other organisations, and the imprisonment of communists and other activists in eu member countries of central europe and the baltic.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in europe because i believe that it touches on one of the most fundamental problems of our union's construction by making constructive criticism. discrimination in the enjoyment of fundamental rights is mainly the result of the sex, age, origin or sexual orientation of the subjects, as the report rightly points out. the problem is exacerbated when the victims of these violations are unable to respond, mainly because they are confined in mental asylums, juvenile institutions, etc. in the face of this situation, europe cannot remain indifferent, especially since the full respect of human rights will contribute to the consolidation of the european area of freedom and security. in view of the lack of legal binding force of the charter of fundamental rights and the very limited possibility for individuals to have recourse to the community courts, i can only welcome mr catania's proposals for a general obligation for the community institutions to take human rights into account in the performance of their duties and for the creation of a specialised body to this end.
mr president, it is common ground that the situation in gaza is tragic, bordering on a humanitarian catastrophe and requiring immediate action. i would like to congratulate the european commission on its increased efforts, the presidency on its initiatives and the coordination of national mobility in this field, and egypt on the important and sensitive role it is playing. the european union is also calling for a ceasefire in the gaza strip, and for the palestinians to be able to return to their homes and to return to their homes. the commissioner said that there were positive signs for a ceasefire plan and i hope that it will be accepted and respected in its implementation. but what are our next steps? the commissioner and the president-in-office of the council have already said that we must support our objectives of lasting peace and the creation of a palestinian state living in peace and respect alongside israel. these are not new. we have declared them, we have supported them, with no results. the vicious cycle of violence continues with negative consequences not only for the people of israel and the palestinians, but for all the peoples of the region and for the security of the international community. we must now take stock of our actions, our political choices, our practices and take steps that are bolder and different. it is imperative that we have, at bilateral level with israel, an honest, in-depth, self-critical dialogue within the framework of our partnership and friendship, and identify the mistakes made in promoting mutual trust between the two peoples. we must also strengthen such a dialogue with all palestinians, make them understand the importance of peace, cohesion, human life and unity amongst themselves.
mr president, public opinion throughout europe is asking the union for one thing: to put an end to the slaughter of the palestinian people. we must condemn indiscriminate violence wherever it comes from, but we must also be consistent in recognizing that israel is responding with state terrorism on a massive scale. the disproportionate retaliation, the violation of every concept of international and humanitarian law by israel, cannot be tolerated. it is unacceptable to use white phosphorus bombs and other experimental weapons against civilians and it is inhumane to target innocent women and children. if this were to happen in africa or anywhere else in the world, our response would be immediate and the security council's decision binding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that we must use all the political instruments, including the association agreement, to persuade israel to stop its senseless violence against the palestinian people and its denial of access to humanitarian aid. we cannot be passive spectators, because that makes us complicit in the slaughter. the only solution is an immediate ceasefire and the opening of humanitarian routes to gaza, but also the opening of a dialogue with all sides.
in writing. the joint resolution deliberately turns a blind eye to the causes of israel's aggressive and barbaric war, considering it a response to hamas rocket attacks. it is well known that the war was planned and that the causes lie in the israeli occupation, in israel's refusal to implement the un resolutions on an independent palestinian state with east jerusalem as its capital. it is the result of israel's aggressive policy, with the support of the usa and the eu, of illegal settlements and its refusal to return to the 1967 borders. the resolution, although it refers to the cessation of the war, is equally distant, does not call for any eu measures, not even a freeze on the new privileged relations, to put pressure on israel. it does not condemn israel's aggressive policy, but instead intervenes in the internal problems of the palestinians. the signatory powers call for and agree to a stronger eu role related to its imperialist ambitions in the region. they support the us-nato plan for the 'broader middle east' which the eu has agreed to and which aims at the subjugation of the entire region by the imperialists. with this in mind, the kke does not vote for the joint resolution of the political groups, calling for the strengthening of the anti-imperialist struggle, pointing out that there are no good and bad imperialists.
in writing. i refused to vote in favour of the european parliament's joint resolution on the situation in the gaza strip because, despite its positive aspects, it does not unequivocally condemn the military overreaction leading to a humanitarian catastrophe. the european parliament's condemnation and regret of the attacks on civilians and the obstruction of international humanitarian aid is not enough. the european union must take responsibility for the situation and demand that the israeli aggression be brought to an end once and for all and that it should lead the efforts towards a lasting and sustainable solution. the european parliament has been unable to reach a consensus on the need to establish a european union with a strong political will.
in writing. the joint resolution of the european parliament on srebrenica is an attempt to distort history and to silence or shift responsibility to the victims for the crimes of the us-european imperialists in the former yugoslavia, the dismemberment of the country and the barbaric war launched against it by nato, with the participation of the eu. at the same time, efforts are being made to elevate the status of the unpopular american-inspired special court in the hague, which the imperialists seek to use to try their victims and which was already used for the physical extermination of yugoslav leader slobodan milosevic. the characterization of the srebrenica events as the greatest post-war crime, and even the proposal to establish a memorial day in eu countries, while there are still serious questions about what really happened there, is a gross falsification of history because in fact the greatest post-war crime in europe to date is the massacre of the people of yugoslavia by the us-european imperialists. the kke, refusing to legitimize the adoption of such unacceptable resolutions, at a time when we are all witnessing the daily slaughter of hundreds of children and civilians in palestine by israel with the support of the same imperialist forces that massacred the people of yugoslavia, did not take part in the vote.
mr president, we have heard, read and seen, in recent times, civilians being bombed, children being killed and recently we saw a turkish gentleman who publicly confessed that during the turkish invasion of cyprus in 1974 he murdered 10 greek cypriot soldiers in iron bars. what we have not seen, mr president, is the willingness of the hague criminal court, a willingness which was so obvious to those involved in the events in yugoslavia; they're still being hunted by the court. i think it is therefore legitimate to ask parliament to tell us whether there is a list of countries which fall within the jurisdiction of the hague court or whether there are countries which are indifferent and disregard the hague. i think it is fair to ask which countries and their citizens are to be brought before the hague court as defendants and which are not.
mr president, the rural demonstrations in greece, among other demonstrations in europe, are sending important messages of change in current perceptions of agriculture and the food question, calling for a review of european and national policies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. it is appropriate for the commission and parliament to enter into a dialogue and to put forward proposals to deal with the problems not only of the survival of small and medium-sized farms but also of their exit from the crisis in the coming years, the activation of the intervention mechanism, the strengthening of the crisis management mechanism to cover even loss of income and national policies that can gain more flexibility without this necessarily implying co-financing of the common agricultural policy.
mr president, it took a long time to rid the balkans of sterile nationalisms which are not in line with european standards of behaviour and values. but it seems that some people need to get this message back. in october 2008, the government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia submitted an application for community financing for the road axis 10 which runs through its territory. just two months later, in a scandalous decision that was even published in the official newspaper of that country, they decided to name this axis "alexander the great of macedonia", in flagrant violation of the interim agreement with greece, which explicitly provides for the avoidance of government propaganda and the use of symbols that contribute to enmity, hatred and violence. i call on the european commission to link the request for community funding to the withdrawal of this scandalous decision which reminds us that there are still nationalists in the balkans. we have built a europe in which nationalism has no place.
madam president, small and mediumsized farmers have been on the streets for 15 days in a struggle that has shaken the whole country. the common agricultural policy, which is jointly formulated and implemented by the greek governments, and the agreements within the world trade organization have led to a reduction in agricultural production, a drastic reduction in the income of small and medium-sized farmers and an acceleration of the eradication of small farmers. greece's agricultural trade balance went from surplus to deficit, reaching about eur 3 billion in 2008 alone. the new democracy government, instead of satisfying the basic demands of small and medium-sized farmers, is trying to deceive them with empty advertisements and, at the same time, is mobilizing special forces to suppress their struggle. the communist party of greece and the workers support the struggle of the small and medium farmers against the common agricultural policy, the entire anti-people policy of the european union and the bourgeois governments, demanding guaranteed lower prices for agricultural and livestock products that cover the production costs and improve the income of small and medium farmers.
member of the commission. − madam president, we are facing the greatest economic challenge for a generation, and in that challenge both developed and developing countries face difficult and very important decisions. we need a positive effect from globalisation to respond to the negative effects of globalisation. it is my strong belief that, wherever we begin to look at what we need to do, we will end in the conclusion that completing the multilateral trade round – the doha round – is of vital importance to us. i probably do not need to remind honourable members of what history teaches us about protectionism, the importance of keeping our markets open and the possibility for our businesses to be able to trade across the world. i probably do not need to tell all honourable members that, simply within the rules of the world trade organisation, if countries moved from applying their tariffs the way that they do at the present time to applying them in the way they are allowed to do under the rules, then the cost to trade would be something of the order of eur 260 billion. i am sure i do not need to remind honourable members that, as the developing nations consider the future, they are deeply concerned about what will happen to some of the aid that has been available to them so far. so, in terms of where we are: we know the value of a deal that is now 80% complete and that in july 2008 80% of what needed to be done was done. within that agreement, the value is of the following order: the gains in the developing countries would be of the order of eur 12-14 billion annually; there would be new access to emerging markets in emerging countries, such as china; we would have the opportunity in the european union for new exports, diversified in new ways – for example, in chemicals and textiles – and in services there is a potential for eur 14 billion of trade. another fact at the present time is that the non-tariff barriers – the non-tax barriers – in china alone in 2007 cost european union companies eur 20 billion. this is a hugely important round. i have just returned from davos, where discussions between trade ministers reinforced the need to get back to the negotiating table and, of course, the technical discussions are continuing in geneva. we all wait for the new american administration to review its trade policies, as it currently plans to do, and to reach the same conclusion that we have reached. we look forward to the g20 on 2 april 2009 and the opportunity it affords world leaders in terms of looking to resolve the financial and economic crisis and having the opportunity to discuss again the need to complete the round. then there are the indian elections in april or may, which of themselves will be the moment for an existing or a new government to return to this subject. of the outstanding issues that were left on the table, there is the special support mechanism, which, in the end, was the issue that prevented the talks from continuing between india and the united states. there are new proposals being considered. a decision is still to be taken on cotton, but again there are proposals on the table. for the united states there are real issues about particular sectors. there is no doubt there is still much to do, but it is my strong belief that, with political will, all these issues can be resolved, and the alternative is not an option. for us, issues around services are very important and will follow on. in conclusion, we are at the moment at a particular point where the need to complete this round is very obvious and very clear, and i look forward, on your behalf – as well as that of the commission – to continuing my efforts to ensure that we do.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the union is, as is well known, the world's largest exporter and the main source of foreign direct investment. the union is one of the most open markets, while our leading partners maintain high trade barriers. we are seeking a substantial reduction in the duties in force and an end to unjustified non-tariff barriers. in addition to the third advanced industrial countries, there are the emerging economies which must make concessions commensurate with their level of development and sectoral competitiveness. the problem, however, is not simply the removal of barriers: differences in regulatory regimes create additional costs for exports, put european products at a competitive disadvantage compared to those imported from countries with more flexible standards and, in many cases, raise safety and protection issues for european consumers. the prolonged failure to reach agreement is exacerbating the climate of economic uncertainty and is a blow to the very credibility of the multilateral trading system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. furthermore, the economic crisis may trigger the erection of unilateral, restrictive or distorting barriers to trade. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the same worrying trend is being followed by the clause on the protection of american products adopted by the house of representatives. i would say that a return to unilateral approaches is not the answer. today more than ever we need to manage challenges together with more positive integration. by establishing or strengthening international regulatory regimes with systemic convergence. we need a new international economic architecture. we need a more transparent and balanced global trade governance and on this, commissioner, we are waiting for a comprehensive proposal for 'globalisation with a european face' which will take account of the changes already made but also of the interconnection of the commercial and economic dimension for a europe that is transparent, democratic and effective in the world at this time of crisis.
madam president, the strategic choice of the european union and the bourgeois governments, in the midst of the deep capitalist crisis - a crisis of capital accumulation and overproduction - which is also afflicting the member states of the european union, is to use the world trade organization as an important support with an active role in enforcing the full liberalisation of trade and exchanges, privatisations and acquisitions, the penetration of european monopolies into new markets. the doha round talks are aimed at a coordinated all-out attack by capital so that multinational companies can plunder the raw materials of third countries and increase the exploitation of workers throughout the capitalist world. the anti-people common agricultural policy is the exchange for promoting the european union's objectives of liberalising the markets for non-agricultural products and services in order to secure positions in the imperialist pyramid. it is clear that we are interested in international trade and its development on a mutually beneficial basis. but it is impossible, under imperialist conditions, for world trade to be equitable and based on mutual benefit. this is why it is imperative to escalate the workers' struggle in an anti-imperialist, anti-monopoly direction in order to bring about radical changes both internationally and in each country individually.
member of the commission. − madam president, i shall try to address briefly the concerns that members have raised. mr papastamkos, i agree with you on the legal and regulatory burdens. it is very important that these are addressed properly. it is important to resolve them, and i also agree on the importance of safety in that context. a number of members, notably mr lundgren and mr rübig, as well as mr papastamkos, talked about the ‘buy american’ provision that is currently going through congress. members will know that this is based on the 1979 trade act. we already have that provision, but through the government procurement agreement we have reciprocal arrangements whereby nations which sign up to it can bid for those projects. what we are hoping – and we have been talking to the americans about this – is that we end up where we were before. i have read the legislation. i too am very concerned about it. i am going to america at the end of february to meet the new united states trade representative, who, we hope, will have been through his confirmation by then, and members can rest assured that these are very important issues to be raised. mr ford raised some of the issues about bilateral relations. korea is progressing, and on asean i am looking for the flexibility which mr ford and i have discussed before, in order to try and move forward on that, but i agree too that there is no substitute in terms of value and importance for the multilateral arrangements. on what we said about india, prime minister singh has made it clear he is very committed. i agree with mrs mcguinness that the question of agriculture for india, which i shall also return to, is very important. i was with kamal nath in london last week, debating doha, and he as trade minister for india raised exactly same the point as mrs mcguinness about the incredible importance of low-level subsistence farmers. i fully agree with her comments and indeed with what the minister was saying. mr pannella, i do not think that we are quite at the mercy of events. i think we as europe have to push forward, use our influence and make it absolutely clear that we agree with what you said about the critical importance of battling against protectionism. it is a big challenge and one of the challenges contained within it is communication, making sure people understand. mr hénin has not stayed for my response, unfortunately, but it is not a matter of sacrificing industry for consumers. this is about industrial growth and development. it is about protecting workers’ jobs, because we know the importance of trade and export to doing precisely that. as for institutional change at the wto, we could spend our time on that, but i want to spend my time on finding practical ways through this difficult economic period. mrs wortmann-kool talked about services. i agree this is very important. it is very important too to be transparent. i could not agree more with that. mr assis, protecting our interests, not protectionism, is absolutely right. there is a fundamental difference that we have to be clear about, and we have to make sure of protecting the work force in all of this. on agriculture, as i said, it is critically important to make sure that we are able to develop our industries. this is about food production, and it is very important in the doha round. my colleague mariann fischer boel has worked very hard to make sure that the european position on agriculture is secure. it forms a fundamental basis for all the work that i do in our bilateral, regional and multilateral talks to make sure that the best opportunities are provided to protect all of our agriculture in the future. as for the fermentation industry, mr rübig, i understand these issues are currently being discussed, but i will be more than happy to come back to you with specifics. finally, on small and medium-sized enterprises, mr siekierski, it is very important that we are protecting our small businesses. i am working closely with günter verheugen to get enterprise and trade collaborating effectively to make sure that we provide opportunities for small businesses to tell us where they need markets to open, to support them in helping those markets to open, and to support them in trade.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is understandable in this climate that there is concern about the success of manufacturing in the face of competition, and of course textiles are very important. employment has continued to drop and production has fallen again – and that is after a couple of years of relative stability. of course the sector is at the cutting edge of globalisation. small and medium-sized enterprises play a huge part in this. following the end of the memorandum of understanding in 2005, we did have the agreement on the joint surveillance system – to which mrs wortmann-kool drew our attention – and it has given us early information about trade flows. we are therefore better able to react in the event of being faced with a sudden surge in our industry. it is also a further step in the transition to open markets designed and developed – as i am sure members know – with the economic players concerned and in discussion with member states and with parliament. by promoting a process of gradual change, we have helped the sector adapt. that has been supported by the social partners. they did not ask for an extension of the voluntary growth levels under the memorandum of understanding (mou) when it ended in 2008, nor have they been asking for a continuation of the surveillance system into 2009 – though i appreciate that some member states would have preferred us to do so. imports from china have increased overall, but within reasonable limits. significant increases in some categories – such as for example dresses, trousers and pullovers – have been balanced by drops in textile imports from suppliers in other countries. so, overall in 2008, only a slight overall increase was realised and markets have absorbed that reasonably well. the right political responses are not to close our markets or monitoring of the imports. we need to ensure that all businesses can change, adapt, trade and innovate out of current conditions. it is precisely to help businesses like this that the economic recovery plan was endorsed. that, of course, represents a huge boost of 1.5% of eu gdp, which should help the textile and clothing sector. the challenges for the sector predate the current slowdown. eight of the fifteen applications under the globalisation adjustment fund have been to support textile workers. the commission is ready to support initiatives to set up partnerships in the textile and clothing sector designed to anticipate restructuring with the aim of protecting employment and, overall, the sector benefits from the fact that there is a long-standing framework for social dialogue. we welcome parliament’s resolution on the future of the textile sector. we move forward in market access, in funds from the lead market initiative, and in every free trade agreement, as causes dedicated to environmental and social standards. of course currency devaluation remains on our agenda.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the textile and clothing industry is a highly internationalized sector of the economy. a sector characterised by constant changes in the places of production and by constant restructuring and adaptation to new circumstances such as the liberalisation of international trade flows. for many member states of the union, including greece, this sector is an important source of export production and employment. however, the significant relocation of production units and the steady decline in employment have taken on alarming dimensions. in addition to structural problems, the sharp divergence between the union's import duties on the one hand and those of our major competitors on the other plays a negative role. commissioner, we are talking about a sector which represents a particularly high proportion of the total seizures of counterfeit products at the union's borders, with a constantly increasing trend. in this connection, i welcome the proposal to set up a european observatory on observed products in order to achieve better coordination between the competent authorities and the member states, as well as the commission services, and in terms of effective synergy with the private sector. i believe that it is necessary to adopt rules on the 'made in' mark of origin which will help to ensure fair competition and consumer protection. the establishment of more effective rules of origin is important for the application of tariff quotas under generalised tariff preferences and regional agreements. we are called upon to create a new framework for cooperation between industrial and regional policy actors and businesses. effectively support european enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, to maintain and further improve their competitive specialisation. i am referring to the production of products with high added value in terms of quality and design, innovation and the use of new technologies.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to start by congratulating the committee on industry, research and energy and the rapporteur mrs laperrouze. they worked very hard to prepare this report on security of supply as early as this february plenary in 2009. when she started work, no one could have expected that we would have full gas supply from russia via ukraine, and this definitely draws more attention to the issues of security of supply. concerning the gas crisis, what is the current state of play? all the volumes nominated are reaching their destinations, so this means that most of the consumers have full supply of gas. there is still one stream missing in poland; we are working on it. it is exceptional in that it was supplied by rosukrenergo, which is now out of the deal, but we are also working towards full restoration of gas supplies to all parts of the european union that have been affected by the crisis. as the supply agreement is for 10 years, we can expect this agreement to provide a good basis so that we do not see this type of situation in the future. i would also emphasise, though, that all the eu monitors are still in place following the flows of gas and we expect that there will be no need for them in the future. i have written to my colleagues in russia and ukraine asking how we should proceed with monitoring in the future, because in my opinion, if we trust the deal and if it is stable, then no monitoring is needed now; however, the monitors are currently there. i believe that we should not remain idle on this transit issue. we should continue to work with both sides – with the supply side, russia, and with ukraine as a transit country – and we should really ensure that there is separation between the gas supply to ukraine and transit flows going to the european union, and that these transit flows are financially beneficial for ukraine too, bringing profit to the country and giving it much-needed economic benefits. we will continue to work on this issue, but basically we can say that the gas crisis is over. what are the lessons to be learnt? i mentioned this the previous time, but the lessons are that the eu is more robust than we expected. it is true that in this difficult situation eu countries worked with one voice through the presidency and support from the commission. we have seen much evidence of solidarity when member countries helped other member countries. we also have the strong realisation that the internal market worked where it could work. i was also very pleased about the strong and coordinated response from the european gas industry, first of all demonstrating a common position vis-à-vis gazprom, but secondly also in creating a common proposal that could be useful in case there is no permanent agreement between russia and ukraine. what were the weaknesses we discovered? the first was the lack of infrastructure. that was quite obvious, and that was also partly why the market could not work. the gas price and the spot market have not increased particularly but this is just because in some parts of the european union where the gas supply was needed most there was no additional possibility to deliver gas. ´ there were some cases where solidarity could have been greater. we have also seen other cases where there was not sufficient transparency, and we definitely need a stronger coordination mechanism to address the crisis. the strategic energy review that was proposed by the commission back in november addressed five areas where mrs laperrouze and the itre committee go into more detail and streamline these. they are: energy efficiency; use of local resources (and i would like to mention that, for 2008, 43% of installed capacity comes from wind energy; it is the biggest capacity installed, and wind is a local energy); external relations, i.e. that we are working with our colleagues; crisis mechanisms; and infrastructure. i believe that one important point where the commission will make a lot of further effort is on the call in this report for the consolidation of activities in different areas, because we have really developed a lot of activities on the energy and climate change package implementation, on the technology, on external relations, on the internal market. but it is very important to see how to consolidate these, and what additional steps if necessary we should take. i shall end with one particular proposal that the commission elaborated, very much related to this issue, but also to the general economic crisis that we face. it is the part of the recovery package related to energy. there are three issues on which we are proposing that the funding be used. eur 3.5 billion is for infrastructure – it is not to support each and every project but to increase the diversification of gas flow from south, west, and east, and to try to get a balanced and sustainable gas supply mix. on electricity, looking at the weakest points, these are the isolation of baltic countries and the iberian peninsula. then there are two issues that are sometimes seen as a luxury, but in my opinion they are extremely important issues: offshore wind – it is crucial that we have public support for the projects that are ongoing – and carbon capture and storage. these are absolutely necessary in achieving our climate change objectives globally, but will also give a much-needed boost for european industry to develop the technology that could be used in the future. so we are looking at combined security of supply, technology objectives and also european recovery objectives. i believe this is the right proposal. the volume of funds is not huge, but i believe they are going in the right direction and the public should be involved to strengthen security of supply in the european union.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me first thank mr remek and the itre committee for having worked so much on a topic which is of utmost importance, because it is true that through ict we can make a major contribution towards combating climate issues and achieving a 20% reduction in both consumption and carbon emissions. it is a huge challenge, we know, but it is not insurmountable and can only be achieved if we know how to use ict. that is why the commission is not talking but acting in the following way. firstly, we have been working on a communication on a comprehensive strategy for ict to address our energy and climate problems. this strategy will be accompanied by a recommendation in which we set the tasks, the targets and the timeline for actions in the ict sector, actions by stakeholders and by member states. these actions aim to accelerate the adoption of ict as an enabler so that we can master the energy demands of our homes, of our businesses, and of our society at large. now, at what level? firstly, of course, at the level of ict products themselves. their carbon footprint is of absolute importance and i know that the industry is working on this. we hope this work will be achieved by investing in research. the second level is ict as an enabler across the board and in all sectors of economic activity. we need incentives here in order to change behaviour – as the rapporteur said, ‘penser autrement’ – but this will only happen in governments, in administrations, in businesses, and for citizens, if they understand what potential there is for making savings. that means we have to measure what we have now and what we do better. if we do not measure, we will not have results, and that is why we need a baseline against which improvements can be measured. the challenge of measurement and of quantification will be at the heart of our proposal. also at the heart of this proposal is how we proceed from research results to innovation and practical achievements. of course, we started with research. the commission’s r&td funding programmes aim to exploit this potential in the systems and infrastructures for services too. the most significant results are expected in areas such as electricity distribution, buildings, transport logistics and lighting. the rapporteur is right: you need to have cross-sectoral participation in those projects. that is also why we established cross-sectoral research projects and worked very closely together with the industry to reduce the time between research and development and innovation. that is also the reason why, in our innovation programmes, we supported the demonstration and validation of new solutions and technologies in real world settings in order to maximise their set-up. reducing the footprint of ict products also forms part of this research. as regards funding, we have so far invested more than eur 4 000 million in this initiative. in the recovery plan proposed by the commission, public/private partnerships for r&d are high on the agenda, with one of the three initiatives we propose being energy efficient buildings, a domain where ict will of course play a predominant role. one of the pilot projects being put into action now is the intelligent transport system. we have already invested a lot in in-car intelligent systems and we are now moving to the next step, which is the relationship between the car and the road and traffic signs. i agree with the rapporteur here that it will be very important to have our own satellite programme to become more efficient in that respect.
the committee on foreign affairs and security adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs laperrouze and thank her for the cooperation we have had throughout this period. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. firstly, a common european external energy policy with a focus on the security of energy sources and energy routes. in an age when battles are fought over energy sources, we all understand the importance of this proposition. secondly, deepening relations with other countries, firstly with energy-producing countries but also with countries through which energy routes pass, i.e. transit. thirdly, a new generation of energy interdependence provisions, and indeed binding ones. the energy interdependence clauses are of great importance in our negotiations with other countries and, for example, in the negotiations in particular, since the issue of concluding a new agreement with russia to replace the one of 1997 was topical. we have already mentioned the battle over energy sources, which is an important issue and one which leads to a diversification of energy sources and the ways in which energy reaches us. there are many important projects at the moment. i would like to mention south stream, the tgi (turkey-greece-italy) pipeline, nabucco and, of course, the caspian, because we have discussed this many times, but i have here a map of the caspian sea and i think that when we look at the caspian sea we have to look at all the sides: both the side that is azerbaijan and the side that is turkmenistan - we will discuss this tomorrow or the day after tomorrow in the european parliament - but i would also stress the importance of turkmenistan and, of course, iran.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change, the need for energy security and the strengthening of the competitiveness of the economy are leading us towards the third industrial revolution, the era of our gradual decoupling from fossil fuels. it is a real revolution which will bring about enormous structural changes in the pattern of production and consumption and, ultimately, in the way of life itself. i hope that we as the european union will maintain the global leadership of this revolution. this will require every effort to reduce the energy intensity of the economy in all sectors. one of the tools for improving energy efficiency is to exploit the potential offered by ict technologies. significant incentives are needed to harness these technologies to increase the union's energy efficiency by 20% in the context of the trio 20, 20, 20 by 2020. the resolution we are called upon to adopt the day after tomorrow, which refers to the enhancement of energy efficiency through ict, places particular emphasis on research and development in cutting-edge technologies such as nanotechnologies and photonic technology which have a high potential for improving energy efficiency, and on the design of policies to promote the take-up of these technologies. it also provides a significant impetus for more green innovation and entrepreneurship. among a number of measures and actions, i will make special reference to green public procurement, which will enable public bodies to play a leading role in energy saving by exploiting the best technological applications of ict. the resolution also provides incentives for intelligent and integrated energy management systems in our cities and for intelligent traffic management systems by streamlining road behaviour and transport systems. the resolution we are voting on the day after tomorrow, although not a legislative one, is of great importance because it essentially makes ict one of the main indicators of sustainable development in the european union. i therefore urge you to support it in the vote the day after tomorrow.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think ms záborská’s work is very important because the subject she is tackling is one which is of the utmost importance in our society. the question of dependence will become more and more important in the future because of demographic ageing, but also because of equality between men and women as the care of children and dependants is still carried out mostly by women. therefore, we have to put into practice measures that help women enter or stay in the labour market by improving family life conditions, especially those that facilitate a balance between professional and private life. as specifically concerns the situation regarding the care of dependants, the commission has already put the following actions on the table. filial leave to care for dependent family members was included in the consultation of the european social partners on the reconciliation of work, private and family life. the commission is also studying the quality of services for elderly dependent people and protection against ill treatment, as well as measures which could be taken at european level in cooperation with the member states to speed up the development and modernisation of infrastructure and services. the eu cohesion policy, through the european social fund, will continue to cofinance initiatives at national and local level. the open method of coordination in the field of social protection and social inclusion pays particular attention to the modernisation of pension schemes to take greater account of new forms of work, career breaks and long-term care for dependent people. we are working on this, and really look forward to collaborating very closely with parliamentarians. we would like to congratulate parliament on the very important work done.
i would like to point out, mr president, that in this report, which was adopted by an absolute majority in the committee on women's rights, there is also an alternative resolution tabled by some colleagues. we shall be called upon to vote tomorrow, choosing between the resolution of our colleagues and the resolution tabled by a committee of this parliament. one overthrows the other. we cannot speak about this alternative resolution in the house, nor can we hear the colleagues who have tabled it, nor can we express an opinion on it. it's a flaw in the new regulation that you have to take into account.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs angelilli on her excellent work on such a sensitive subject which concerns us all. the sexual exploitation of children is a phenomenon that continues to shock societies in the member states of the european union and beyond. child pornography on the internet is a growing problem, with the number of websites containing child sexual abuse material estimated to have increased by one thousand percent between 1997 and 2007. enhanced cooperation with the private sector could effectively contribute to the restriction of websites hosting child pornography material. for example, cooperation with credit card companies could be promoted to combat child pornography online at european level by using their systems for payments to commercial websites selling photographs of children. in addition, the new community programme on the protection of children when using the internet will help to promote a safer online environment. the council of europe convention, signed by 20 european union member states, is the first international legal instrument to criminalise the various forms of sexual abuse of children. in order to tackle this problem effectively, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the member states should criminalise all forms of coercion of children to engage in sexual activities. finally, i think it is very important to take account of the criminal records of paedophiles and to prohibit them from entering jobs or voluntary activities involving direct contact with minors.
mr president, i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council. but since you said that you would be putting forward your own proposal in march, i would like to ask that this proposal combine many policies of the european union and not just one direction: the proposal should include penalties, strict measures and cooperation with europol, whose convention is the first to deal with trafficking in human beings. let us not forget that in addition to the threat, the violence, the deceit, the abuse of the relationship of dependence, especially in the relations of kinship, we also have exploitation that comes from the deliberate exposure of people who are mainly of such an age that they cannot react. i'm referring to the phenomenon of the marketing of exposed infants that we've seen emerge online. and when i say internet, i don't just mean the fixed internet and the online conversations that children have from their bedrooms, but also the many other media, even mobile phones, that children can use and for that reason we have to anticipate all the parameters. when we talk about criminal offences we have to think about the situation in the correctional facilities and prisons. when we decongest these institutions we have an increased risk of these phenomena occurring. we must also make provision for the improvement of the living conditions of victims, we must protect victims and their families, since the violence of abusers is spreading and the means they use are more powerful than the means of defence available to victims, because they are mainly financial. i hope that your new proposal will be characterized by a higher level of protection for minors and by high standards of means.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i think this debate has shown the unanimous commitment of the european parliament to protect children. i would like to make it as clear as possible that we are going to review the framework decision which relates to the protection of children. we want to improve its content to bring child protection in the european union up to the highest international standards, including the new council of europe convention of 2007, and national best practices. the legislative proposal will include new sources of incrimination in criminal prosecutions to deal with the new forms of abuse facilitated by new technologies. we'll make it easier to investigate, to charge; i'm not going to go into it. in the area of victim assistance, we will facilitate access to justice for victims. and then, above all, we will also organise prevention with, on the one hand, management of convicts on the basis of an individual diagnosis and the risk assessment of each convict. on the other hand, we will try to prevent and minimise the risk of reoffending and put in place measures to ensure the optimum effectiveness of safety systems throughout the union. in this respect, the ecris system, which will allow for the interconnection of criminal records, will be very valuable. i also had questions about extraterritoriality. we will also take the opportunity to propose more binding measures in this respect, to prosecute crimes of sexual exploitation committed by nationals of the countries of the european union in third countries, even if the third state where the crime was committed cannot or is not in a position to do so. that's kind of the spirit. we will of course, madam angelilli, follow very closely all the recommendations in your report for the development of this framework directive. i would also like to say to parliament, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not enough to have a good legal framework, we must also have the tools. that is why at european level, around europol, we are seeking to create a platform which will allow the aggregation of information collected in the member states and the dissemination of reports and statistics from the national platforms. several countries in the european union have such platforms, but it is now necessary at community level to ensure that all this information can be known to each other. this is where the european union can add value, provided we succeed in creating this platform around europol. i would also like to say that we have a second tool which i believe very much in: it is the informal public-private group set up by the commission, which is setting up a european financial coalition against commercial child pornography. the quadrupling of the number of sites between 2003 and 2007 requires the involvement of the private sector, which controls much of the it infrastructure. the access providers must be involved. it's the most important thing. the coalition will bring together all stakeholders: non-governmental organisations, banks, credit card companies, online payment organisations, internet service providers and other private operators on the internet. the aim is to locate and confiscate the proceeds of criminal activities. this is a major element if we are to put an end to a number of commercial practices which exploit this child pornography. i could give a brief answer to that, madam president, but we shall have occasion to return to this important subject. i should also like to add that we had a very pleasant day last week on data protection. we have seen young people who have issued remarkable warnings to other young people to warn them about the use of the internet. you know that there are now more and more devices that allow families to better monitor and secure the use of the internet by the child. i'm not saying it's perfect, but there's still a lot of effort and we need to mobilize the entire online community. i would like to emphasize the abduction alerts, because they have not received much attention. it is very important, as parliament did in its statement of 2 september 2008, to encourage member states to have alert systems and to conclude cooperation agreements to prevent cross-border outbreaks. in addition, you very generously created a budget line to encourage member states to set up these systems, or at least to link them together for 'abduction alerts'. we know that when the "abduction alert" is triggered very quickly, it can be very effective. i would like to stress to the european parliament the absolute tragedy of these child abductions, often for pornographic purposes. i thank the european parliament once again for its support for this fight for the protection of children. i would also like to add that i have noted the few interventions on data protection in court proceedings concerning children. i cannot go on, but i would like to stress that in march we will try to provide the european union with a legal framework which will be exemplary and which will be aligned, once again, with the highest standards of child protection.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the next item is the report by mr claudio fava on sanctions against employers who employ illegally staying third-country nationals (a6-0026/2009).
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, we have succeeded as a parliament in radically changing the aim of the directive we are discussing today. i would like to congratulate mr claudio fava on this. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. secondly, we have helped to provide for strict and binding criminal sanctions against employers who employ immigrants under unacceptable living conditions. thirdly, we have guaranteed the right of trade unions and other bodies to bring cases in the courts on behalf of immigrants and, fourthly, we have imposed the right to grant short-term or long-term residence permits to illegal immigrants who uncover criminal networks. in other words, we are treating illegal immigrants as human beings without at the same time legitimizing illegal immigration, and that is why we support this compromise. however, a dangerous mismatch remains between the ongoing police approach to illegal immigration and the reality in many member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. it could lead to thousands of illegal immigrants being driven into poverty, ghettoization and criminality, and while it is clear that we cannot or do not want to deport them, these illegal immigrants may be left without work. if it is true that many illegal immigrants are now taking up jobs in europe that no european wants, we should now finally be discussing in this chamber common rules on legal immigration to europe and the legalisation of these people, rather than new rules on their deportation. finally, madam president, the absolutely necessary fight against the black labour market obviously does not only concern illegal immigrants, it concerns mainly legal immigrants, it concerns millions of european citizens whose labour rights are violated every day by their employers, it concerns the fact that labour laws are violated, without effective control and effective sanctions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. this targeting of migration, every time something goes wrong in europe, is very dangerous for the social cohesion of our countries. we must fight illegal immigration, but we cannot demonize people who flee miserable conditions in their own countries in search of a better life.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, today's proposal is part of the overall effort to find a solution to the immigration policy in the european union, which, of course, we must all admit is characterized by insincerity. insincerity because we are trying to correct some aspects of this policy with the blue card, with the decision to deport illegal workers, with today's decision to punish employers of illegal immigrants, but these are only some aspects of the problem we are trying to correct. of course, we cannot understand how an illegal worker takes up work and finally punishes the one who employs him to cover his living and accommodation expenses. it is a logical contradiction which we must cover by the conditions imposed by decent work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the problem is therefore complex and, of course, the compromise reached has many gaps. i see a gap in the workforce, which is, i would say, mostly used by individuals for charitable purposes, and they provide work but also find a way to make a living. what will become of them? how will they live out the rest of their lives in forced residence if the neighbouring countries have not accepted the return of migrants?
in writing. i voted in favour of the angelilli report on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, because it urges the explicit compliance of all member states with applicable international law and the revision of the relevant council framework decision in order to improve the protection of children at european level. the figures from the united nations are dramatic. the vast majority of victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation are children and adolescents. international cooperation is essential to combat these crimes comprehensively and all member states must ensure that their perpetrators are brought to justice.
in writing. the political forces which support imperialist barbarity, wars, the plundering of productive resources and the exploitation of peoples are complicit in the daily crime that is also being committed against millions of children in the world. they are responsible for the millions of children who are hungry, malnourished, forced to work, who in the countries of the "civilized west" live below the poverty line. the millions of children who are victims of sexual exploitation, and the objects of the booming child pornography industry with its enormous turnover and profits, which exceed 3 billion euros from the internet alone. the penal measures proposed in the report are not capable of protecting children because they cannot and do not want to tackle the main cause of corruption and deception at an unprecedented rate: profit and the deeply rotten exploitative capitalist system. nor do measures such as the abolition of double standards, the monitoring of communications and the arbitrary interventions of law enforcement authorities on the internet contribute effectively to the protection of children. on the contrary, experience has shown that such measures, which are adopted initially on an exceptional basis in the name of combating crimes that meet with general outrage and disgust, are attempted to be legitimised in the popular consciousness in order to later acquire a generalised character of restrictions on individual rights and democratic freedoms.
mr president, the inhuman prison at guantanamo should never have been opened. at least, it seems to be closing now, but any congratulations to president obama should certainly be tempered if the reports in the american press that he is maintaining the unacceptable practice of secret abductions, interrogations and imprisonments in third countries are true. the european union is unfortunately also responsible for the latter in the fight against terrorism. it is deeply troubling that the only national parliament which has invited the european parliament to present the findings and recommendations of the committee we had on the cia is the american congress. we have not been invited by a european government or a national parliament. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union.
mr president, the decision by the new president of the united states to close guantanamo bay prison was one of his first major and positive moves and i warmly welcome it. but president barack obama did not revoke the cia's right to arrest terror suspects on foreign soil and transport them to holding facilities. this is a very worrying situation and this concern should have been reflected in the joint resolution. but the joint resolution of the two major parties in the european parliament says nothing, and that forces me not to vote in favour of this joint resolution.
vice-president of the commission. − you will be clearly informed about the full procedure and it can be scrutinised. it will be a very clear and transparent decision. the reason behind the idea of having so-called ‘other sites’ outside the european quarter is precisely because we want more efficient use of money. if we concentrate all our services in the european quarter it gives real estate developers enormous opportunities to ask very high prices, which we have already seen in many cases. so, to have other sites as well is a necessity, especially to moderate the costs. that is the main idea. we already have some buildings and some sites outside the european quarter. we have buildings in beaulieu, we have buildings on the rue de genève and some others also. we are interested in looking. we have asked for 70 000 m2 to be proposed and we will then examine all the possibilities. you mentioned heysel. i read about it in the newspapers. i do not know anything about heysel. yes, since i read this, several belgian politicians have approached me and talked both for and against the site, but it has never been considered as some kind of preferred option. nothing has been decided. it is a process. it is of big interest for belgian and brussels politicians, this location of the sites, and the brussels region is also interested in having our location outside the european quarter, so we will make this decision. we have an assessment committee which is examining the proposal at the moment and then it will come before the oib board and then later to the commission. it will be a transparent process. i suggest, though, that we keep out of belgian internal debates and interests.
vice-president of the commission. − the european community has developed a number of actions to protect the euro against counterfeiting, but in response to your question about the situation with regard to the fight against counterfeiting, it is as follows: in 2008, according to figures published by the european central bank, a total of 666 000 counterfeit euro banknotes were removed from circulation – so, a little over 600 000 compared to 20 billion genuine euro banknotes: this number is not too alarming. historically, the 50-euro note has been the most counterfeited banknote, but in the second half of 2008 – for the first time – the most counterfeited banknote was the 20-euro banknote. for euro coins, a total of 100 095 counterfeits were removed from circulation in 2008, which represents a decrease of 7% compared to 2007, and the two-euro coin has always been by far the most counterfeited euro coin. so it is closely monitored. the roles are divided. the european central bank is responsible for the coordination of the fight against counterfeiting of euro banknotes; the commission, especially its service olaf, deals with the counterfeiting of coins. the real law enforcement happens at member state level, but the coordination is carried out by the european central bank. we have a technical and scientific centre, which carries out the analysis and classification of new stamped counterfeit coins. it is important to mention that europol is playing a substantial role in fighting counterfeiting. so this is the situation with regard to the counterfeiting of euro banknotes and coins.
vice-president of the commission. − i am directly responsible for olaf, and olaf is dealing, as i mentioned, with counterfeit coins. i have no indication that there is bad cooperation between member states and between european institutions, including europol where i have been and where i have seen the technology of detecting counterfeit banknotes and coins. therefore, i think that the situation is more or less satisfactory, compared to several other areas where cooperation is not so good. but in the area of counterfeiting, the commission has no indication that there is a problem in cooperation between europol and national law-enforcement agencies. on the contrary, europol has specialists from national law-enforcement agencies there, and they are working closely together to fight counterfeiting.
madam president, commissioner, on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the euro and in the midst of a global economic crisis, i would like to ask the commission whether it intends to ask the european central bank to authorise the issue of one and two euro banknotes, because these are essentially the two currencies which we have found to be counterfeited, with the latest case being the turkish lira which, as far as you are aware, looks like the two euro coin and so the counterfeiting continues.
the florenz report, madam president, is based on scientific assessments and shares to a large extent the concerns of the public. it is a step forward from the energy package adopted by the council in december, but we must move away from estimates and move towards concrete measures, regulations, timetables, because climate change and its consequences are here and there can be no further postponement. we must be careful not to allow this report to be infiltrated by means of subtle amendments by the back door into the nuclear energy issue, which is irrelevant to this report, as some governments are seeking to do. we must ensure that this report, without any changes that upset its balance, will push the council and the commission to go one step further and not undermine the efforts made so far in the name of the economic crisis. economic crisis and environmental policies can go hand in hand and have a positive effect on both the environment and job creation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposals must be directed towards growth, employment and solidarity: three alphas which will shape the future of future generations. what does he need from us today? it takes responsibility and determination to adequately finance this great climate change development project and new dynamic development agreements beyond and beyond trade restrictive agreements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. it should therefore be recalled that agriculture is already part of national commitments to reduce emissions by 10% by 2020, that there are already significant proposals from the cap for environmentally friendly agricultural practices and that international agreements on agriculture should be reciprocal for all international partners. the commissioner, the food model is directly linked to the climate model, if we can convince society itself. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. a society that lives with different cultural values.
in writing. climate change is the result of capital's unprofitable exploitation of natural resources for profit. the eu blames the workers, their lifestyles and their consumption habits. he wants to put the wolf in charge of the sheep, by giving the responsibility for mitigating climate change to the very people who are causing it: the monopolies and the multinationals. energy, water, forests, waste, agricultural production are being privatized and concentrated in a few multinationals, now also in the name of the environment. the smooth functioning of the 'free market', the liberalisation of markets and capitalist restructuring are the core of the measures proposed in the ec report. the eu's agreements with third countries require the liberalisation of markets and public services in all these areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the promotion of mutants and the promotion of monoculture crops are destroying biodiversity. the protection of the environment is used as a pretext even for imperialist interventions in accordance with the "solana doctrine". the green economy promoted by the eu and the us is a way out for the over-accumulation of capital, the securing of profits for the monopolies, with an intensity of exploitation, of workers and of natural resources. not only does it not solve the problem of climate change, it actually exacerbates it.
in writing. the commission proposal for a directive and the european parliament's report on the subject, on the imposition of sanctions on employers employing illegal immigrants, are a monument to hypocrisy and deception. the real aim is not to punish employers who barbarically exploit migrant workers but, on the contrary, to punish, arrest and forcibly deport migrants to their countries of origin. it forms part of the eu's overall anti-migration policy, as expressed in the 'migration pact', and is a continuation of the infamous 'shame' directive, which provides for the detention of 'illegal' migrants for 18 months, their deportation and a ban on their entry into the eu for 5 years. in fact, the proposal for a directive and the report of the european parliament, which are moving in exactly the same direction, are intensifying the repression against immigrants, are methodically excluding them from society, and are actually facilitating their even more savage exploitation by capital. the committee on budgets voted against both the report and the commission's proposal for a directive. it supports the just demands of immigrants for their legalisation, the abolition of undeclared and uninsured work, higher wages and salaries, equal pay for work of equal value, and full protection of social and political rights.
in writing. meps also want to see the eu's newly elected president, mr prodi, appointed by the european parliament, and the european commission, as the eu's first ever eu commissioner for foreign affairs, to be elected by the european parliament. the resolution calls for the "fair trial" of those whom the pa considers to have evidence against them, and calls on eu member states to accept prisoners in their own prisons, as part of eu-pa counter-terrorism cooperation. it is indeed ridiculous and complicit to accept the trial and conviction of prisoners, when we know the medieval tortures they suffered and therefore the credibility that such evidence can have after many years of inhuman imprisonment. the celebrations and the salutations to obama are cultivating illusions in the people about the politics of imperialism. as far as this issue is concerned, the relevant guantanamo decree retains the ability of the cia to "abduct terror suspects" and transfer them to secret prisons.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, this debate on consular protection is, once again, a timely one. a series of events over the last few years have highlighted the importance of consular cooperation among the eu member states. from lebanon in 2006, through chad to the recent tragic events in mumbai – all have demonstrated the growing risks to citizens of the union when travelling abroad. the extent of these risks is even greater as increasing numbers of people take advantage of low-cost travel to visit more remote regions of the world. cooperation between member states in this area is therefore important. it offers a better service and an enhanced level of consular assistance. this is of direct benefit to eu citizens. the treaties provide us with a basis for this cooperation. article 20 states clearly, and i quote: ‘every citizen of the union shall, in the territory of a third country in which the member state of which he is a national is not represented, be entitled to protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any member state, on the same conditions as the nationals of that state. member states shall establish the necessary rules among themselves and start the international negotiations required to secure this protection.’ the rules mentioned in this article are set out in a decision which was adopted in 1995. this decision specifies that assistance within a third country may be requested from a member state other than one’s own, on condition that there is no accessible permanent representation or accessible honorary consul competent for such matters. in practice that means that a consul who is asked by a citizen of another member state for assistance should refuse such assistance if that citizen’s authorities (consulate or embassy) are also represented. the 1995 decision is a decision between the member states, reflecting the fact that consular assistance and protection is an exclusive national responsibility and that consular relations are governed mainly by the vienna convention on consular relations. the rules on cooperation in this area also reflect the fact that consular assistance and protection are viewed differently in different member states. some, for example, consider it to be a fundamental right of all citizens. others consider it to be a service provided by the state. that is why the treaty refers to consular protection as an ‘entitlement’ and not a ‘right’. since the jolo crisis in 2000, consular cooperation has been further developed to include aspects of crisis management. the terrorist attacks in the us showed that even third countries with sophisticated infrastructure can find it difficult to cope under extreme circumstances. member states subsequently drew up guidelines to handle such crises. although non-binding, they have been used effectively on a number of occasions and have been refined in the light of experience. the council has recently developed the ‘lead state’ concept. this means that, in the case of a significant incident, particularly in a country where few member states are represented, one or two member states can take the lead in coordinating action in matters of protection and evacuation. there has also been increased cooperation with some countries outside the union, for example the us, with which we have annual consultations on consular issues. norway, switzerland and canada have also cooperated with the eu on specific incidents, for example during the lebanon, chad and mumbai crises. the commission and council secretariat are also part of european consular cooperation. several years ago the council secretariat set up a secure internet forum through which consular authorities exchange information on issues such as updating travel advice. the council has also put at the disposal of member states a sophisticated teleconferencing system which has been widely used during consular crises. about three years ago, a platform for exchange of information and political coordination of action at eu level was established. this platform is called crisis coordination arrangements (cca). the two main actors of cca are as follows: first, the presidency, assisted by the council secretariat and the commission, decides whether to trigger the cca; second, coreper ii is the ‘action platform’ responsible for coordinating member states’ action or preparing any decisions that may need to be taken at eu level. the main operational tool is the eu joint situation centre (sitcen) of the council secretariat. sitcen provides logistical and information support. in addition, successive presidencies have organised regular consular crisis management exercises which have proved particularly valuable. a european consular training programme was launched at the end of 2008 with the aim of improving cooperation between consular officials, both from capitals and in the field. the co-location of consular facilities is also under consideration. there is certainly more that could be done. many other issues, for example prison conditions, parental child abduction and consular information policy, are discussed regularly. but we also have to accept the reality that, whilst expectations and demands from citizens grow continually, resources for consular authorities are always limited. support for improved cooperation in the consular field is not always matched by adequate budgets at the national level. squaring this circle will remain a challenge. experience shows that cooperation in the consular field is valued, and there are a number of cases where we can be pleased with the results. the successful evacuation of over 20 000 eu citizens from lebanon in 2006 is just one example. the presidency is committed to taking this work forward, and i would like to thank parliament for its support.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i represent my colleague jacques barrot today, who would have liked to have been here himself, but has other institutional commitments. article 20 of the treaty establishing the european community provides that every citizen of the union shall enjoy consular protection in a third country in which the member state of which he is a national is not represented under the same conditions as nationals of that member state. article 20 also provides that member states are to agree among themselves the rules necessary to ensure that right. mr vondra has just reported on this. to this end, member states have introduced coordination mechanisms, in particular with the consular protection guidelines of 2006 and 2008, which are not legally binding but which help to enable the missions on the ground to enhance their cooperation. in addition, the diplomatic missions and consulates of the member states and the commission delegations are required to strengthen their cooperation in accordance with article 20 of the treaty on european union. in december 2008, the council agreed on guidelines for the implementation of the concept of the so-called 'lead state' in consular cooperation. the new regulation provides that in the event of a major crisis affecting consular protection in the third country concerned, a member state is designated as the 'leading state' to take charge of the protection of union citizens on behalf of the other member states. the lead state shall coordinate the action of the member states on the ground and ensure that all union citizens are supported. any person who is entitled to consular protection by his member state may ask the lead state for assistance. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive on the carriage of goods by road. the lead state shall also be responsible for coordinating and directing the measures of assistance, reunification and, where appropriate, evacuation to a place of safety, with the support of the other member states concerned. however, member states have yet to agree on what exactly is meant by the wording of article 20 of the ec treaty, which states that 'no member state is represented'. it is also intended to cover situations where an eu citizen, for whatever reason, cannot be reached by representatives of his or her home country. member states are currently working on common criteria for this purpose. that's all the paperwork says. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i have seen on the speakers' list that mr guardans cambó, mr sajjad karim and mrs erika mann wish to make a statement. i'm sure you'll tell us something about what you experienced in mumbai last december. i have the impression that, although only three member states do not have an embassy in new delhi and only seven do not have a consulate in bombay, it was very difficult to find adequate protection for the european citizens concerned. i say this because you should learn from such an experience. the european commission, based on this experience, believes that much remains to be done to ensure that citizens of the european union can truly enjoy the full rights guaranteed to them by article 20 of the ec treaty. citizens expect the european union to provide added value for their protection in a third country. finally, the protection provided by diplomatic and consular missions is not limited to crisis situations but also includes assistance in everyday situations. the commission proposes, among other things, better information for eu citizens we have already recommended that the text of article 20 be printed in all passports, posters have been distributed in airports and travel agencies, the commission is working with the general secretariat of the council on a website on consular protection which will provide an up-to-date list of member states' embassies and consulates in third countries. as part of its task of better communicating to eu citizens what citizenship of the union means to them, the commission is ready to deal with any problem in this area brought to its attention by citizens and to do everything it can to give effect to the protective rights to which union citizens can rely under article 20. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty would provide a clear legal basis for eu legislation in this area. the new wording of article 20 of the ec treaty (article 23 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union) allows the adoption of directives 'establishing the necessary coordination and cooperation measures to facilitate such protection'. the commission could therefore present legislative proposals in this area in the near future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i was the rapporteur from the committee on civil liberties on the green paper on consular and diplomatic protection for european citizens in third countries and, for that reason, i continue to have a particular interest in developments in this area. i said then that article 20 should be applied more broadly and include more rights for the european citizen, because this would strengthen the concept of european citizenship and demonstrate in practice the benefits that the european union brings to everyday life and, finally, strengthen european solidarity. the recent events of the terrorist attack in mumbai have demonstrated the usefulness and the need for increased coordination of the protection of nationals of the member states of the european union in similar circumstances. the publication by the council last december of guidelines on the application of the principle of the head of state in consular matters, in the event of a crisis, is a positive first step and contains important ideas. but we are looking forward with great interest to the legally binding proposals. i realize that there are enormous practical difficulties. i think it is particularly important, however, that it should be clear how the european citizen who is in the place of the crisis will be informed of the identity of the state in charge. what has been checked so far does not seem satisfactory. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply and to thank the commission for its work in this area.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me say that all of us have at some time experienced environmental, natural or man-made disasters in our respective countries. that is why i fully share both your sentiments and your concerns. the solidarity fund has to date offered assistance to 20 member states, including four times to france, to germany, greece, cyprus, portugal and many others – 20 altogether – but i know, and i share your view, that we should improve. we should make it even more practical and give greater assistance to member states. we shall continue our efforts to have those improvements approved by the council. i am glad that we have parliament’s approval for this, and your support will be a great help in our efforts. as i said in my introduction, the commission is fully committed to assisting france and spain, which were hit by winter storm klaus, and will mobilise all relevant european instruments to express european solidarity towards them. the commission is ready to examine the possibility of mobilising the solidarity fund but, as a first step, we need an application for this from france and spain. they have 10 weeks to apply for that assistance. i was asked whether we have in the pipeline other measures to improve the system of solidarity to member states for natural disasters, and so would also like to mention that, apart from the review of the solidarity fund, we have an upcoming communication whose objective is to identify measures that could be included in a community strategy for the prevention of natural and man-made disasters. to sum up, it is the view of the commission that the solidarity fund is already a very useful instrument but, of course, there is scope for improvement, and we shall continue our efforts to that end.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 142) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the reasons for the decision.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the use of waste oils containing pcbs in a food recycling plant in ireland.
member of the commission. − madam president, this discussion has been really lively, and many questions have been put. many assumptions have also been made, and i would agree with mrs doyle that we have to be patient and wait for this investigation to finish. then we can draw our conclusions and take decisions for the future. one thing i have to say – i was not involved at the time but have heard about it – is that similar incidents happened in germany and in belgium, and there was wide information about those incidents in all the member states. so i would have thought that a prudent member state would have taken more stringent control measures. but even with the most stringent control measures such a thing may happen, either because of fraud, or because of negligence, or whatever. our responsibility is to see to it that we have legislation – which i believe is now satisfactory – and to see that member states comply with that legislation. our duty as the commission is to have controls and to see that member states do their duty. fvos make their inspections, and fvo reports are open to the public, so the extent to which there is a compliance with our laws can be implied from those reports, which are even prepared on a country by country basis. a number of you raised the issue of traceability, which is indeed one of the main pillars of general food law and is the responsibility of the food business operators, who must be able to indicate from whom they have purchased and to whom they are selling. however, the level of detail or specificity of internal traceability chosen by the food business operator determines the final economic loss to be borne by food business operators in the case of recall. in this particular case, what the traceability rule in ireland required was simply the date of production, and not the farm where the meat came from. that was why it was necessary to recall all the meat produced in those two months. if stricter traceability rules were applicable (which would have costed more, of course) only the meat which was identified as originating from that particular farm would have been recalled. so one has to decide: pay more and have better traceability rules or pay less and, in the final analysis, bear the loss. it was mentioned that we have provided aid, as a commission – although the payment of compensation is not my responsibility, but that of commissioner fischer boel – and i must say that what was paid in this case was paid on the same basis both in the republic of ireland and in northern ireland. i have here some figures. the commission has introduced a private storage aid scheme for northern ireland, and under this scheme up to 15 000 tonnes can be stored for a maximum of six months. the budget for that measure is eur 6.9 million. a similar private storage scheme was also adopted in the republic of ireland. under that scheme, up to 30 000 tonnes can be stored for up to six months, with a maximum budget of eur 13.9 million. in the republic of ireland there was also a disposal scheme which was cofinanced by the community and which cost eur 20.6 million. no payments were made by the commission directly to farmers either in the republic of ireland or northern ireland, because there is no legal base for such compensation. summing up, i would say that we have good laws, but in the future we have always to be vigilant. we must make sure that those laws are applicable by the member states, and we need the cooperation of the member states. on the commission side, we have to keep up our controls and make sure that member states comply with our regulations. moreover, once we receive the results of the inquiries and investigations, we can then think about the future. if we believe that there is scope for improving our regulations, we shall have no hesitation in doing so.
the debate is closed.
in writing. the report does not reflect the true extent of the dire conditions of refugees and migrants in reception and detention centres in eu member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. so on the one hand it supports the overall eu and government anti-migration legislation and policy as set out in the migration pact and the dublin asylum system and on the other hand it protests against its inhumane results! it is a challenge, to say the least, for the political forces of the 'euro-path' who voted in the european parliament for the directive which provides, among other things, for the detention of 'illegal' immigrants for 18 months to express their regret in this report for the allegedly inhumane conditions of detention and to ask that they not be detained ! the european parliament's "crocodile tears" cannot exonerate the eu's inhuman and exploitative policy. even the most elementary measures, much less measures to substantially support migrants and refugees and safeguard their rights, can only be implemented in the direction of conflict and rupture with the policy of the eu and its very structure.
in writing. member states, including greece, must do more, building on the european parliament's demands and proposals. the european parliament condemns the attitude of governments towards the impoverished migrants who cross the eu gates every day, risking their lives. countries such as greece, which are on the eu's external borders, must take advantage of the eu's aid possibilities and, on the basis of respect for the rights of refugees and asylum seekers, try to ensure humane reception conditions. even with the unacceptable concessions recently made by the commission and the council on the rights of migrants and the continuing march towards a 'fortress europe', greece falls far short of the community standards for the protection of fundamental rights.
in writing. the european parliament, in its resolution, not only recognises kosovo as a separate state, but also defiantly urges those eu member states which have not yet recognised its independence to do so, in clear violation of international law and unsc resolution 1244. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a kosovo security force (kfr), i.e. a separate army, which will of course operate under the auspices of the nato occupation force kfor. the establishment and development of the eulex police and judicial repression force in kosovo and the reforms it promotes, such as privatisations, etc., are intended to promote eu interests and to accelerate its integration into eu structures. the transformation of kosovo into a eurasian protectorate is thus complete. the first bloody cycle of dismemberment of yugoslavia and the redrawing of new borders is closing, opening new wounds on a balkan and global level with the imperialist law of divide and rule, which will cause new tensions and interventions. the kke voted against the unacceptable resolution, pointing out the need to intensify the anti-imperialist struggle and the conflict with the eu and its policy, and demanding the withdrawal of greek and all euro-eastern occupation troops from kosovo and all the balkans.
the next item is the debate on four motions for resolutions on the situation in sri lanka. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
member of the commission. − madam president, as one of the tokyo co-chairs of the sri lanka peace process, the european commission is closely following developments in sri lanka. we are deeply concerned by the current situation and the tragic humanitarian consequences of the conflict as expressed in the statement issued locally by the co-chairs on 3 february 2009. we look with concern at the difficult situation of thousands of internally displaced persons trapped by fighting in northern sri lanka. both commissioners ferrero-waldner and michel have already communicated publicly their preoccupation about the consequences of the hostilities on the civilian population and have called on both parties, the ltte and the sri lankan authorities, to protect the civil population, as required under international humanitarian law, and to allow the safe and voluntary movement of people away from the combat zone. the commission is concerned about the information it has received concerning the conditions in which internally displaced people are living in the so-called ‘welfare centres’ once they have escaped from the territory controlled by the tamil tigers into government-controlled areas. it is also important that international standards be respected in these temporary camps. un agencies, the red cross and other humanitarian organisations should have full access to these centres in line with international humanitarian law. the commission continues to be alarmed about the human rights situation in sri lanka, against a background of reports of extrajudicial killings, abductions and serious intimidation of the media. it is very important that the government follows up to the most prominent high-profile cases. in her recent meeting with the sri lankan foreign minister, commissioner ferrero-waldner called upon the government of sri lanka to take decisive action to tackle human rights abuses, including action against the perpetrators, and to guarantee press freedom. the commission continues to be convinced that there can be no military solution to sri lanka’s ethnic conflict. an inclusive dialogue is required to agree on a political settlement so that lasting peace and reconciliation can be achieved by addressing the concerns which led to the insurgency in the first place and to provide adequate space for all communities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation of burmese refugees in thailand. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
member of the commission. − madam president, the european commission, as a matter of priority, is following the situation in myanmar and thailand, including the recent incidents where refugees from bangladesh and myanmar were stranded in thailand. thailand hosts approximately 140 000 refugees in nine camps along the border. more than one million myanmar citizens constitute an important part of the workforce in thailand in the agricultural sector, in textiles and in the tourism sector. the rohingya boat people trapped in thailand are part of the multi-faceted, forced or voluntary emigration from myanmar. moreover, thailand has other refugee issues to settle as well, such as the hmong people from laos. the complexity of these issues requires a comprehensive political, humanitarian, economic and social solution. the commission is conducting an intensive debate with the international community and the thai government, in a search for possible solutions. recent political uncertainties in thailand interrupted the dialogue with the government on this issue, but that is temporary. thus, the commission expects that the eu’s initiative vis-à-vis the government will result in a constructive approach. on 29 january 2009, the eu troika, at ambassador level in bangkok, expressed its concerns to the thai authorities. it welcomed the thai government’s intention to investigate the incidents fully, and to share its findings, and urged the thai government to treat boat people arriving in thai waters according to international humanitarian and human rights standards. the commission welcomes the government’s intention to allow the office of the un high commissioner for refugees access to the boat people. the commission encourages the thai government to seek regional cooperation, involving also the un high commissioner for refugees, as the rohingya issue and the other displacement issues mentioned earlier need a comprehensive response. in conclusion, a sustainable solution cannot be the result of short-term security considerations, but must take into account long-term humanitarian, political and socioeconomic concerns. despite the fact that thailand is not party to the 1951 refugee convention, the royal thai government has in the past displayed a measure of humanitarian concern. the commission will continue to remind the thai authorities to strictly adhere to international human rights standards as a prerequisite for any solution.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the refusal of extradition of cesare battisti by brazil. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission is aware of the brazilian justice minister’s recent decision to grant political asylum to an italian citizen, cesare battisti, condemned in absentia to a life sentence by the italian judiciary. we have carefully considered the commission’s role in this situation, especially after italy’s european affairs minister, andrea ronchi, called on vice-president barrot last week for the eu to support italy’s extradition request to the brazilian government. as was also explained to the italian government, there is no scope for an involvement of the commission in this case. the eu treaty is very clear on this matter: the european union’s and commission’s legal powers in the field of cooperation in criminal matters are restricted to the legal space of the eu-27. the european union can facilitate extradition between member states, but has no competences regarding member states’ relations with third countries on criminal cooperation matters. italy’s bilateral relations with brazil on this matter are governed by a bilateral agreement signed in 1989.
the debate is closed. we now move on to the vote.
the next item is voting. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes) - before the vote.
- since there are no 40 mps to raise the issue, we move to a vote.
the issue has a broader political dimension. the responsibility is shared by many: the political groups and the individual members. i can't move the case, mr. onesta. the rules say that i can answer the request of 40 members, but that is not the case at the moment.
in writing. the eu with its resolution on humanitarian aid to gaza, imbued with the logic of equal distances between the israelis who massacre and the palestinians who resist, is trying to cover up its enormous responsibility for the slaughter of the palestinian people by the murderous israeli invasion of the gaza strip which caused over 1300 deaths, the majority of them children, women and the elderly, and more than 5000 wounded. the total destruction of thousands of homes and all social infrastructure, combined with the total economic blockade imposed by israel, has resulted in the palestinian population living in dramatic and inhumane conditions. the avoidance of any reference to and condemnation of israel and the causes of the tragedy of the palestinian people once again confirms the eu's support for israel's criminal activity and its attempt to enhance its role in the heightened inter-imperialist rivalries in the middle east. what the heroic palestinian people need above all is not the benevolence of the imperialists, but the establishment of an independent and sovereign palestinian state with east jerusalem as its capital, in accordance with the un resolutions on the 1967 territories and the unwavering solidarity of the peoples in its struggle.
mr president, under international law 'i have a state' means: i control a specific territorial area over which i establish a government which exercises a defence and foreign policy. i now ask myself about this 'proclaimed state of europe' - the one that is 'proclaimed' by the various parties - and i ask myself: where are its borders, what is its specific territory, and where is its defence when its defence is in the hands of a great general, unfortunately an american, and where is its foreign policy when we have a middle east that is on fire, a hotbed of terrorism from which terrorism is exported, and the refugees and victims of this do not go to alabama, nor to arizona, nor to kentucky, but, unfortunately, they come to greece, they come to cyprus, they come to germany, they come to spain! i would like to say to the commissioner that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter, and i hope that the commission will take the initiative in this matter.
madam president, the international system is in transition and the challenges are great for all of us. the european union and nato must therefore reassess and improve their relations in order to deal with common threats such as terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the increase in international piracy and the new problems arising from climate change. but at the same time i think this is the right moment to reaffirm the role of the un security council as the main guarantor of international peace and security. the need for a review of the agency is becoming more urgent and we are committed to promoting this review so that the un can respond more effectively to its important work. it is also important to stress that all states and international organisations, including nato, should refrain from the threat and use of force in any way inconsistent with the purposes and principles of the un charter. the european union and nato have common interests and their relations should not be competitive. we need a more balanced partnership with better coordination of our actions and a strengthening of our cooperation. however, each side should respect the other's independence in decision-making and ensure mutual understanding when divergent strategic considerations arise. finally, i would like to stress the need to respect the right to the neutrality of states and, on this point, to ask for the relevant call to the republic of cyprus to join the partnership for peace to be withdrawn. this decision is a sovereign right of every state and cyprus is an independent and sovereign state capable of deciding its future.
on behalf of the pse group. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one, but it is not enough to make it clear that the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal. the basis for the european neighbourhood policy is the creation of a climate of confidence in the union's immediate periphery. it is in everyone's interest to promote economic growth and stability in all neighbouring countries, both in the east and in the mediterranean region. however, there is a need to define criteria and specific approaches for each country, according to the political priorities it sets, in relation to human rights, democracy, the rule of law, the rights of minorities. it is also important that community aid reaches all the groups of citizens concerned. the potential of the neighbourhood mechanism must therefore be properly highlighted. in order to achieve these ambitious objectives, the allocation of funds should be balanced between the eastern european and mediterranean countries, as provided for in the 2007-2013 budgetary framework. the barcelona process must be complemented by the european neighbourhood policy and the objectives must be clearly defined. in particular at this time, with the economic crisis now affecting all the countries benefiting from the neighbourhood instrument, it should be clear whether the union is contributing to the crisis through this financial assistance. the european commission should therefore publish assessments on this matter. finally, i would like to mention the black spot synergy: the european union is also committed to the development of the region, and the region must benefit from the european neighbourhood policy. the european union's support for regional cooperation must be directed towards achieving tangible results in certain priority areas such as energy, transport, immigration and the fight against organised crime.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the population is protected, and that the health of the population is protected. we recognise that mental health problems are often encountered and that they have an impact from a human and economic point of view on the individual, family, professional and social life of individuals and their families and on society itself. the evidence speaks for itself: one in four people will experience some form of mental disorder. depression is one of the most common disorders and, by 2020, will be the most common disease in the developed world; the european union has a long tradition of providing a safe and secure environment for all its citizens. in vulnerable and marginalised groups, such as people with disabilities, there is a greater likelihood of mental health problems. in addition, in an ageing europe, the occurrence of neurodegenerative disorders is becoming more and more frequent. we will therefore agree that jointly addressing the challenges of mental health is necessary and concerns us all. it is everyone's responsibility to defend mental health, and ensuring the rights of the mentally ill and their families is an ideological and political position according to which the state supports socially and protects those in need. the first step was the commission's green paper, the next step was the organisation of the european conference 'together for mental health and well-being', which established the european pact on mental health and well-being. in this regard, the report on mental health, which was unanimously adopted by the environment committee, includes a number of recommendations to promote the mental health and well-being of the population, combat the stigma of discrimination and social exclusion, strengthen preventive action and self-help, and provide support and adequate treatment to people with mental health problems, their families and carers. the report stresses the need for the provision of high quality, affordable, accessible, effective and universal mental health services and the development of modern legislation. we call for emphasis to be placed on training all individuals in key positions, we call for ensuring access to appropriate education, training and employment and the creation of a supportive environment with a particular focus on vulnerable groups. we call for an emphasis on the prevention of mental health problems through social interventions, we call on the member states to strengthen the organizations which represent the people with mental health problems themselves. we propose the establishment of a monitoring platform for the implementation of the agreement. we ask the commission to present the conclusions of the thematic conferences. we stress the need to develop appropriate indicators to better assess needs at national and european level. we are also making proposals in the five priority areas of the agreement. in this context, we stress that, in order to prevent depression and suicide, it is necessary to implement multi-sectoral programmes and develop networks, to develop a healthy school climate, to improve working conditions, to take measures to improve the quality of life and, finally, to combat stigma and social exclusion, we stress the need for information and awareness-raising actions. i would therefore like to thank the colleagues who have contributed with their proposals and i would like to send the message that mental health is a supreme social good and that we must all work to promote it.
in writing. experience from the first evaluation of the national action plans shows in practice that the conditions in the eu are still immature for supporting measures to promote energy efficiency. a major weakness of the first esdps, apart from the long delays in their submission by some member states, including greece, is the fact that the ambitious projects are not accompanied by clearly defined practical proposals with added value. this is despite the fact that, according to recent data from the european commission, if the 20% energy saving target were to be achieved, the eu would use around 400 mtoe less primary energy and co2 emissions would be reduced by 860 mt. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption is a very good one. the eu should therefore move without further delay to mainstream energy efficiency in all sectoral policies with clear proposals and support measures, and increase community support in this direction. energy efficiency is a key issue after the adoption of the climate package, and can guarantee energy security, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and boost europe's economy.
madam president, will you allow me to start off off topic by commenting on the unspeakable and sad attack by the eurosceptics behind me on the eurozone and their greek economy; i would simply refer to the statements by mr almunia and mr trichet, who assured this parliament that there is no danger to the cohesion of the euro area, that our collective defenses are functioning and, as far as the greek economy is concerned, i would like to inform mr whittaker that he should get used to the idea that we remain one of the few countries with positive growth and low unemployment, even in the very difficult times we are going through. the european parliament has already said that it will not accept the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament. i now come to the report we are discussing today. i would like to say that this issue should be seen from two perspectives: one when the whole story began, when we were not yet in a crisis, and one at the present juncture in which we find ourselves, when the greatest economic crisis is hitting the real economy in europe deeply. in the first phase, before the crisis, it made sense to concentrate on those very few high-intensity areas, such as catering - because that's where we had an impact - mainly on punctuality and cost of living. but now that the crisis is affecting many - if not all - there is also the logic that this parliament, as the expression of the political sensitivity of society, should make an effort to see issues which were not covered at the beginning, such as the issue of agricultural machinery which my group has the opportunity to propose with amendment no 2. as regards the contradictions we see on the left in this parliament, where some issues, such as the energy aspects of buildings, are good to pursue, but some others, such as agriculture or alcohol, are bad, i think the best judge is the citizen and not the politicians.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on european research infrastructures seeks to promote the implementation of the so-called fifth freedom, that of the free movement within the union of researchers of knowledge and science, and focuses on the criteria of competition, profitability and adaptation of scientific research to the choices and objectives of capital, as they are expressed in the anti-people's lisbon strategy and the eu. 'free access' to each member state's research infrastructure offers the opportunity to directly capitalise on all research activities funded by the member states, to limit control and planning of research to eu mechanisms and monopolies, to promote the logic of excellence by market criteria rather than science, to concentrate research in fewer and fewer research centres-enterprises. the harmonization of intellectual property criteria, the direct link between research and production by means of experts from the enterprises, the operation of the centres on the basis of private financing criteria and their necessary financing by the enterprises and sponsors, subordinate research to the logic of maximizing profits. research must be exclusively state-funded, equally distributed among scientific fields, and oriented towards meeting the needs of the people and improving the lives of the working people.
in writing. the restructuring of the mental health system that is being promoted, instead of serving the interests of the patients, serves those of capital, capitalist restructuring and the commercialization of health. most mental health services, at least those that provide capital gains, are being privatised under the lisbon strategy. the vast majority of the mentally ill who are in psychiatric hospitals and other welfare institutions face wretched and utterly degrading living conditions. the lack of adequate primary and secondary health care is also enormous. the intervention in the field of mental health by ngos, donors, and other 'benefactors' beyond private capital, is both the alibi and the bridge to full privatisation of services. victims in addition to the mentally ill are workers in the private or so-called 'social' infrastructure sector whose labour rights are being undermined, who are on probation and under constant threat of dismissal. we support the abolition of the inhumane, inhumane form of psychiatric care implemented by the urban governments, the creation of an integrated network of mental health services within a single, public, free health-care system, by abolishing any business activity that will respond to the real needs not only of patients, but also of their families and the whole people.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the report on the annual assessment of the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) for 2007. the report calls provocatively for the strengthening of the eu's international political-military presence, that is, its imperialist interventions, throughout the world. it uses problems generated by capitalist development, such as climate change and energy, as new pretexts for its imperialist interventionism and improving its position in global imperialist competition. at the same time, it is seeking closer and deeper cooperation with the us, with the aim of jointly confronting popular reactions and resistance to their imperialist domination. the report takes stock of the eu's imperialist action in various regions of the world, such as the western balkans, where it has already established the police and judicial force eulex in kosovo, the wider middle east, georgia, africa, etc., and calls for it to become even stronger. the eu is becoming more aggressive and dangerous for the peoples, who must fight more decisively and in a coordinated way to overthrow this policy, together with that of the usa and nato, and the whole imperialist order.
in writing. the report on the modernisation of the european security strategy (ess) openly supports the further militarization of the eu, in the direction of strengthening its military capabilities for its imperialist interventions. it welcomes the council's objective of having a permanent eu military force of 60,000 men, with the core of the existing franco-german eurocorps armed forces, equipped with common weapon systems, ready for rapid reaction operations in different parts of the world simultaneously. the pretexts for eu intervention, the so-called 'threats' to its security, are constantly expanding to include, in addition to 'terrorism', areas such as climate change, energy security, cyberspace, regional conflicts, maritime transport and even space. in fact, the eu reserves the 'right' to intervene militarily anywhere it deems necessary for its imperialist interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee on budgets therefore votes against the report. only popular disobedience and a break with the imperialist and anti-people policy of the eu, its very structure as a whole, can open the way to a europe of peace and prosperity for the peoples.
in writing. the report, in a literal black and white presentation, provocatively praises the allegedly 'peaceful' and 'democratic' character and role of both nato and the eu, which are blamed for so many crimes against peoples, and presents them as common custodians of peace and human rights in europe. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. it called on the eu to play a more active role in its transatlantic cooperation with the us and nato, in order to promote the special interests of european capital. in this connection, it calls for greater cooperation in "crisis management", such as in afghanistan and kosovo, better information exchange between the two imperialist organisations, etc. it welcomes the initiative of france to return to the military arm of nato, calls for the simultaneous enlargement of nato and the eu, and demands unacceptably that cyprus join the nato 'partnership for peace'. the committee on budgets voted against the report. it denounces the imperialist, criminal character of nato and the eu, it highlights the urgent necessity of intensifying the popular struggle for our country's exit from the imperialist organizations and associations, the necessity of the struggle for their dissolution and the overthrow of the barbaric imperialist order of things.
mr president, the adverse effects of the world economic crisis are now also apparent in international trade flows. it is sufficient to note that the growth rate of world trade decreased from 8,5% in 2006 to 5,5% in 2007, while in 2008 it was only around 4%. a special mechanism has been established within the world trade organisation to monitor the measures adopted and adopted by wto member states to support struggling sectors of the economy. given the particular importance of external trade for the economy, growth and employment in the european union, the commission is invited, in the context of the implementation of the economic recovery plan, to take immediate leadership on a multilateral trade support initiative. it also calls for such an initiative to be linked to the work of the world bank group and other multilateral development agencies.
madam president, terrorism against workers supported by state repressive mechanisms has become widespread in the workplace. thousands of workers are being laid off. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. in the united kingdom, for example, it is revealed that a private company collects data on the trade union, social and political activities of employees and sells them to companies. in greece, workers' struggles to re-employ dismissed workers are illegal and abusive. the workers are obviously determined to defend their rights by taking as their flag the words of 22-year-old worker nikos nikolopoulos in his open letter to the prosecutor of arioi aikos in greece, where he says among other things: there are some things in this life for me that can't be bought or sold. i prefer my day's wages to be my inalienable right, to claim the wealth i produce and own. in my uncompromising stance to trade or be terrorized i was fired for the second time. i have received direct threats against my life and the lives of my family. this statement really shows the will and the way forward for the workers the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, the commission's proposal for an anti-discrimination directive is opposed by many european citizens, who find it difficult to question the validity of such a proposal which infringes their right to decide within their own state on matters which are not within the competence of the union. i think that we should not raise such issues in the run-up to the european elections. the abolition of symbols, the abolition of the right to decide on life belongs to each state. the european parliament, while abolishing structures through which its members can express themselves freely, such as the inter-party groups, cannot call for the abolition of discrimination.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you very much for making it possible for me to exchange views with parliament at an unusually early stage this year. i am very thankful for the committee on budgetary affairs’ initiative to do this. the commission has already examined very seriously parliament’s guidelines for the 2010 budget, and agrees with most of the points. the commission also appreciates parliament’s examination of the 2010 annual policy strategy – already reflected in your resolution – and shares with you many of the policy priorities identified. unexpected challenges, such as the financial, economic and social recovery, will need to be addressed. however, long-lasting solutions to other issues, such as tackling climate change and achieving a sustainable europe, are essential as well. on this basis, the commission will, on 29 april, adopt its preliminary draft budget for 2010. the commission has already indicated that financial efforts in 2010 will be needed, in particular, for the economic recovery plan. the commission has also noted parliament’s support for more efficient levels of administrative expenditure, and will continue to act in that direction. as for the pilot projects and preparatory actions, i am sure we will be able to build on last year’s excellent cooperation between institutions. the preliminary draft budget will be based on sound estimates of the needs for achieving our shared priorities and taking up the challenges ahead of us. i am confident that a satisfactory agreement on the 2010 budget will, once again, be achieved through good cooperation and collaboration between all the institutions, and especially with parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the budget of the european parliament for the coming year will have three new elements. it will be a year in which this assembly will have a new secretary-general, it will be a year in which it will probably work with the lisbon treaty and it will be a year in which it will work with the two new staff regulations for members and parliamentary assistants. my group has tried to reflect these new developments in the manka report through a number of amendments and we are very pleased to see that the commission has been able to reflect these new dynamics in four main priorities. these four key priorities of my team are: first, the emphasis on the legislative work. parliament is particularly effective when it is exercising its legislative activities, and the administration must show us that it can direct parliament's resources where we make a difference. the second priority is - and here we agree with the socialist group - the full recognition of pluralism and the access of members to interpretation and translation services from and into their mother tongue. the third priority is to be able to assess the progress of the major projects we have already approved, such as europarl tv, the visitor centre, which we would like to have ready before the european elections, but unfortunately is not, and the house of european history. we want these multiannual plans to run smoothly and to be properly evaluated. finally, i believe that we must support in the european parliament every effort which, in times of crisis, shows the european taxpayer that this house is spending rationally what it needs to do its job better.
on behalf of the pse group. the debate on the surján report, for which i have the honour of being the shadow rapporteur, is a political debate of very crucial importance, especially this year. the importance of this debate lies in the fact that it will be the only purely political debate on political priorities, because, as you know, in an election year we will not have the opportunity for another. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it is also a debate in a year in which europe - as everyone has said and as we all know as politicians and as citizens - has entered into a very deep crisis and unfortunately, everything indicates that 2010 will also be a year of crisis, as far as our report and our debate are concerned. the first point i would make is that, although the report under discussion and voted on may be a simple majority report at the moment, it must be a report which represents the whole of the european parliament and not just one political group. it should be a report that expresses the anxiety of citizens and politicians, but it is not - and therein lies a political disagreement between us and the rapporteur and his group - with an emphasis not only on fears and concerns but on prospects for the future. we must make the budget a means of enabling the public to understand that the budget is a political instrument with which we not only respond to fears but also give a political perspective for the future. i think this is very important and our group's efforts, both in the committee and in this debate in the plenary, are to strike a balance between this text and the political dynamics it will evoke, so that it does not present an apocalyptic picture (only fears and worries) but also opens up the prospect of european union. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, but i would like to say that the commission has already taken a decision on the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, priority must be given to the social protection of citizens; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. that is why we are trying to say some things in the report in a different way. finally, this response to the crisis must be one which the citizens understand, one which reflects the priorities: environment, energy, yes, the energy autonomy of the european union, but with all the avenues open, all the possibilities open, so that we can achieve exactly what we want. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european private limited company is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. as is well known, only 8% of european smes carry out crossborder transactions at a time when smes represent about 99% of companies in the union. this shows the shortcomings of the policy pursued to date to encourage intra-community enterprise. it also demonstrates the need to adopt targeted measures to create a single and more favourable regulatory framework at european level. the global economic crisis is now hitting the real economy, the millions of small and mediumsized enterprises throughout europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission proposal for a regulation to the council is moving in the right direction, and that in my view is to reduce as much as possible the administrative burden faced by european smes when they are called upon to meet the locally differentiated administrative requirements for the formation of a company. the flexibility and uniformity of the european private company, the minimum requirement of a crossborder reference element, the simplification of the control of the legality of the statutes and the principle of a capital of one euro are the cornerstones of a strategy which can fundamentally give new impetus to the development of intra-community entrepreneurship. in conclusion, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr lehne, on his efforts to successfully reconcile the divergent views expressed by colleagues in the committee on legal affairs and the various political groups.
the european private company is an attempt to further undermine the social and labour rights of workers in the terms of the bolkestein directive. while you put forward the pretext that this company will benefit small and mediumsized enterprises, you are actually supporting the monopoly business groups. you create a form of company with no capital (even one euro is enough), which can establish a virtual headquarters and move it at any time. the member states with the lowest level of protection of wage and social rights will be used to circumvent and minimise workers' achievements and rights. the regulation, which is directly applicable in the member states, is a natural complement to the bolkestein directive and the well-known anti-union decisions of the ecj in the viking, laval and ruffert cases. it is a consequence and a result of the maastricht treaty and the implementation of the four freedoms. the european private company exposes the political forces that voted for maastricht, that tried to deceive the workers when they voted for the bolkestein directive, by lying that it does not affect the rights of workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. those who support this unpopular policy by sowing winds, may be sure to reap storms.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday, at 12 noon.
i have received four motions for resolutions (see minutes) from four political groups on worker participation in the european private sector. the vote will take place on thursday. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr giusto catania, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the future of a common european asylum policy (2008/2305 (ini)) (a6-0050/2009)
in writing. the european union needs, more than ever, a common european energy policy that promotes energy security and solidarity while supporting sustainable energy options. oil is now the most important source of energy on european territory, mainly because of its extensive use in transport. the eu's dependence on oil imports is expected to reach 95% by 2030. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. oil is a finite resource, its recovery costs have doubled since 2005, its price is constantly fluctuating and it is associated with high co2 emissions. the reorientation of european energy policy is therefore a one-way street. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the solution is to support european and national measures to promote energy efficiency and to invest in projects using renewable energy sources.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i will speak in english in honour of our rapporteur. with this very interesting report, parliament is doing three things. first of all, it is taking realities into consideration. we are speaking now about privacy in the era of the internet and not privacy as an abstract notion. we are taking into account the use of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, which has for some time been applied to problems but also with good use. we are taking into account the charter of fundamental rights, the proposals by the ombudsman and other agencies, and the case-law of the court. we are also taking into account the commission’s real proposal with its possibilities and its drawbacks – and i think there are some drawbacks. the second point – and this is very interesting – is that this report is based on principles and not technicalities; a balance between access to documents and the safeguarding of private life; a generalised access to documents but with very precise rules; a very important distinction between public and private interests and this notion of european public interest which is very important to those of us who love europe; a distinction between legislative and non-legislative procedures which is also interesting; parity between eu transparency and member state transparency. lastly, the most important thing is that this report tries to establish a complete system of transparency – not transparency for every institution separately, but transparency on an interinstitutional basis where all the institutions are taken into account and where the principles of good administration and the charter of fundamental rights are also taken into account. there is also a very common set of classified information, albeit with spy movie names such as eu confidential, eu top secret, but it is important to have a common set of rules in this matter also. what we are trying to achieve here is transparency as a general rule, with exceptions where those exceptions are justified by the protection of other rights, but to have a common set of rules whereby transparency is the most important one but other exceptions are also taken into account.
in writing. the european parliament's amendments to the regulation on access by european citizens to documents of the european institutions - and in particular to documents relating to the legislative process - are a decisive step towards ensuring transparency and participatory democracy in europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is well known that the various 'lobbies' most frequently attempt to influence the legislative process by advancing their own arguments. the european citizens have every right to know about these arguments and interventions. they must be able to judge their substance and also to evaluate the final position of their governments, the european commission and, of course, their meps. the same minimum level of transparency should be provided at national level by the member states to their citizens, as explicitly required by the european parliament's report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up very soon.
in writing. the eu's proposal for a directive on industrial emissions and the ec's amendments reveal, once again, that the real objective of the 'green economy' is not to protect the environment but to secure capital gains. the eu's declarations on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are false and misleading. the directive covers more than 52 000 industrial installations, which account for a large proportion of emissions in the eu member states and are also responsible for the failure to meet the eu's own targets for reducing air pollution. the most important amendments by the committee of the regions considerably restrict the scope of the directive and introduce elements of vagueness and ambiguity which always work in the interests of the bourgeoisie and reinforce the insolvency of capital. at the same time, the industry itself is a key factor in determining the emission levels to be set according to its own needs and priorities, i.e. the profit motive. the solution to environmental protection is part of the anti-monopoly anti-imperialist struggle of the workers against the economic domination of the monopolies, against their political power. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but a party to the treaty of rome.
in writing. when food production is driven by profit rather than the satisfaction of people's needs, and food production and marketing is concentrated in fewer and fewer hands and determined by multinational food companies and cartels (choices that characterize eu policy and member state governments), then food can be neither cheap nor of high quality. the alleged shift towards quality food is not aimed at increasing farm incomes or meeting the needs of the people. it aims at increasing competitiveness and profits for multinationals, at greater exploitation of agricultural potential, at even greater concentration of land and control of production. the introduction and cultivation of mutants and the successive food scandals show that the quality and safety of food in the eu is subordinated to the big interests. the qualitative classification of foodstuffs is a class-based food differentiation which corresponds to the logic of the market. first-class food for the high-income and second-class food for the working-class family. the small and medium-sized farmers have every interest in opposing the cap and the eu, in selling themselves to big capital, in joining the kke and pasy, the workers and the self-employed, in the social alliance to overthrow the domination and power of the monopolies.
mr president, after five years of discussions and consultations with the council, the infamous maritime package (six directives and one regulation) has been stripped of all positive content concerning the safety of human life at sea and the protection of the environment, that is to say, it has been reduced to nothing. the council, which is faithful to the anti-people policy of the european union and to the interests of capital, fully implements the demands of shipowners and monopoly groups, who oppose any measure that may affect their profitability in the slightest. the commission has therefore succeeded in obviating all positive provisions aimed at monitoring the safety of ships, or in referring them to the courts, through a lengthy interim procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the shipping industry is not compromised. the claims made by the european union since 1986 in the context of the common maritime policy that the human factor, the improvement of working conditions and the training of seafarers will be considered in the future are misleading and false, since they have been getting worse over the years. for these reasons, the communist party of greece will vote against the so-called shipping package as a whole.
member of the commission. − we know that it is very important to have measures to help citizens and governments go for energy efficiency. we now have some studies on the potential of tax incentives for energy and environmental purposes, and the commission is preparing a proposal to amend the vat directive to allow reduced rates of vat to apply to certain environmentally-friendly goods and services. as set out in the economic recovery plan, the commission may propose reduced vat rates for green products and services aimed at improving the energy efficiency of buildings in particular. it should be pointed out, however, that the commission proposal of july 2008 already provides an option for member states to apply these reduced vat rates on services involving the renovation, repair, alteration and maintenance of housing, places of worship and of cultural heritage, and historical monuments. this includes work aimed at increasing the energy savings and efficiency of the buildings concerned. the ecofin today came to a compromise. it is too early to say exactly what we are going to do in detail with the ecofin proposals, but the commission is going to study the proposals that were made today.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. that is a very interesting idea proposed by the member. this idea, together with the other ideas we have on energy efficiency in building or renovating houses, will of course be analysed by the commission. i can also point out that the commission will be restructuring the structural funds so that the structural funds can also invest in these energy-efficient houses.
member of the commission. − under normal circumstances, the stability and growth pact presumes there will be rapid correction of the excessive deficit and this correction should be carried out the year after such an excessive deficit has been identified. however, the reformed stability and growth pact also allows for longer deadlines in the case of special circumstances – in accordance with article 34 of council regulation (ec) no 1467/97. the pact does not provide an explicit definition of these special circumstances. however, when preparing a report under article 143 of the treaty triggered by the existence or the planned excessive deficit, the commission is required by the treaty to take into account what are known as ‘relevant factors’. in this report, the commission shall reflect developments in the medium-term economic position, in particular potential growth, prevailing cyclical conditions, the implementation of policies in the context of the lisbon agenda and policies to foster research and development and innovation. it shall also reflect developments in the medium-term budgetary position, in particular fiscal consolidation efforts in good times, the level of public debt and sustainability issues, external financing needs, public investment, and the overall quality of public finances. it shall also take into consideration any other factors which, in the opinion of the member state concerned, are relevant in order to comprehensively assess in qualitative terms the excess over the reference value and which the member state has, of course, put forward to the commission and to the council. the provisions of the relevant factors to be considered indicate that determining the incidence of special circumstances should be based on an overall assessment of such factors. on 18 february, the commission adopted its recommendations for council opinions on the latest updates of the stability and convergence programmes for 17 member states. at the same time, and taking into account its assessment of these programmes, the commission adopted reports for ireland, greece, spain, france, latvia and malta. the ecofin adopted its opinion on these reports this morning. the commission will propose recommendations to the council to put an end to situations where an excessive deficit exists. these recommendations will include deadlines which will have been decided according to the stability and growth pact, i.e. taking into consideration the existence of special circumstances, where appropriate.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her very detailed reply. i must say, however, that i was a little surprised because in your important remarks you did not mention the concept of timetable, that is to say, whether the commission will propose specific timetables on a case-by-case basis and, secondly, whether the commission can link the phases of the timetables in its proposal to the reduction of the rate of over 3%.
madam president, the european commission's efforts to help mothers to participate actively in the labour market by promoting the implementation of the decisions taken in barcelona in 2002 are noteworthy. i would remind the commissioner, however, that it is not a matter of historical tradition but of democracy to have free choice, especially when there is economic pressure. forcing the mother to accept this solution is not a good solution; instead, the outcome should come after the parents are convinced that this is the ideal solution for their child. and this is done, as the previous speaker said, with accompanying and advisory services from the beginning of the creation of life. this will help parents to find the best solution and the time-frame for custody measures, immediately after birth, later, after three years. but we must be careful about supply, because quality comes with cost. in most countries today, quality comes at a high cost. it involves private institutions. in contrast, public institutions that are cheaper or free rarely free have low costs but low quality. it is therefore necessary to pay attention to the training of the staff of these institutions. and we need to build up the confidence of the parents so that they'll participate. i, when i had the first of my nine children in paris, was convinced of the quality and the offer of these institutions, which i could not give as a mother. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant the right to vote to women who are not members of the family of a worker. we must also remember the parliament's report on the safeguarding of students' children, because we are talking about work, but work starts with professional qualifications. so if we do not have childcare during the vocational training period, how will women participate in the labour market afterwards?
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is disturbing evidence that a relatively new trend is emerging in a number of member states. parents leave their home country for work in another member state - these are so-called 'mobile workers' - and leave their children at home in the care of a relative. in theory, such measures are only temporary. however, they often seem to become more permanent. whether the arrangements for children left at home are formal or informal depends on the length of time the parents intend to work abroad. after a while, however, some of these children often end up in institutions because relatives are no longer able to cope with the situation for economic, relationship, or other practical reasons. in member states with high emigration rates, this phenomenon is clearly not uncommon. it's beginning to be documented and has already gained media attention. the commission has commissioned a number of studies to help gather evidence and find solutions, although these can only be implemented at national level. at present, there are not enough hard data to know the nature, structure and main types of this phenomenon, although, as i said, the evidence is already quite disturbing. the fight against poverty and social exclusion of children is a priority under the open method of social coordination. member states must step up preventive measures and target the most vulnerable families. in particular, this means supporting family strengthening projects and parental assistance to families in difficulty to face the danger of children being prematurely separated from their parents. another aspect to be addressed is the fact that this phenomenon is often perceived as a negative consequence of worker mobility. the commission, in cooperation with the eures network, will focus on how to help those most affected by this particular problem of children left at home (mobile workers) and provide jobseekers and their families with information on living and working conditions in eu countries. such an approach could help to mitigate the negative consequences of this phenomenon, which is rightly the subject of our debate today.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, my group has been actively involved in the drafting of this resolution and has improved the text so that the hypocrisy of exploiting workers from non-community countries is no longer so much a cover. we know that parents of children from community countries in any other country, whether they work or not, receive an allowance for their children. we know that countries that have bilateral relations can have the family bond. so why is this phenomenon occurring, which the commissioner said could not be measured? and yet we have films, we have documentaries, that have been shown by tv stations all over the world, and from romania and from ukraine and from other countries! and here in parliament, we have seen the situation. so it's hypocritical to say that we don't have evidence, it's hypocritical to say that there is no family and that's why there are abandoned children. there is a family, but there are no proper bilateral relationships and agreements to cover the parents and not to abandon their children. and there is no help from the european union to these countries to build the infrastructure to help all the children who have been in this situation to be able to recover, without having the same traumas for their whole lives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if one part of the body hurts, the whole body hurts. if some of our fellow men, and even children, are suffering in our neighbouring countries, we will later see them coming here in other more threatening ways and then we will put them in our prisons.
mr president, the draft regulation on the conservation of bluefin tuna in the atlantic and mediterranean, which we are discussing tonight as a matter of urgency, provides for a reduction in the level of quotas until 2011, restrictions on fishing in certain areas and for certain periods, a new minimum size, restrictive measures for sport and recreational fishing, a reduction in fishing capacity and the capacity of fattening units, strengthened control measures and the implementation of the iccat joint international inspection programme, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the plan. i agree with the spirit of the regulation, as overfishing of tuna has brought stocks to very dangerous levels. it should be remembered that in the last two years the commission has hastily imposed a ban on tuna fishing before the end of the fishing season, because overfishing by some member states was reported to be up to 200%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not caught in the same way as the tuna fishermen. but two things trouble me about the new regulation: the first is the tight timeframe given to member states to adjust their fishing effort. the iccat recommendation called for 2010 as the year of implementation, while the regulation calls for 2009 - this year, now! it is a very short time and i fear there will be problems. the second is the increased cost of the enhanced inspection programme, which is borne by the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, these three very extremely important reports have been drafted by socialist rapporteurs. this of course is not by chance. the thrust of these reports, the amendments that will be presented by the socialist members to improve them and also i think today’s debate show very clearly that there are distinctive policies: distinctive right-wing and socialist policies towards the crisis. the right-wing policy is pretty simple: the crisis is a bad thing but we need to be patient, it will pass; we need to take some technical measures and things will calm down by themselves and we must express our sympathy to the people who will be hit. the socialist position is much more complex. we say that we must attack the roots of the problem, the roots of the crisis, that we must radically change the economic paradigm, that we must change and that we must curb all the speculation that has led us to this financial crisis. this has not been a neutral crisis but a crisis inflicted by specific policies, mostly by right-wing governments.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. in particular, when they relate to regional and cohesion policy, they are certainly of interest to the majority of citizens and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. initiatives to simplify the regulations of the european regional development fund and the other structural funds, measures such as the promotion of investments using renewable energy sources in housing, simplification of regulations, the payment of advances and eligible costs and flat-rate amounts are certain to help to preserve jobs and the survival of small and medium-sized enterprises in an uncertain economic environment. the european parliament is looking forward to further initiatives and will be actively involved in shaping them. the need for measures with a direct impact on the economic support of citizens remains.
i have received five motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday 11 march. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
in writing. the resolutions of the political forces of capital conceal the causes and character of the capitalist crisis. they are putting the burden of the crisis on the workers who paid for the capitalist surpluses and are now being asked to pay for the crisis to save and increase capitalist profits. the resolution calls on the eu to deepen the anti-worker lisbon strategy, to implement the stability pact and the economic recovery plan, and to move towards full liberalisation of the internal market. they propose measures to support monopoly groups, by providing ample cash out of the pockets of workers, reducing the taxation of capital, and increasing the financing of large monopoly enterprises. they are promoting the acceleration of capitalist restructuring, with the 'well-being' strategy and the directive on the organisation of working time at its centre, i.e. an increase in working time to 13 hours a day and 78 hours a week, the division of working time into active and unpaid inactive hours. the development of the 'green economy', the liberalisation of research and energy and innovation are opening up new avenues for profitable investment by capital at the expense of workers and the masses. the informal summit of 1 march confirmed the sharpening of the inter-imperialist contradictions and the united front of the monopolies against the peoples.
in writing. the plan to revive the european economy puts the burden of the capitalist crisis on the backs of the working people, promotes the general aspirations of the eu, protects the profits, the collective interests of the bourgeoisie. the full-scale attack on social security and labour rights, the income of the working class family and its standard of living is intended to ensure that the eu monopolies will be in a 'benign position' when the economy recovers, in relation to international competition. the eu and governments are trying to win popular support, using the 'carrot and stick' method, in order to impose with the least resistance the capitalist restructuring as defined by the lisbon strategy: employment and unemployment by rotation, increase in pension thresholds, drastic reduction of wages, pensions and social benefits. the decisions of the summits and the financing of the measures by the member states themselves alone make it clear that inter-imperialist competition is intensifying, leading to a policy of 'whoever saves himself'. there is one option for the workers: resistance - disobedience - counterattack with the kke, condemnation of the policy of the euro-road and the forces that support it! reorganization of the people's movement and struggle for the people's power and the people's economy!
madam president, greece, as the oldest member of the region, both in the european union and in nato, has been and continues to be a pioneer in the efforts to integrate all the balkan countries into euro-atlantic structures, as it firmly believes that the development of the countries of the region is for the benefit of all. greece has invested over a billion dollars in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and has created 20,000 jobs, unprecedented amounts of foreign investment for the local economy. for our country, the name issue is not just a problem with historical, psychological or emotional dimensions. it is a political issue of substance, which concerns all greek citizens and the european values of good neighbourliness and regional cooperation. i would remind you that my country agreed to grant the former yugoslav republic of macedonia the status of candidate country for accession to the european union by com (2007) 0663 with the explicit commitment to find a mutually acceptable solution through negotiations on the name issue under the auspices of the un, which will contribute to regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, because without a solution there is no friendship and without friendship there are no alliances and partnerships. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. unfortunately, however, in addition to this clear position, there are additional wording in paragraphs 12 and 13 which undermines efforts to resolve the problem and encourages intolerance and are therefore totally unacceptable, while amendments nos 1 and 2 restore paragraphs 12 and 13 to the correct wording. the report contains a number of elements which will help the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to continue its efforts on the european road.
madam president, the enlargement policy is the most successful expression of the union's foreign policy. in the case of turkey, the message must be clear: the aim is integration, but it must be achieved by fulfilling its obligations, by consolidating democracy, respecting human rights and maintaining good neighbourly relations. turkey is at a critical juncture, both internally and in the redefinition of its geostrategic role. in this context, continuation of reforms and a firm european orientation are absolutely necessary. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. in the case of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the commission has clearly stated that the country does not fulfil the basic conditions for the opening of negotiations, as it has significant democratic deficits. as regards the name dispute, although greece has shown a spirit of cooperation and realism, the government of skopje has not responded. unfortunately, however, in the european parliament's report before us today, my country is presented as the sole reason for the delay in the opening of negotiations. this is unfair to greece and does not help to find a solution to a problem which has been plaguing both countries for over 15 years.
madam president, i agree with and recognize turkey's european perspective, but if this perspective is to be successful, turkey must: first, respect the rights of minorities in practice and avoid policies such as those it applies, for example, in imbros and tenedos; secondly, to improve its relations with greece, a member state which supports its european perspective, by, for example, removing the casus belli and putting an end once and for all to the violations in the aegean; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this progress is marked on the one hand by the withdrawal of the turkish occupation troops and on the other by a more constructive attitude in all aspects to resolving the issue. i want to remind you that i belong to the generation that was raised with the slogan "our border is in kerch".
madam president, yesterday i tabled an oral question to the commission and i received a memo from the parliamentary secretariat saying that the commissioner would answer my question this afternoon. i declare that my name is panayotopoulos and that i have tabled a question on paragraph 6 of the framework for negotiations with turkey.
in writing. ten years after the dirty war launched by the us-nato-eu against yugoslavia, the perpetrators of the crimes against its peoples are blaming the thousands of murdered people, including women and children, for the enormous destruction they caused in the balkans. the report praises the hague tribunal which they set up to try their victims and acquit the crimes of the us-european imperialists. a court of fabricated charges, mock trials, that led to the assassination of former yugoslav president slobodan milosevic. with incredible audacity they are asking for the extension of his term of office to manufacture new culprits and to apply terrorist pressure on the peoples of yugoslavia, asking them to sign a declaration of repentance in defence of their homeland and to submit to their european murderers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the kke shall not take part in the vote. the european parliament has been a party to the european parliament's legalization of imperialist crimes, even by its presence. it is also a small tribute to those who paid with their blood for the us-nato-eu imperialist barbarity. the real people's courts will be set up and the real guilty and murderers of the usa-nato and eu, the centre-right and centre-left governments, will be tried and convicted for their crimes.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the green paper on the european health workforce reveals the plans of capital and the european union to privatise and commercialise health care, with painful consequences for working-class families and health workers. these changes are part of the wider anti-people upheavals in social security and social services, which are being promoted in all the countries of the european union with the active support and complicity of centre-right and centre-left forces, which treat health as a commodity, a source of profit for capital, and patients and their families as customers. the main objective is to expand the business of capital and to build a system where public health services will operate on private criteria in competition with the private sector. the first victims of this commodified health system are the health workers themselves. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. the continuous breach of working time limits is more the rule than the exception. their remuneration, at least in the public sector, is limited, as is their efficiency, by the choices of private insurance companies. the central issue in the green paper is the mobility of workers, the application of the rules of the bolkestein directive in the field of health. health is a social good and not a commodity. the workers in this company provide a social service and, no, they are not means of making a profit! only the workers' struggle can ensure exclusively public, free and high quality health services, away from any private business activity.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, i am very pleased that we are discussing and voting today on the report on the upgrading of our relations with brazil. the establishment of a strategic relationship between the european union and this country is mutually beneficial, first because of the country's changing global position as a leading power in the developing world, and also because brazil plays a vital role in bridging differences on issues of global concern. the european union has had a very wide range of relations with brazil in recent years, so a coordinated coherent framework for relations between the two sides is necessary. the strengthening of relations is based on historical, cultural and economic links, as well as on shared values of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, concern for climate change and sustainable development, disarmament, energy and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. the strategic partnership should have a comprehensive scope and a gradual nature. brazil is also a key country in the negotiations with mercosur. it should therefore, through the partnership, commit itself to strengthening european union-mercosur relations and address issues of common interest. in this context, the strategic relationship will be the instrument for deepening interregional economic and trade relations. given its enhanced political role in the region and its active participation in the un, i believe that brazil can play a significant role in preventing and resolving regional conflicts in latin america, thus contributing to the consolidation of peace in the region. in view of the global economic crisis, the european union and brazil must cooperate at the world trade organisation level in order to bring the doha development agenda negotiations to a successful conclusion. brazil is better able to deal with the new challenges of the global economy, as regulatory issues play an important role in ensuring fair competition and sustainable development. as regards financial system reform, its participation in international fora can contribute to re-examining the role of international organisations in the supervision and regulation of financial markets. like other emerging powers, brazil is increasingly active in international efforts to address global poverty and inequality through cooperative programs aimed at long-term sustainable development. in terms of environmental protection, brazil is the country with the largest area of vital tropical forests. the union and brazil should actively cooperate at international level to protect them and to address climate change and biodiversity loss. political commitments are necessary to implement the un convention on biological diversity. action must also be taken to protect and manage water resources. it should be noted that brazil is the first country to develop significant biofuel production, thus ensuring tangible results in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the exchange of experience and cooperation in this field can therefore be very useful for the union and, conversely, renewable energy sources and energy saving action will be very useful for brazil. migration is a key issue on the european political agenda. the strategic partnership, in the light of the lima declaration, should therefore promote a broad migration dialogue covering legal migration, illegal migration and the protection of the human rights of migrants. the european parliament also welcomed the start of a dialogue on visa exemption for both sides, which would contribute to the free movement of persons.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i would like to thank commissioner ferrero-waldner and all the other members for their comments on the two reports we are discussing today, and i would agree with mr salafranca that latin america is of great interest and importance to the european union and that we must send clear messages of cooperation through these reports, especially in the critical period we are going through. we need a comprehensive framework that can cover all the issues and can provide clear answers. i would like to mention just a few points about what was said. first of all, i would like to stress that the upgraded relationship is in no way intended to degrade mercosur. we believe, on the contrary, that the strategic partnership with brazil, perhaps the largest and most important country in latin america, will be able to give a new impetus to mercosur. the budgetary framework within which the relationship with brazil will be determined should also be clear. i would add that brazil is increasingly involved in cooperation with the portuguese-speaking countries of the south and africa respectively, and therefore could actively cooperate in this area with the european union. the balance between biofuels and food security, which is particularly critical at this time, must also be maintained. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i think that mr lula's government has made important steps in this direction. there's still a lot to do, but i think the road's been cleared. finally, i would like to say that we should seriously consider the possibility of setting up a joint parliamentary committee between the european union and brazil, because it is the only bric country with which we have upgraded relations, but without these being institutionalized.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, in paragraph 12 there was amendment no 1 by mr swoboda, which was put to the vote by roll-call, and as we know mr swoboda withdrew amendment no 1 today. i therefore ask that the vote be taken by roll call on the second part of paragraph 12.
in writing. the report on a european partnership for researchers seeks to strengthen the eu's competitiveness vis-à-vis other imperialist centres, to limit the 'leakage' of research staff and to attract researchers from developing countries. it promotes the liberalisation of the movement of researchers between states, the public and private sectors, enterprises, research centres and universities, the deeper integration of the private and public sectors in the field of research, the complete subordination of science to the temporary technological needs of the market and the orientation of researchers towards applied research, recognising as a standard qualification the researcher's experience in enterprises. the introduction of 'research cards' for the selection of researchers from a research institute or university in another member state and the mobility of researchers and business executives make it easier for capital to select the 'cream' of researchers and staff its businesses on terms more favourable to its profitability (flexible employment relationships, unpaid work, exemption from social security contributions). these arrangements also include doctoral students, who carry out a large part of the research activity. we are opposed to the report because researchers must work in stable employment relationships, in institutions which do not compete for 'leadership' but cooperate for the development of science and serve the contemporary needs of the people and not the plutocracy and the profits of capital.
in writing. we consider it unacceptable that the ec is discussing and proposing an agreement with israel on the creation of an eu-israel joint aviation area, while the massacre of the palestinian people by the murderous war launched against them by the israeli government in the gaza strip is still fresh. the proposal for such an agreement confirms the criminal responsibility of the eu, which by its hypocritical attitude of equal distance is in fact rewarding and supporting israel and the new war it has unleashed, causing a huge humanitarian disaster to the palestinian people, the death of more than 1300 palestinians, the vast majority of whom are civilians, children and women, the injury of more than 5000 people, the total destruction of gaza's political infrastructure, including schools and un facilities. it also supports israel's intention to demolish dozens of homes in east jerusalem, uprooting more than 1,000 palestinians in yet another attempt to displace the palestinian population from jerusalem and further hampering the prospects for a solution in the middle east. actions like this are all in support of his imperialist policy in the region, embedded in the eu-usa-nato imperialist plans in the wider middle east. the peoples, however, are strengthening their solidarity and their struggle alongside the palestinian people for an independent, territorially united palestinian state in the 1967 territories, with east jerusalem as its capital.
in writing. the kke votes against the resolution on fyrom. he has repeatedly opposed the accession of fyrom and other countries to the eu for the same reasons as he opposes the accession of greece. the resolution calls for the acceleration of the accession of fyrom to the eu so that it can be transformed from an american protectorate into a euro-american protectorate and be quickly annexed to the eu. the european parliament, the council and the commission are also urged to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a military coup in the balkans. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has voted against all the reports on the subject, because it considers that the name issue is part of the wider imperialist interventions in the balkans and the rivalries between the imperialist powers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no macedonian ethnic minority. the word macedonia has a geographical designation. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the kke supports the united anti-imperialist struggle of the balkan peoples, the conflict with the us-nato-eu policy.
yesterday's minutes have been distributed. are there any comments on these?
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in guinea-bissau. the minutes i 'm not .
member of the commission. − madam president, let me first of all, on behalf of the european commission, say that we deeply regret the assassination of his excellency the president of the republic of guinea-bissau, joão bernardo vieira. we condemn this assassination in the strongest possible terms and also the attacks that resulted in the deaths of the chief of staff of the armed forces, general batista tagme na waie and other soldiers. i would like also to send condolences to their families. the presence of drug-dealers and so much crime are more than worrying today. under the eighth edf and other instruments, but in addition by contributing to eur 2 million to the un odc, the commission has signed up to a very ambitious plan in the counter narcotics field. we think this is really very important, as has been shown by what has happened. we urgently call for calm and restraint, and urge the national authorities of guinea-bissau to fully investigate these events and bring to justice those responsible. there should be no impunity. unfortunately, these violent acts follow the successful legislative elections, which paved the way for enhanced eu and international support for the country’s peace-building efforts. these attacks also come at a time of increased international engagement, intended to build a democratic and a stable guinea-bissau. under these extremely difficult circumstances, the commission remains fully committed to continuing its strong support to the national authorities, aiming to bring back stability but also to sustain development. i am thinking of education, the poorest of the poor, the necessity for basic needs and basic services, and also of economic growth in the country. we are now starting to deploy the wide range of instruments at our disposal, thus aiming to help guinea-bissau achieve sustainable peace and, hopefully, consolidate its democratic process. an ambitious country strategy paper for an amount of eur 100 million, covering the period 2008-2013, was approved last year. this will focus on security sector reform – including the fight against drugs that i mentioned earlier – and the enhancement of the national sovereign institutions. last year the council also decided to establish an eu mission supporting security sector reform in the framework of the european security and defence policy. the forthcoming presidential elections – now expected 60 days after the nomination of the new president – will probably take place even before the summer break. taking into account this extremely tight schedule, the feasibility of the deployment of the electoral observation mission is being carefully considered by the commission. nevertheless, the provision of post-electoral assistance to support the required reforms to the electoral framework, following the recommendations formulated by the eu-un 2008, and the support given to observation of the forthcoming elections by regional organisations remain, among other things, our key priorities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in the philippines. i 'm not .
member of the commission. − madam president, the philippines, as many honourable members have just said, still faces very strong challenges: on the one hand, the question of minorities in mindanao, and on the other hand, many extrajudicial killings. we are well aware of that. however, the philippines has made considerable progress in its international obligations to ensure and to protect human rights, ratifying 12 international human rights treaties and abolishing the death penalty, largely thanks to the advocacy role played by the european parliament, the commission and the member states. so there is a mixed picture, but we have to see both the positive and the negative sides. but the human rights situation remains very difficult and we use the opportunity of our regular, senior official meeting to raise these issues. human rights warrant particular attention for our relationship with the philippines, also in the run-up to the presidential elections in 2010, and we are already going in this direction. i would, therefore, like to focus on the long-standing issue, as i have already said, of the extrajudicial killings. these assassinations of journalists of human rights and land rights activists have certainly decreased significantly in number in the past two years. but, from time to time, they have flared up and there has been a flare-up very recently. most unsettling is that the majority of the perpetrators remain at large. it has become a very sensitive political issue and it has eroded confidence in the government. we are about to launch an ‘eu-philippines justice assistance mission’ under the instrument for stability. what we have in mind is capacity-building for the philippine judicial authorities, including police and military personnel, to help them investigate cases of extrajudicial killings and to prosecute those guilty of murder. we have also ongoing projects at local level to promote respect for human rights, funded by the eu instrument for democracy and human rights. these include monitoring the implementation of international commitments in the field of human rights, actions to support the ratification of the rome statute of the icc and electorate education. we are currently in the process of reviewing our cooperation with all our partner countries in the framework of the mid-term review and there are good reasons to step up our efforts in the area of good governance, justice and the rule of law in the philippines. as far as the peace process in mindanao is concerned, the government appears ready to re-launch talks and we encourage an early resumption of negotiations between the parties and, of course, every discreet mediation that might be there. meanwhile, the civilian population has once again borne the brunt of the long-lasting conflict, and echo has supplied significant assistance. finally, current priorities of our relationship with the philippines include the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) negotiations, which started last month in manila. in this framework too, we are looking for common ground on human rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the expulsion of non-governmental organizations from darfur. the minutes i 'm not .
member of the commission. − madam president, the european commission is deeply concerned – like you – by the sudanese decision to expel 13 international, as well as to suspend three national, humanitarian ngos and two national human rights ngos, following the icc indictment of president bashir. six of these international ngos operate with ec humanitarian funding amounting to a total of eur 10 million. those organisations provide essential services to millions of sudanese in darfur and in other areas of sudan. the suspension of their activities is, therefore, not only highly regrettable but will also seriously affect the humanitarian situation, as many of you have said. in a statement, commissioner michel has already expressed our deepest concern and urged ‘the government of sudan to reconsider the value of their decision and to urgently restore these ngos to their full operational status’. if the full impact of the sudanese decision is still being assessed, it is clear that the lives of hundreds of thousands of people might be at risk in darfur. appropriate measures need to be taken urgently, as the approaching rainy season and the yearly hunger gap will soon exacerbate the humanitarian vulnerability of the 4.7 million people directly affected by the conflict. we know that the government is not going to reverse its decision under further international pressure calling into question its decision to expel the ngos in question. if we cannot persuade the government to reverse the expulsion orders, we have to engage the sudanese authorities in order to put in place the appropriate delivery mechanisms. in this respect, we must certainly hold the sudanese government fully accountable for its assurances that it takes full responsibility for delivering humanitarian aid. it is also our duty to take the necessary contingency measures with respect to our assistance. sudan is the commission’s single largest humanitarian operation: eur 110 million in 2009. the commission, together with other donors, like the united nations and the ngos and other humanitarian partners, is currently looking into how best to redesign the humanitarian response in order to avoid dramatic consequences. it is not an easy task, as the expelled ngos were among those very capable of working in such difficult and remote areas. these contingency measures will clearly require some cooperation and agreement with the sudanese authorities. in this respect, it is essential to insist on strict separation between the humanitarian activities and the political agenda. on the political front, we will have to maintain maximum diplomatic pressure on the sudanese authorities and the rebel movements alike to reach peace in darfur. we will also have to press for the full implementation of the north-south comprehensive peace agreement. the stakes are very high, and it is our responsibility not to let sudan be engulfed in a nightmare scenario of country-wide instability. the eu as a whole will respect the icc’s guidelines and maintain only essential contacts with sudanese president bashir. however – and here it is crucial that, as i said before, we maintain dialogue with khartoum – we should ensure that the government’s reaction to the icc indictment is as restrained as possible. if we cut off all relations, the hardliners among the government may retaliate against civilians, humanitarian workers and unmis personnel. the recent decision to expel several ngos is, we think, the first step, which could be followed by many more situations like the present one, and we have to monitor that carefully. a worst-case scenario of a halt in the implementation of the cpa and an attempt by the government to find a military solution to the darfur crisis must be avoided. with regard to the african union, i can just tell you that we are maintaining contact with them, but i cannot say any more at this stage.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes)
madame roure, it is the word "yesterday". you said "yesterday".
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
mr president, these days are numbered: - 10 years since the dirty war launched by nato and the governments of the european union - centre-left and centre-right - against the people of yugoslavia, - 6 years since the criminal war and the occupation of iraq by the united states and its willing allies, a war which has cost the lives of some 1.5 million iraqis, - 60 years since the creation of nato, the imperialist war machine, a threat to peace throughout the world which is preparing to celebrate its 60th anniversary with a summit in strasbourg. ten years ago, on 23 and 24 april 1999, the leaders of nato's member countries signed in washington its 50th anniversary declaration and adopted its new doctrine. the new nato strategy was thus established and is an official overturning of basic rules of international law. followed by a slew of other criminal interventions in afghanistan, iraq, iran, the middle east. the french authorities, in the run-up to the nato summit, have turned the centre of strasbourg into a no-go zone and, by activating the schengen treaty option, are blocking the entry of peaceful protesters into france by mobilizing large numbers of army and police to deal with the protesters. these measures, which brutally violate basic democratic rights, show the fear of the imperialists and nato towards the peoples. on the celebrations and 'fiestas' for the 60 years of the imperialist criminal action of nato, the peoples need to respond by strengthening the pro-peace anti-imperialist movement, by strengthening the popular demand to dissolve nato ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, after the revisions of 2003 to 2008, the common agricultural policy has acquired a strong social dimension in addition to agricultural and economic policy, and i think that is right. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food agency, and the establishment of a european food agency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not simply a one-off measure, but that it is also a one-off measure, and that it is not a one-off measure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to ask the european union to increase its budget because that is how we will have a future in our europe. but if we want a healthy agriculture, we must also increase the funds for the common agricultural policy.
mr president, it is one year since the decision of the group on the renewal of the rules of procedure of the european parliament made it difficult for the inter-parliamentary groups to function by deciding to operate only on thursday afternoons. so it actually dissolved these cross-party groups that were a platform for presenting ideas, mostly on issues that are not primarily european policies, such as the family issue. i am the chairman of the inter-parliamentary group on the family and child protection and i must convey to you the deep regret of the family organisations, of civil society, of ordinary european citizens, that they cannot express themselves through this inter-parliamentary group. the group for the renewal of the rules of procedure did not tell us whether it had made an assessment of the inter-parliamentary groups and did not give us a solution for the future. how can they be replaced?
mr president, the successful conclusion of the negotiations and the conclusion of the economic partnership agreements between the union and the acp states is a major challenge for european trade and development policy. the conclusion of agreements compatible with the union's international obligations is desirable, since the unilateral preferential treatment accorded by the european union to acp countries in relation to other developing countries was, as is well known, found to be incompatible with wto law. but beyond the legal issue, the challenge is to reach agreements that will promote the development of these countries by strengthening their trade capacity, diversifying their economic base and regional integration. the new trade regime governing relations between the european union and the acp countries should ensure the integration of these countries into the international trading system, into the world economy, an economy which is experiencing an unprecedented crisis, and this crisis affects both developed and developing countries, as well as emerging economies. we all agree that the opening up of the acp countries to the union must be asymmetrical, gradual, with sufficient flexibility in terms of protecting sensitive sectors and effective safeguard clauses. as we know, the aim of the negotiations is to cover, in addition to access to the market for goods, areas such as services, investment, the protection of intellectual property and, more generally, the promotion of work on trade issues. we therefore support the extension of the scope of the agreements to the extent that this is considered to be beneficial for the acp countries themselves. it is also essential to include development provisions in economic partnership agreements and to provide adequate aid for trade.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, first of all i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs on the committee on agriculture and the four committees of the european commission with which we have cooperated substantially in the preparation of this report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk market is not affected by the introduction of the new milk quota. for the milk and yogurt or the bottle and the cheese? i ask you this because in recent years consumers have been given the impression that they are buying food, which is now more important to the industry which processes, markets and distributes it, rather than the agricultural product itself, the raw material. some 15 years ago, agricultural products accounted for about 50% of the final value of the product for consumption, whereas today they account for no more than 20%. farmers, farmers and livestock farmers are now 'anonymous' personalities for consumers. their bargaining power, not only in terms of shaping the final price but also in maintaining the quality and nutritional components in the final product, is falling short of the role they should have had. we are not looking to create dividing lines, to classify the productive sectors of the supply chain, the agricultural, the manufacturing, the commercial, the wholesale or the retail into "good", "bad" and "ugly". i believe that we are not living in a society and economy characterized by the far west, but in an economy based on the rules of the european union's internal market, a market which offers opportunities for growth and competitiveness when it operates in a transparent way, but which displaces or eliminates productive and economic activities when it is infiltrated by unfair and opaque functions. the problem we face today and in the future is twofold: - first, to bring consumers and producers closer together through a quality policy in the food sector and to strengthen and co-design ways of making consumers more readily accessible to the productive rural areas and operators. - secondly, to ensure - and i do not mean to determine - the income of producers and consumers through a transparent price policy which includes mandatory control and supervision of intermediate production sectors throughout the supply chain. and here, of course, we mean that these are mainly small and mediumsized enterprises at local and national level, but also large enterprises, parent companies and subsidiaries based in europe, and also workers who must operate in terms of the transparency of the internal market and not those of the economic margins such as these cartels and oligopolies. today, when, among other things: - real producer prices are showing a dangerous downward trend; - consumer prices are five to ten times higher than producer prices, while consumer prices, despite the fall in inflation, remain very high; - the degree of concentration of retail and other manufacturing firms has quadrupled in the last five years and will increase due to the economic crisis and the financial bankruptcy of small and medium-sized enterprises and local firms, a situation which will make it increasingly difficult to negotiate between producers, businesses and consumers; - the dysfunctions of the railway supply chain and its practices clearly threaten healthy competition; - it is necessary to have a european supply chain, from the integrated distribution system to the integrated distribution system, with a clear distinction between supply and demand. it would not be too much to say that the next step in the commission's intervention after the regulation and supervision of the financial system would be that of the food sector, which is also directly linked to speculative movements in this sector. the citizens have the impression that supply chains, processing and retail are what regulate the household basket and not the income policy of the state and the european union. i therefore believe that by voting on the report by the committee on agriculture, and awaiting the final proposals of the european union on this subject, we will be tackling the age-old problems of the functioning of the food market, which must, in turn, operate in parallel for the benefit of european citizens, european farmers, developing countries and create a sense of security vis-à-vis the laws of the market and the institutions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all six reports we are discussing are important, as they reflect the current state of regional policy, but also describe the model and priorities for the period after 2013. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to refer in particular to the report by mrs krehl on good practice in regional policy, for which i was rapporteur for the european people's party, and to highlight the very good work done by my colleague. this report presents the main obstacles to the proper use of the structural funds and ways of overcoming them, a set of criteria for qualifying certain projects and actions as good practice, and refers to the lack of a commonly accepted definition of good practice. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. - the need to support small and mediumsized enterprises and to link regional policy with industry and science, - measures to keep the population, especially the younger generation, in their regions and to take care of working parents, and - the smooth integration of immigrants. at the same time, when we talk about good practice in regional policy, we should take into account: first, the existence of geographical and demographic specificities of the regions; second, the heterogeneity of the member states' regional organisation models; third, the need to separate the criteria for good practice into mandatory and optional criteria; and fourth, the need to take into account methods that have already been applied and have been successful in order to qualify as good practice. a few words on mr van nistelrooij's report on the green paper, to underline the good work he has done and to note that the rapporteur rightly emphasizes the need for public consultation in order to arrive at a commonly accepted definition of territorial cohesion, and the need to approach areas with specific characteristics in such a way that territorial cohesion covers these areas as well in the best possible way.
the myth of the convergence and cohesion of the countries and regions of the european union is debunked by reality itself: - economic and social disparities are constantly widening, - artificial statistical convergences caused by the accession of new countries cannot fool workers, farmers, young people and women who see their living standards continually deteriorating, - regional development in capitalist contexts cannot undo the class antagonisms of the system, - uneven growth is inherent in the capitalist mode of production, because the driving force of any development process is the maximisation of capital, - the national cohesion policies and operational programmes for the 2007-2013 erdf, like the previous ones, have a specific class orientation: comply with the anti-people guidelines of the lisbon strategy and are adapted to the national reform programmes; the commission has already taken a number of measures to promote the development of the internal market, such as the introduction of a common market in services, the creation of a common market in services, the creation of a common market in services, the creation of a common market in services, the creation of a common market in services, and the creation of a common market in services. thus, the european union and the bourgeois governments serve the needs of capital, both for the period of the capitalist crisis, by throwing all the burdens on the working class, on the workers, and with the obvious aim that these anti-working class measures have a permanent character to safeguard and increase the profits of the monopolies in the future. the new element added to the framework of cohesion policy is the concept of territorial cohesion and, in particular, the green paper on it. the reactionary nature of the guidelines in the commission's proposal goes beyond the framework of the positions and competences of the european union contained in the treaty of lisbon, the renamed euro-constitution, and this is a challenge to the peoples in the member states. the green paper on territorial cohesion sets out as immediate areas the penetration of monopolies in health, education, energy and other services, with this essential element of access mainly to transport networks. the communist party of greece is categorically opposed and rejects the whole of the reactionary framework of the commission's proposal on territorial cohesion.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the report, mr president, welcomes the activities of the two banks, but does not mention their own responsibility and contribution to the capitalist crisis. the eib is committed to playing a leading role in the financing of banks and businesses, with the aim of supporting capital gains. the european union's recovery measures are accompanied by mandatory budgetary discipline measures. the european union shares the anti-people policy of the lisbon strategy, the stability pact and the maastricht treaty, which are designed to place the burden of the crisis on the shoulders of workers by means of wage cuts, the generalization of flexible working relationships, the division of unemployment and new anti-socialist measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission is calling for permanent and lasting measures. additional measures to reduce social expenditure, particularly on public health and care, while at the same time enriching the private sector in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the only way forward in the interests of the people is to reject the measures imposed by capital, which are essentially agreed by all the forces supporting maastricht and the european union. the creation of a socio-political alliance for the people's economy and the people's power.
mr president, today we are 27 countries and we spend on the community budget less than 1% of our collective wealth, about the same as we did when we were 15. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it's a crucial question to answer: how much money and for what policies ? where do we draw the line, the bar of our ambition? this time we have to put everything on the table without any pre-requisites and the conversation has to start from scratch. we have to face two major difficulties in this great negotiation: firstly, there are now more of us than at any other time since the negotiations began, and secondly, unfortunately, this negotiation is taking place when the cycle of the fat cow has ended and when the economic crisis is hitting us hard. the negotiations which are now beginning, in the very realistic approach of reimer böge, must nevertheless confirm three basic values for europe: - first, that the future of agriculture in the community after 2013 must be secured; - second, that the principle of cohesion and solidarity between the member states must not end; and - third, that it is time to talk about smart growth, about money that goes to brains, not just asphalt and cement.
the report by mr böge, the president of our commission, which we are discussing today, is, in my view, very interesting and crucial for three reasons: firstly, because it points to areas in need of improvement; secondly, because it is a report which is very important for the future of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. the commission - the five-year functioning of the financial perspective and the five-year political functioning of the budgetary policies, which will coincide with the life of our parliament with the political proposals at budgetary level, are very essential. - secondly, the question of flexibility is very important. but flexibility is not just about changing between sectors, it's about a general response. flexibility alone is not the answer. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. the debate in the ep confirms that the political forces of capital and the euro-road support the acceleration of capitalist restructuring and the flexibility of labour relations in the context of the lisbon strategy and the completion of the internal market. they promote the strategic choice of capital and the eu to place the burdens of the crisis on the backs of the workers. the maastricht treaty and the stability pact are the springboard for a full-scale attack on the labour rights and income of the working class family under the pretext of reducing deficits. the recent commission decisions to permanently restrict expenditure will have painful consequences for public health and care, workers' insurance rights and pensions which, combined with the demand for tax increases, will drastically reduce the living standards of the lower classes. the proposed solution to the crisis in the green economy, energy, broadband and innovation is aimed at expanding capital into new profitable sectors rather than protecting the environment and meeting people's needs. the workers must not accept any sacrifice for the profits of the plutocracy, but must go on the offensive by organising their struggle, condemning the maastricht and euro-path parties and sending a message of disobedience to the eu by supporting the kke in the european elections in june.
in writing. the mid-term review of the financial perspective 2007-2013 has been considered as a compromise in the 2005 decision and may be considered necessary in the current context of the economic crisis. however, it can never be an excuse for redistributing resources between member states and policies such as the structural funds and the cap. policies ensuring, inter alia, cohesion, employment, territorial convergence and the mobilisation of public and private expenditure. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but what must be avoided and cannot be accepted is the introduction of new policies to protect the environment and the climate, and to deal with the economic crisis, without increasing the resources of the community budget, which remains stable after the new enlargement of the eu. europe must dare to increase its resources for single community policies and not confine itself to redistributing resources between old and new policies.
in writing. the eu, in a period of capitalist crisis and of intensifying inter-imperialist antagonisms, is seeking to strengthen the positions of european monopolies and to gain new positions on the world market. it combines open imperialist interventions throughout the world, by military or non-military means, and the economic intervention of the monopolies through international trade and economic transactions. the wto is the most aggressive form of agreement to date that the eu has ever imposed on developing countries. the aim is to impose capital's power and to exploit its human resources and its wealth-producing resources. the conditions imposed require the liberalisation of markets, the privatisation of all services, particularly energy, water, health, education and culture. the case of the southern african development community (sadc) and the common market for eastern and southern africa (comesa) is typical. divide and rule. the eu's pressure and blackmail to accept timetables and content of the agreements, separate agreements and different terms for each state. we are voting against the sme because they are for the benefit of capital profits and at the expense of the people. it is further proof that world trade under conditions of imperialist domination and monopolies cannot be conducted on the basis of mutual benefit.
madam president, the escalation of the european union's vile, anti-communist campaign is a bold challenge to the peoples: by falsifying history, slandering and lying, equates fascism with communism. the most reactionary and barbaric regime that capitalism has ever produced, fascism, with the most progressive thing that human thought has ever conceived, communism, that is, the abolition of the exploitation of man by man. it is an insult to the memory of the 20 million soviet citizens who sacrificed themselves to defeat fascism. this vulgar anti-communism is aimed not so much at the past as at the present and the future. it seeks today to reduce popular resistance and to shift the burden of the capitalist crisis onto the workers, to forestall the inevitable generalized challenge and overthrow of the capitalist system tomorrow. that is why it is attacking the communists and tarnishing the socialist communist perspective. it also wants to blackmail the communist parties that are firm in their principles into abandoning them and integrating. you have delusions! the communists are not going to bow their heads. they defended their ideology with their lives. we do not sign a declaration of repentance to imperialism. his overthrow is a social necessity and we will serve it consistently. we're not afraid of you! social progress will go forward, that's what scares you and you're running this campaign.
the president-in-office of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, i will conclude my speech in czech today and try to summarise and answer some of the questions that have been raised. i think it's three things. first of all, i would like to thank everyone who took part in both the hearing last week and this plenary debate. and if this was the first debate of its kind in a long time, that's only good, and i think the first conclusion is that we have to have this debate and we have to continue it. that's the goal of the memory and consciousness platform. why is such a platform important at european level? it's important as a tool against forgetting the past. if we forget the past, of course, it's an opportunity to return to us in the future through the back door. it's also an opportunity to fight the relativisation of past crimes. hitler and stalin are the same blood. of course, there were countries where nazism enabled or helped to bring about criminal communism. but any kind of relativism -- and i don't want to get into the politics of it -- any kind of relativism is extremely dangerous. secondly, we must maintain awareness of history as part of european education. and here we think, and this is after all part of one of the conclusions of the hearings that took place last week, that we need to strengthen the financial instruments to have in the field of education an awareness of the totalitarian past on the european continent. we need the means to do this and i would like to thank the commission and commissioner figeľ in particular for the commission's willingness to cooperate on this matter. and last but not least, what the debate should be about. the presidency is a short thing. it takes six months. we are halfway through, and i am certainly under no illusion that if this parliament is about to dissolve we can do the impossible, but i think the idea of creating a kind of pan-european institution, whether at the level of a museum or a research institute or a foundation, is what we need. the hearing last week brought together representatives of some of the similar institutions that exist at national level, and i think the need for such an institution at european level is more than desirable. but of course this is a task for institutions which guarantee some further continuity rather than a six-month rotating presidency. if our task was to help to initiate a debate, i thank you once again for making it a success, and i invite those of you who will be the guarantors of that continuity to continue the debate, perhaps one day it will lead to the fact that such an institution will actually exist.
member of the commission. - i have already stated the essence of the commission's message at the outset and can only reaffirm not only the readiness but also the will, which was also one of the points. if we are to have the will of the european commission to help this process, i have already mentioned the next steps, which is to complete a study of the different methods, mechanisms of the member states in this area and to submit the expected report next year. which i do want to add a little to the margo debate. some have suggested that the 20th anniversary of the fall of communism, the fall of the berlin wall, the iron curtain in europe, is a long time. i think it is never too late, and it would be too late if this parliament, the new enlarged parliament, had not spoken out against the crimes and totalitarian communism, or rather had not opened this debate, because many people have come with this experience and most of the debaters were from the new member states. i too have lived most of my life in the totalitarian system of czechoslovakia, and it is up to the personal and collective experience of all of us to build together a european memory, a european community, and at the same time to help the processes that prevent a return, or as it were, to the trivialization and rejection of crimes, the rejection of the truth. the denial of these crimes is actually a relativisation not only of the truth, but of ethics, of morality, and that is then the way to more and more problems and the liquidation of man by the quasi-elimination of the problem. it was one of the principles that man was eliminated from the difficulties, under the stalin regime. i see the enlarged union as more complete, and that is why it has the ability to name what has been perceived as different forms of totalitarianism, in different countries, different forms. and we are responsible for naming them, for remembering them and taking appropriate action, whether in terms of restitution, rehabilitation, the establishment of justice and the maintenance of the rule of law, respect for human dignity and all that freedom and democracy mean. i also want to say that we often feel as if the threats come from far outside, and that the dividing line of the world today is not religions, or any other civilizational and cultural dividing line, but a line that speaks of respect for life, respect for the human being on the one hand (what we define as human rights), and on the other fanaticism of any kind. and there were many, they're different. we know them in the world today, and that's why the education that alexander vondra mentioned is very important, so that young people and less young people can distinguish between respect for the person and extremism, populism, nationalism, fanaticism, different, different expressions. i want to conclude by saying that the european commission is really supporting this process, and we will be looking for ways to help. it's just one step in this debate, but other issues. much more needs to be done at member state level too. i would like to conclude by saying that the fact that the union can be enlarged today is due to the sacrifices of many, that it is not the result of an automatic process. neither the common europe, nor democracy, nor freedom, nor the rule of law is a given automatic state, but the result of a huge effort, often bloody, and this must be remembered. and i would like to conclude with what i think mr tunne kelam said about the enlargement of the union, not just the geography and the market and the number of countries, but the enlargement of conscience, the enlargement of memory, the enlargement of respect and responsibility. if this is part of the process that we are celebrating now, five years after enlargement, then we are ready for other processes, for another future. if we're missing that, the journey will be much more difficult. thank you very much and i wish you an expansion not only of memory but also of responsibility.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, we live in an age where everyone - governments, private companies, even criminals - want to have as much access as possible to our electronic data, to our private lives. the internet in particular offers details of our private lives that would have been unthinkable a few years ago. at the same time, it is clear that it is jeopardizing the exercise of our basic fundamental rights: freedom of speech, freedom of political action, freedom of knowledge and education, freedom of association. less clear is that we risk violating exactly these same freedoms by using the internet. secret surveillance by governments, private companies, or even criminals, of what we do or see online. and even less clear is how we can therefore find the balance here. how can we regulate the internet in such a way that it allows us to derive its benefits while limiting its obvious risks? the report attempts to answer these questions. among other things: - firstly, calls for a european initiative to create a global charter of fundamental rights on the internet; - secondly, points to the need to combat old and new crimes on the internet, such as identity theft and copyright protection, effectively and proportionately, while stressing that no legislation can result in the systematic surveillance of all citizens, suspected or not, innocent or not, because this would of course constitute a flagrant violation of privacy; - thirdly, on the right of citizens to access the internet, calls on governments to ensure that it is available even to the poorest citizens, even in the most remote areas; - fourthly, stresses that computer literacy in the 21st century is the new illiteracy, as was illiteracy in the 20th century, and that access to the internet is therefore a corresponding fundamental right to access to education; - fifth, it calls for measures to restrict user consent, a major issue which i will discuss below. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. let me give you an example: a few decades ago, no one knew what newspaper i read; just my family and maybe some friends. that is why, even in dictatorial regimes, the secret services were eager to find out, to 'sweep me down'. they say that labrinides reads this newspaper, so he must be a communist, or he must be an american. today, every newspaper i read leaves a mark on me. that means that private companies can do the same thing, create a profile of me, of my political beliefs, of my dietary habits, even of my health. does the fact that i visit these websites mean that i have consented to take my society back 40 years? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. this balance seems difficult, but it's not. it is possible. we have to stop treating cyberspace as something that is outside of our everyday lives, something special. because it's our life. that means, mr. president, that whatever rights and whatever barriers exist for police and private companies on the internet, they must also exist off the internet. otherwise we risk abolishing freedoms to find security and, ultimately, not having any freedoms and not having any real security. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of all the political groups i see here in this chamber for their extremely important support. i thank all the members of the european parliament in the committee on civil liberties and i look forward to the adoption of this report by the house.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank not only parliament in general but especially mr stavros lambrinidis for his important report, which provides very timely input to the promotion of fundamental freedoms and security on the internet. whilst the internet has acquired a stronger and stronger weight in modern societies and economies, impacting in many areas of our lives, the tremendous pace of technological development raises, at the same time, significant challenges which need to be duly addressed if we want the full opportunities of the internet and the information society to unravel. we particularly share mr lambrinidis’s concerns on the protection of personal data, an issue which is of utmost relevance to internet users. let me assure you that the commission continues to be committed to strengthening citizens’ fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms, and in particular to ensuring a high level of protection of privacy and personal data, both on the internet and in other contexts. i firmly believe that the pursuit of adequate privacy protection does not stand in opposition to the need to ensure greater security. indeed, these two objectives can and should be pursued in synergy. the stability and security of the internet were our priorities during the world summit on the information society in 2005, and we are continuing with these objectives. these issues and will shortly be presented through a new strategy for the protection of critical information infrastructures and in order to enhance europe’s preparation against large-scale cyber attacks and disruptions. this strategy includes an action plan which defines a road map to promote principles and guidelines for the stability and resilience of the internet. strategic cooperation with third countries will be developed within the strategy, notably in information society dialogues, as a vehicle to build global consensus in this area. at the same time, the commission is convinced that it is necessary to ensure respect for fundamental freedoms such as freedom of expression on the internet. again, these two goals are not mutually exclusive. your report further elaborates on the possibility of working on global standards, data protection and freedom of speech. the commission participates in the yearly international conferences of data protection commissioners and follows the ongoing work on possible future international standards on privacy and personal data protection. we are strongly committed to promoting the high standards of protection which eu citizens enjoy at present. regarding freedom of speech, the commission will continue to promote this fundamental right in international forums. new legislation in this area would not be considered as the way forward for the time being. we already have a number of binding international instruments on this subject. at this point in time, i believe that it would be useful to engage in effective reflection on the proper ways to enforce the existing legislation. so it is about implementation. this reflection should also include and help global commercial players to better define their roles and their responsibilities in the promotion and strengthening of the fundamental freedom of expression in the global online environment of the internet. let me conclude with a general comment. i believe we should tackle the serious challenges that this report brings to light and make sure that the concrete exercise of rights and freedoms is not unduly limited on the internet. for example, an essential element of the commission’s strategy for a secure information society, since 2006, has been to have a holistic approach, ensuring coordination amongst stakeholders but also recognising that each of them has specific roles and responsibilities to fulfil. we all have responsibilities to make sure that our actions on the internet do not unduly limit – and, if possible, that they promote – the security of others on this medium. it is, therefore, in the spirit of cooperation that the commission welcomes and supports this report.
the committee on culture and education has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of children against the dangers arising from the use of certain dangerous substances. - the mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr stavros lambrinidis, on his important report and on his commitment to the protection of personal data. a principle that most of us respect, and i personally do. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education, i believe that the internet is an excellent platform for the dissemination of culture and knowledge; i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. examples, such as digitized museum archives, e-books, music, audio-visual material, can be accessed by people in every corner of the earth. but in the vastness of the internet and the world, cultural material is unfortunately not adequately protected. piracy tends to be the rule rather than the exception, and it is creators who are harmed by the illegal trafficking of their intellectual property. in other words: poets, songwriters, musicians, composers, producers and, in general, every member of the creative community. three of the reasons that help to develop piracy are: technological ease and the low cost of illegal copying, adverse economic conditions and the spread of the internet. amendment no 4 reiterates the recommendation of the committee on culture to strike the right balance between the rights and freedoms of all concerned, and to ensure and protect also all the fundamental rights of individuals under the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in the context of the widespread use of the internet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected.
mr president, it has become almost a habit in this house to consider a report on the internet. this is welcome because it allows the member states and the european union to finally deal effectively with these topical issues concerning the use of the internet. i congratulate mr lambrinidis on his acceptance of the amendments tabled by his colleagues in his very extensive report, and on his enrichment of the subject under discussion by introducing several new aspects. the last time we were in parliament we discussed the issues of online video games and the risks to minors, and the european union's financial mechanism for a safe internet for minors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internet is not used for illegal purposes. the report will therefore serve as a catalogue to be examined in depth by legal experts, who will then carry out the research project that will provide the various actors mentioned in the report with the tools to draft legislation that will enshrine the rule of law in the democratic use of the internet. and we certainly cannot talk about democracy when every citizen does not have the right, regardless of their financial capacity, to use the internet. that is not the reality today, but we hope that it will be one day.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank all the speakers for their committed and interesting contributions. i just want to add two points about what i said at the beginning. we share, for example, concerns on intellectual property rights and the balanced approach which is needed here. this is important for the overall evolution, or development, of the information society. enforcement of these property rights must be duly balanced with fundamental freedoms or rights, which are enumerated in the report, including the right to privacy, protection of personal data and the right to participate in the information society. many of you mentioned children – minors – protection of those who are probably most facing these challenges, and they are sitting at computers daily. here i would not only recommend but would strongly invite partners, member states and institutions to cooperate with the safer internet programme 2009-2013. there is quite a significant budget for this. action has already been taken on undue or illegal content but also against harmful behaviour or conduct such as grooming or bullying, which have been mentioned. there are many issues, but i would advocate implementation of serious policies on commitments, whether national or international. we have a directive on privacy and electronic communications, a lot of concrete action or action plans, a european programme on protection of critical infrastructures. so that is why i said we do not need more legislation, rather due and appropriate implementation, and then, of course, further evolution and improvements. somebody rightly mentioned the telecom package. yesterday’s trialogue gives a lot of hope for final agreement. i want to conclude by saying that this year was declared the european year of creativity and innovation and the motto is: imagine, create, innovate. so we maybe cannot imagine the world without the internet but it is important to imagine and create and innovate to make it safer and closer to humanity and human responsibility.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank the commission. to make the interpreters’ lives easier – as i am speaking off text – i will, as an exception, do this in english. i respect the sensitivities of those who are concerned about the protection of intellectual property. but i have the impression that they are fighting a battle on the wrong report. my report is not a single-issue report; it is a report that talks generally about protecting fundamental rights and security on the internet and, indeed, that is why it received unanimous support. however, to the extent that it does refer to intellectual property rights, one would think by listening to some of the speeches that it ignores them. let me read, in particular, how balanced we have attempted to be with this report. in paragraph 1(k), we urge the to council to ‘proceed to the adoption of the directive on criminal measures aimed at the enforcement of intellectual property rights, following an assessment, in the light of contemporary innovation research, of the extent to which it is necessary and proportionate’. this is what the report states. the amendments, however, are anything but balanced. amendments that delete what the report calls for – which is a prohibition to the systematic surveillance of all users, whether or not suspect and whether or not guilty, to protect any security right – are anything but balanced. they call on us to totally abandon fundamental rights to protect something else. secondly, amendments that delete or water down a very precise and specific reference in the report – that controversial political speech should not be criminalised – are amendments that i oppose, and i am glad to hear that many others in this room do as well. political speech has to be protected, especially when it is controversial. if everyone in this room agreed with each other, we would not need freedom of speech legislation. it is when we do not – and especially to protect the speech that may particularly be angering to people like me or others – that we have those laws. this reference in the report does not talk about ‘criminal’ speech. it talks specifically about ‘controversial political’ speech. therefore, i urge everyone to support this particular paragraph in the report and to support the report in general. i am deeply grateful to everyone – even those who disagree with me – who was here tonight. i know it is not easy. thank you for your support during all these months leading up to this report. i look forward to working with you on your reports in the future and showing you similar understanding and support.
i'm the editor. - the mr president, commissioner, the informal meeting of sports ministers in biarritz in november 2008 was the first substantive european sports forum at the level of transnational cooperation. it is a first, substantial and important step. principles such as subsidiarity, autonomy and self-regulation in sport are widely applied at national and regional level. they cannot, however, answer the fundamental question of whether, in the end, sport has a social role or a purely commercial dimension which inevitably transforms a sporting activity into a product of the internal market. today, the intense commercialisation of sport, combined with its opening up to purely commercial sectors such as media advertising, has given it purely economic characteristics. the court of justice of the european union has already been called on several occasions to determine - in specific cases - whether a sporting activity is a purely public service or whether, on the contrary, it also has economic implications which are inherent in a service of general economic interest. the specific social role of sport, although it does not justify its general exemption from the rule of community law, is still recognised and allows for restrictions, provided that such exceptions are justified by the social role of sport itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. - first, the same problem of the autonomy of the organizations; the autonomy of sports clubs and federations should be guaranteed. however, there are clear cases where self-regulation does not ensure equal treatment of all operators; - secondly, there is an urgent need for the commission to give us the necessary guidance now on the question of the definition of the concept of a service of general economic interest in the field of sport and the criteria that limit the enforcement of the internal market freedoms and the rules of competition; and - thirdly, a matter which may not be mentioned in the oral question but is of great importance is what has emerged at national level, namely the way in which the television rights for sporting events are managed by public or non-public broadcasters. the entry of many new owners of providers, both new technology and telecommunications-based, has been the main enticement for many sports federations to sell these rights in preference. however, it should be stressed at this point that, precisely because of the social role of sport, it would be wrong to promote a system which lacks solidarity between clubs and in which economic competition is enhanced. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in sport is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the role and organisation of sports clubs is an important issue in the way they negotiate with the european commission, the committee on culture and the european parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome the statement by the eu sports ministers at their meeting last november in biarritz. they are important in driving the political debate on sport forward step by step and also in strengthening dialogue structures on sport, as was recommended in our white paper in 2007. this white paper on sport is making good progress in implementation. the recent european council declaration on sport, in december, is also a very important step forward and calls for strengthened dialogue with the ioc and the sport movement as a priority. the commission has moved swiftly to follow up both calls from the political side. however, dialogue in sport remains a challenging task, given the diversity of sport and the complexity of the sport structures. in january, in lausanne, i met with the ioc president, mr jacques rogge, and representatives of international sport federations. the meeting confirmed that sport organisations are really moving away from insisting on general exemptions – ‘block exemptions’ – from the ‘acquis communautaire’ for sport, and are ready to address sport-related topics with legal implications on a theme-per-theme basis. i think this is the appropriate way to achieve more clarity regarding the application of european union law to sport, in addition to guidance provided in the white paper. we are also exchanging views with team sports. my services met last week with the main international and european team sport federations to discuss free movement of athletes and non-discrimination aspects in sport. i intend to follow up on these discussions by convening a further meeting at this high level in june. finally, good progress has been achieved in setting up eu social dialogue structures in sport. it started in football and i believe it will continue in other sectors. regarding the shape of the dialogue framework, there simply cannot be a single, formal framework for consultation with the sport movement. given the specific organisation of sport, the dialogue must take account of the different levels of sport. i am committed to a constructive partnership with all actors in sport respecting the autonomy of sport, subsidiarity principles and national and eu legal frameworks. i think this is crucial in shaping the future eu policy framework for sport, which – without prejudging developments regarding the lisbon treaty – we might have to implement as early as next year. here i also would like to thank the european parliament, and especially the committee on culture and education, for its support. you also, notably, approved the specific line, or budget, for a preparatory action, which we will soon start to implement. this is an important opportunity and will help us to frame our ideas for the way ahead.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the white paper on sport, i had the opportunity to present the european parliament's position at the meeting of the ministers for sport of the member states of the european union in biarritz. the white paper stresses the need to respect the autonomy and specificity of sport. the political debate on sport in europe often places great importance on the so-called 'european sport model'. during the discussions with the european sports bodies on the white paper on sport, the commission and the european parliament agreed that the specific nature of sport must be protected in all circumstances. there are two approaches to the specificity of european sport: - first, the specific nature of sporting activities and sporting rules; and - second, the specific nature of the structure of sport. as regards the latter, the european union recognises the autonomy of sports organisations and representative structures such as organisers of professional leagues. however, in order to achieve better and more effective coordination, there should be a minimum of regulation at european level. the commission and the european sports community therefore believe that most of the challenges can be met by self-regulation, while respecting the principles of good administration and respecting community law. in general, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, mr president, the european union is very careful in its approach to and regulation of sports matters, provided that they are compatible with european law.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, it would be very interesting if it were possible to compare the resolution in the report by the committee on agriculture and the alternative resolution by the 40 members and the alde group. it could be seen that: - first, a total of 15 proposals are amended without giving a message; - second, that beyond the quantitative aspect there is also the political aspect where the alternative proposal deletes all reference to the role and responsibility of the large retail and wholesale chains; - third, that the written declaration of the european parliament with the 439 signatures of colleagues who want supermarkets to be controlled and operated properly is itself repealed; and - fourth, that any policy of unfair competition is deleted or embellished, and it even goes as far as to refuse to recommend the creation of a european action on producer prices and universal access to all citizens and consumers. the aim of the committee on agriculture, and of the high level group, is to examine competition practices and the transparency of the internal market in the food sector. today we are all judged.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am grateful to everyone for their support. there is just one slight point of confusion for me. the oral amendment is on the voting list but nobody stood up to support it. does that mean that it fell and did not come to the vote at all? is that correct?
in writing. the report makes repeated, well-known observations on the monopoly situation that has been created in the processing and marketing of food. it does not, however, state that this situation is a conscious choice of the eu and the governments of the member states in the context of the lisbon strategy and the cap. market liberalisation, merger and acquisition incentives and the pursuit of profit and competitiveness in the food industry have led to multinational dominance, higher consumer prices, lower producer prices and higher capital gains. the cap has made a decisive contribution to this process by abolishing minimum guaranteed prices, selling off the small and medium-sized farmer to the wto in order for multinationals to secure cheap raw materials, and persecuting or reducing cooperatives despite the hypocritical proclamations of the parties of the euro-road. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk market is not affected by the crisis. today it promotes the consumption of products of reduced nutritional value, leaving thousands of farmers exposed who cannot sell their produce in a country which produces 50% of its needs. the struggle for cheap and safe food, for the survival of the poor peasantry, requires a strong alliance of workers, farmers, self-employed, popular power and popular economy.
in writing. the 'high expectations' of the european parliament from the election of obama to the us presidency are really only for the imperialists, who legitimately expect their interests to be served more effectively. the people must not entertain any illusions that there will be a change of policy in their favour. after all, the very proclamations and statements of the new president of the united states leave no room for doubt. the report calls for closer and deeper eu cooperation with the us and nato after this election. to this end, it proposes the creation of an institutional body for the coordination of the foreign and security policy of the two imperialist centres (eu-us) at an even higher level. european and american imperialists, in a period of sharpening of their rivalries and contradictions due to the capitalist economic crisis, are simultaneously trying to coordinate their cooperation to face the popular resistance. this is the aim of the call for a common and effective response to 'global challenges', 'defence and security issues' and 'regional issues'. the willingness expressed in the report to accept guantanamo detainees in the eu if the us so requests is characteristic. in the united attack of the eu, the us and nato against them, the peoples must oppose their own common front to overthrow the imperialist order of things
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission by mrs doris pack, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats, on the role of culture in the development of the european regions (o-0064/2009 - b6-0226/2009).
member of the commission. − madam president, allow me first of all to thank you for the opportunity, on behalf of commissioner figeľ, to address the place of culture in our policies and its particular contribution to the development of european regions and cities. the importance of culture is taken into consideration in different ways at community level. in the context of the eu’s cohesion policy, regional and local strategies have successfully integrated culture to support creativity and to promote innovation. cohesion policy supports, for instance, the protection of our cultural heritage, the development of cultural infrastructure and services, the development of regional attractiveness and its link with sustainable tourism, but also the regeneration of local economies and the development of cross-border strategies. in 2007, the commission launched the european agenda for culture, which is now in its first stages of implementation. this new strategic approach to culture sets common objectives and aims to propel the economic, social and political value of culture by strengthening its transversal role. in this framework, the commission and the member states are cooperating under a new open method of cooperation to strengthen joint efforts in areas with a direct impact on local and regional development strategies. this will, for instance, help maximise the potential of creative and cultural industries, in particular smes; promote access to culture, and encourage the mobility of cultural professionals. feeding into the ongoing reflection, the commission will soon launch an independent study on the contribution of culture to local and regional economic development as part of the european regional policy. the results of this study will help underline the value of investing in the cultural and creative sectors and will illustrate the links between such investment, specific regional development objectives and the lisbon agenda for growth and jobs. the study will also contribute to the preparation of a green paper on the potential of cultural and creative industries, which is currently under preparation and is due for adoption by the commission in early 2010. the commission regularly organises conferences with representatives from local and regional authorities. let me simply highlight the open days, which every year bring together in brussels a large number of stakeholders to debate a wide range of issues relating to regional and cohesion policy. aspects relating to culture have been regularly considered in the context of these workshops. moreover, within the context of other european policies, such as the eu’s integrated maritime policy, the commission also endeavours to involve civil society actors in highlighting europe’s rich maritime heritage. thus, next may, during the european maritime day celebrations in rome, stakeholders will examine the links between maritime heritage and sustainable regional tourism, amongst others. finally, i also wish to mention the european cultural forum, which will be organised for the first time by the commission, in the context of the european agenda for culture in brussels, on 29 and 30 september, and will bring together representatives of the cultural sector and national authorities, including local and regional authorities.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating you on the initiative on such an interesting subject as the development of the regions of the european union through culture. cultural heritage is an important element of the identity and historical development of the peoples of europe. the protection and preservation of the cultural heritage is therefore of particular importance for the education of the young generation and the respect of european identity. regardless of its european, national or local dimension, cultural heritage is a fundamental value for european citizens. we all find that the spotlight is on the big cities, where the most famous museums and monuments are located. however, it is a fact that the european countryside, which represents 90% of the european territory, is suffering from neglect and economic decline. european cultural programmes therefore contribute significantly to the development of economic activity in the regions. it is not just the supply of jobs and employment, it is the creation of cultural and historical tourist attractions that will contribute to the sustainable development of these areas. we therefore find that culture contributes directly to the development of the cultural education of europeans and indirectly to the economic well-being of the regions which need it most.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for the number of points that they have raised. i will certainly forward your points and the concerns that you have expressed to commissioner figeľ. i would, however, like to express some general points and reactions. mrs pack spoke about the harmonising of rules at european level and how this impacts on regional diversity. i would like to point out that having harmonisation at european level is necessary in order to ensure a level playing field across the european union so that its citizens can fully benefit from the single internal market. this would not, however, mean that such harmonisation leads to less cultural diversity. in fact this was also the outcome of the european year on intercultural dialogue. furthermore, the commission, through its regional policy, promotes cultural diversity and invests in culture, both directly and indirectly, indeed by involving regional authorities and stakeholders. in a number of policy areas the commission seeks to promote diversity and take account of regional specificities across the european union. concerning the point raised on the issue of culture and the economic crisis and the overall contribution to growth and jobs, let me just recall that the commission is undertaking a study this year to analyse how the cultural dimension has been integrated into the regional development strategies for 2007-2013. the results of the study will highlight the value of investing in the cultural sector, including cultural and creative industries, and will underline the links between such investment, the specific regional development objectives and the lisbon agenda. on the green paper i would like to inform you, as i said at the outset, that this policy document is due in the first quarter of 2010 and its aim is to launch an open consultation process. it has three main policy objectives. firstly, to advance a more strategic approach. secondly, to unlock the potential of european cultural and creative industries, and, thirdly, to contribute to the development of strategies aimed at encouraging better linkages between cultural and creative industries and other sectors of the economy, and thus to connect culture and creativity with innovation and the wider economy. the regional dimension will of course be fully taken into account in this context. i would like to conclude by referring to the statement made by mr posselt that culture is often destroyed by nationalisms. certainly not by the european union: it firmly believes in and upholds unity and diversity.
i have received three motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 2 april 2009. written declarations (rule 142) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the reasons for the decision.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the opening of international negotiations for an international treaty for the protection of the arctic.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you whether it is an insult to the house that when i speak to you i am sitting in the back and not standing up like all my colleagues? the european parliament has been, and must continue to be, a supporter of the horizontal directive which will ensure equal treatment and protect european citizens from all discrimination. this directive should complement the existing european legal framework, in particular as regards disabled people and the obligation to ensure effective and non-discriminatory access. we have included important proposals: the commission is proposing to introduce a new system of protection against multiple discrimination. define how effective and non-discriminatory access is ensured. in cases where it is not possible to ensure access on the same terms and conditions as for non-disabled people, we should be provided with a meaningful alternative. more stringent criteria are set out to assess whether measures to ensure effective and non-discriminatory access would impose a disproportionate burden. there are some points in the report which do not satisfy us all, so we will support some of the amendments tabled which strengthen the coherence. in any case, i think we should support the report, sending a clear message to the council: that we must at last have effective european legislation to put an end to the discrimination which undermines confidence in the fundamental european values of equality and the rule of law.
the rapporteur. - the i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on regional development for the spirit of cooperation with which we have worked. in the wake of the financial crisis that has erupted in recent months, we all know that the commission, in order to strengthen the european economy and strengthen the central pillars of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, adopted the communication of 26 november 2008 on a european economic recovery programme for the member states and their regions. the programme encourages the member states to reprogram their structural funds operational programmes in the energy sector, with particular attention to improving the energy efficiency of buildings, given that the building sector is one of the industries which generates a large number of jobs. the 2006 general regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 on the structural funds therefore needed to be revised. in this context, and more specifically with regard to the energy efficiency of buildings, i have undertaken, as rapporteur for the european parliament, to revise the relevant regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the erdf has so far considered as eligible expenditure for housing, and in particular for energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing, only expenditure incurred by member states that joined the european union after may 2004. in my report i thought it appropriate, firstly, to focus all 27 member states on the framework for the revision of the regulation on facilitating energy efficiency and renewable energy sources in the housing sector. i think that this proposal is of great importance, since it is not based on the date of accession but on the economic situation of a state or region. i would like to point out here that there are significant problems of access to housing in many cities and regions of europe, not all of which are necessarily in the territory of a new member state. secondly, i would like to see a spending limit for these investments of 4% of the total erdf budget, to remove the reference to low-income households, which was included in the commission's original proposal, and leave it to the member states to determine the categories of housing that will be eligible. on this basis, i considered it crucial to assign to the member states the responsibility for the eligibility of the housing category, with the possibility for the member states to set specific criteria of interest, such as the financial situation of the owners, the geographical areas (island, mountainous, non-mountain, etc.). finally, the increase in the lump sums to eur 50 000 is significant because it reflects the cost data of our time. the report i have tabled is intended to express the european parliament's views on this subject and to represent the compromise reached with the council in the co-decision procedure on the changes we made to the original proposal. the revision of that regulation does not affect eligible housing costs and boosts the activity of important sectors of the economy such as the construction and renewable energy and energy system industries. more generally, it is in line with the principle of subsidiarity, since it provides support to the member states; it is in line with the principle of proportionality, since it applies to all member states; it promotes the objectives of cohesion policy as set out in article 158 of the treaty on european union; and it does not burden the community budget for the period 2007 to 2013, but it speeds up the payment of advances and interim payments. i would like to make it clear here how important it is that we have the addition of three additional forms of eligible expenditure: indirect expenditure, flat-rate expenditure and flat-rate expenditure. in conclusion, i would like to say that we have with us today commissioner barrot, representing the regional policy commissioner, mrs hübner, who will - as agreed - make a binding statement from the commission on the evaluation of the new measures for 2010, a statement which concerns all three regulations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's package of amendments to the provisions of the structural funds regulations is an important step towards simplifying and directly mobilising resources, both at european, national and local level. this is an important step towards stimulating the european economy in the midst of an unprecedented crisis which is increasingly affecting the real economy at all levels. this is in response to the european parliament's constant call for further simplification of procedures and greater flexibility in the application of the structural funds rules. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, which are not in line with the commission's proposal. but in order to ensure that the necessary liquidity reaches the recipients and that projects can be started immediately and implemented in a timely manner, member states must rise to the occasion. cohesion policy resources must be made available directly and in a timely manner to the real beneficiaries at regional and local level. the activation of operational programmes should aim to ensure employment and entrepreneurship, competitiveness and the exploitation of the natural, cultural and human capital of each region. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programmes are implemented in a timely manner. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, thank you very much. i have to make a few remarks about what was heard: i am very pleased, commissioner, that you have announced that the advance payments will probably start from the beginning of may. i am therefore assuming that within a reasonable period of two, three, four weeks from tomorrow, these amendments will be published in the official journal of the european union, so that what you have said can be implemented. that's the first indication. the second point i would like to make is that in the new term of office you must move quickly to amend and simplify other regulations - as has been mentioned by other colleagues - and the european parliament wants to contribute actively to the study, evaluation and formulation of these regulations. i should like to say that we had our own ideas and proposals, but in view of the urgency of the matter, we thought - the majority of us in this committee and in the european parliament - that it would not be a good idea to make such amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that 4% represents the maximum amount committed by the erdf, which is satisfactory and i hope it will go much better. i also welcome your statement that in the second half of 2010 you will report on the recovery plans based on these programmes which have been submitted to you by the member states. finally, i would like to stress, commissioner, that the complexity of the procedures is the first problem faced by the member states and regions in implementing these procedures. it is imperative that they be simplified. i believe that you will help in this direction and that you will have the european parliament as your supporters.
madam president, the european court of justice's judgment against greece has recently been published, which equalises the retirement age for men and women in the public sector, thus raising the retirement age for women from 5 to 17 years. this development, which has been strongly condemned by the workers, has been in the making since the early 1990s and has been endorsed by the european union and the greek governments. it is affecting working women, and is moving towards raising and equalising the retirement age for men and women to 65, as already established by the anti-insurance laws of the new republic and pasok for new insured persons since 1993, in application of community legislation. this unacceptable decision undermines the public social nature of social security in the public and private sectors. it considers that the public pension scheme is not a social insurance scheme but an occupational insurance scheme. this means that there is no guarantee of age limits, the amount of pensions and, in general, benefits. the only way out for the workers is to disobey and disobey the decisions of the european union and its institutions.
member of the commission. - the mr president, i should first like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs, mrs mcavan and mr tatarella, for their excellent reports on the proposals for the revision of the european union eco-label and the eco-management and control system. these are two important environmental policy measures which form an integral part of the action plan for sustainable consumption and production. it is positive that agreement can be reached at first reading. the contribution of members of the european parliament was decisive; the commission has succeeded in keeping intact the environmental objective of the commission proposal, but has also set even more ambitious targets in a number of important areas. the agreement reached at first reading confirms the institutions' willingness to tackle urgently the problems posed by unsustainable consumption and production. the revision of the eco-management and audit scheme, known as emas, is enabling organisations and businesses around the world to manage the environmental impact of their activities more effectively. emas contributes to the continuous improvement of the environmental performance of organisations and businesses, including, of course, compliance with relevant environmental legislation. it also offers organisations and businesses additional benefits, not only through direct cost savings, but also through reduced reporting red tape and incentives from the competent authorities of the member states. the review of the system has enabled us to respond to the growing demand from consumers for objective, unbiased and reliable information on the environmental impact of the products they buy. the revised system will enable us to increase the variety of eco-labelled products on the market and encourage businesses to improve their environmental performance. the eco-label logo will also offer them many competitive advantages. for example: reducing fees, imposing stricter environmental standards, excluding dangerous substances, simplifying criteria and linking them to public procurement policy and other european union policies. the scope of the revised eco-label regulation is also extended. the regulation is becoming more flexible and able to respond to new environmental challenges and priorities. as a framework legislative act, the eco-label regulation does not set specific criteria for products. instead, it provides for the establishment of environmental criteria for selected product categories, with the aim of being able to award the logo to the best products per category. today, we are faced with a widespread distribution on the market of environmental signs, images, texts, which can cause confusion to the consumer. from images of forests on containers containing dangerous substances, to claims of carbon-neutral food or even green cars. so the consumer doesn't know who to trust. the compromise proposal for a regulation on the eco-label helps to remove the doubts. before criteria and product categories for food and drink are established, a study on the added value that the label can offer will be carried out. following this study and the adoption of a commission decision through the parliamentary examination procedure, the eco-label logo could be awarded to products with the best environmental performance. i hope that parliament will give its full support to this positive package of proposals. the eco-label is one of the few cases of real and direct communication between citizens and the european union on environmental issues. the eco-label helps citizens to make better purchasing decisions and, by extension, to be directly and actively involved in the fight against unsustainable consumption. the european commission is able to accept the compromise package of proposals as a whole in order to reach agreement at first reading on both regulations. i would like to thank the rapporteurs again for their excellent work.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think the text which has emerged from the agreement between parliament and the council is very balanced. with this, we further strengthen our arsenal in the fight against climate change. i do not hide from you that the original text, the proposal of the european commission, had disappointed me slightly, not only because it was not ambitious enough but because it was not able to even correct the weaknesses that had arisen from the implementation of the eco-labelling system so far. the text we are being asked to vote on, however, cancels out my initial fears. in particular, i am pleased that a sensitive product sector such as food and feed will not be included unless a feasibility study is completed to establish reliable criteria. criteria covering the environmental performance throughout the life cycle of these products. i was particularly pleased to note that the commission will now be required to adopt measures to establish specific eco-label criteria for each product category within nine months of the start of consultations on eco-labelling with the council. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i would like to ask him to give us a clear answer to this question. the fact that the compliance procedure is not abandoned but is made more flexible is also a positive development. i am also pleased to hear the frequent reference to small and mediumsized enterprises, which, as we all know, are the backbone of the european economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, mr president, i should like to say that i expected the commission to take a more bold, more courageous approach to public procurement. i'm afraid the compromise that has been reached is beneath the circumstances. however, i will stress for the last time that the result is satisfactory.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i consider it my duty to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all those who have contributed to the text we are voting on today. it is a text whose main theme is the protection of individual rights. it is a further step, i would say a positive one, towards further developing mutual trust between member states in their cooperation in criminal matters. it is a step towards the unification of criminal law, but at the same time it is a step towards equality between the citizens of the member states, wherever they may be within the territory of the european union. i would ask my colleagues to have confidence in this directive.
mr president, i am not sure if the interpretation missed it. i heard paragraphs 5 and 16; paragraph 8 also states that only the children of ‘legal’ migrants would receive education. i want the word deleted there as well.
mr president, i should like to express the great surprise and disappointment of the disabled and the handicapped who were waiting for the opportunity to have a framework directive, as early as our parliamentary term, so that the member states could adapt their legislation and not discriminate against this category of people, who are represented by some of the major european trade union organisations for the disabled but who cannot express their own intention to be protected.
mr president, the new democracy group in the european people's party condemns all forms of totalitarianism and stresses the importance of preserving the memory of the past, which is an important part of our history. we are not in favour of the idea of a european parliament, but we are in favour of the idea of a european parliament, which is not a political body, but a political body. the evaluation of historical events is the exclusive task of historians alone. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the resolution by the committee on institutional affairs, which is a very important one.
in writing. the kke votes against the report. the eu of imperialist interventions, neo-colonial exploitation, the persecution of immigrants, the attack on the workers' labour, social and democratic rights, cannot implement equal social integration of immigrants, part of which is equal access to education for their children. the education of migrant children is not separate from the whole of eu migration policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens at work is a step in the right direction. it is characteristic and unacceptable that the report refers only to the children of legal immigrants. just as immigrant parents are the first victims of class exploitation, so their children are the first victims of class discrimination in education. the figures showing the migrants' school drop-out at the higher levels of education are typical. in the 2004-2005 school year, while the proportion of immigrants in compulsory education was 10.3% of the total, in upper secondary education it was only 4%. immigrants, through the class labour movement, must fight alongside the local workers, against exploitation, class barriers to education.
in writing. the report is a propaganda effort by the political forces of the 'euro-path' to convince the people of the alleged benefits of the eu. by promoting a constructed, virtually non-existent european citizenship, which is not linked to any rights, they seek to cultivate the idea of the 'european citizen', the 'european conscience'. their aim is the ideological manipulation of the workers, especially the youth. in this direction they invest in the 'european political parties', they call on the eu to offer them greater political and mainly financial support, so that they can play more effectively their role as agents of eu embellishment and support, of disorientation and manipulation. in an attempt to counter the ever-growing tide of questioning the eu's anti-people policy, the very fabric of the european union, they call on the eu to intensify its false propaganda and the promotion of the non-existent benefits of european citizenship. the workers are living every day the painful consequences of the maastricht treaty, the anti-people policy of the eu. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people, and it is not a political union of the people, but a political union of the people. disobedience, resistance, breaking with the eu is the way that benefits the people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european elections.
in writing. the commission proposal for a regulation on a community code of conduct is part of the eu's measures to intensify repression against migrants, to create a 'fortress europe' for the peoples of third countries and for the peoples of the eu itself. the eu visa code sets uniform, stricter rules for all its member states for the issuing of visas to third-country nationals entering the eu. it requires biometric data (fingerprints and all ten fingers) to be included in visas even for children of 12 years old! this information, together with a number of other personal data, will be entered in the vis information system, which the eu has already established and which aims to become the largest single database of personal data - an open dossier - of all third country nationals. the european parliament's report does not change the substance, direction and logic of the visa code, which is yet another tool for monitoring and tougher repression of migrants, within the overall eu anti-migration policy as expressed in the migration pact. once again, it is clear that the eu is the enemy of the peoples, of migrants and refugees, and that it is holding them hostage to the savage exploitation of capital.
in writing. the eco-label is another persuasive method of advertising products of dubious quality but of ecological contribution. these products will gain 'added value' through the trademark, the cost of which will be passed on to the final purchaser, further increasing the profits of the monopolies. the trade mark is also another method of raising and concentrating capital and monopolizing the market by a few multinational companies which have the means, the organization and, above all, the necessary capital to secure the trade mark on their products. whatever the safeguards for the process of awarding the label in a transparent, credible and impartial manner, it is well known that in order to increase profits, capital and big business always find ways to overcome them, as evidenced by the repeated food scandals and by the toxic products of the capitalist crisis itself. the eu is incapable of ensuring ecological protection because it seeks and serves capital which, by the unrewarding exploitation of natural and human resources and the use of modern technology in the same direction, destroys the environment. and the one who destroys the environment cannot be at the same time appointed as its protector.
in writing. the european parliament's group of the party of european socialists voted against the resolution because it proceeds to an unacceptable equation between nazism and communism. we condemn the atrocities of both nazism and stalinism. we believe that the comparison does not help us to understand the particular nature of each of these two totalitarian regimes.
in writing. no parliament, no parliamentary majority made up of the representatives and servants of the barbaric capitalist system can, by slander, lies and falsification, erase the history of social revolutions. it is written and signed by the people with their blood. no black anti-communist front can erase the great offer of socialism, its unprecedented conquests and the abolition of the exploitation of man by man. the joint resolution of the ppe, the liberals, the greens, the league of nations and the socialists, in a vulgar and unprecedented way, equates fascism with communism, nazi-fascist regimes with socialist regimes. in a miserable compromise they propose a common european day of remembrance for the perpetrators and the victims. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for the decisions it takes. ideologically, they promote capitalism as the only "democratic" system. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and the european council has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the kke calls on the working class and every progressive person to condemn anti-communism and its agents.
in writing. we condemn in the strongest terms all forms of totalitarianism and at the same time we stress the importance of preserving the memory of the past, which is an important element of our history. but we believe that the decisions of the majority in parliament are not competent to interpret historical events. the evaluation of historical facts is the exclusive task of historians alone. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution from industrial sources.
in writing. the resolution on health problems related to electromagnetic fields seeks to manage the effects and cover up those responsible, so as not to affect the action and profitability of monopolies, and not prevention and protection. the awareness and concern of the general public about the electricity, telecommunications and electrical and electronic equipment manufacturers, which are the main source of risk, requires investigations with questionable conclusions, since the companies themselves are essentially responsible for selling their products and services, and therefore the harmful effects are not proven. in order to tackle this very serious problem, which can pose a risk to public health, public and thorough investigations are needed into tumours, degenerative brain diseases, the overall effect of hpa on the homeostasis of the human body, etc. a concerted effort by workers is needed to reduce exposure limits and exposure to pmes on the basis of the precautionary principle. substantial and effective protection of the health and safety of workers, in the framework of the eu which supports profitability, and the competitiveness of capital by undermining public health, cannot exist.
in writing. pasok's central committee voted in favour of the alternative resolution to the summit report on the improvement of schools in the eu, which succeeded in deleting the reference to education for children of "legal" immigrants only and contained other improvements. it also states that it disagrees with paragraph 15 of the text and the link it attempts to make between education at all levels and 'flexibility' in the labour market based on the wishes of employers.
mr president, i would like to express my regret and my surprise that i have tabled an oral question with debate, which was signed by 48 members, and i should like to inform you that the signatures were collected in no time at all and that there are still colleagues who say they wish to sign it, but i am surprised that no one has answered me on this matter why, when, how and on what criteria it was decided not to have an oral question with debate. now all of a sudden i'm encountering another kind of earthquake? is it a new earthquake, is it a different starting point? i would therefore like to repeat once again, taking the opportunity afforded by the recent deadly earthquake and its victims, which you mentioned - and i would add the consequent cultural damage and destruction - that i would like to emphasize the european dimension of the phenomenon. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. thank you and i await your reply.
mr president, as we all know, international trade flows are showing a worrying downward trend. the immediate reversal of this situation is therefore a fundamental element of the desired economic recovery. it is estimated that the increased cost of borrowing and the reduced flow of credit account for about 10-15% of the slowdown in trade changes. the multilateral trade finance initiative adopted in london by the group of 20 is undoubtedly positive. in my view, the union must continue to play a leading role in the practical implementation of the london package in three areas: - first, the targeted intervention of multilateral and regional financial institutions; - second, coordinated public interventions at national level; and - third, the adaptations of the relevant multilateral rules. this message is addressed to the european commission to take appropriate initiatives.
mr president, a few days ago a large group of our fellow members of the european parliament visited the south-eastern frontiers of europe. what we saw and experienced in the area we visited did not make us proud at all. i should like to say that there are european citizens living on small islands of 120 to 130 people, and each of these islands receives 150, 200, 250 illegal immigrants a day, and all of them live in miserable conditions because there is no infrastructure. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the peace process, but i am saying that it should be involved in the peace process, and that it should be involved in the peace process. i have therefore considered it my duty to bring this to your attention, mr president, and i hope that you will take action.
mr president, i too will speak on the same subject, namely the turnout in the forthcoming european elections, which is not expected to be that high. the reasons include the election campaign organised by parliament, which is not spectacular enough, but above all the attacks on the conquest of the european union, the social market economy, the model that has been developed with so many struggles and is bearing fruit for the workers in the european union. the citizens look with a negative eye on developments which are not designed to be pleasant and satisfactory. it is therefore a pity that we are here today to have differences on matters which should unite us in the interests of the citizens of europe.
member of the commission. − madam president, i could not agree more with the rapporteur, whom i would like to congratulate on the swift and efficient work done. we are facing here an obstacle to freedom of movement because, if you punish citizens on their phone bill when they cross a border, that is frankly not the internal market we strive for and that we wish to construct. so in order to give this freedom of movement to our citizens we have to get rid of those obstacles. those obstacles concern a lot of people. there are roughly 150 million citizens in the european union who use their mobile phone at least once per year for roaming while they are abroad, and they have to pay the price. it is the students, the travellers and the holidaymakers, but it is also the cross-border workers, the journalists and the businesspeople who are handicapped because of very high charges for communication. that is why i thank the european parliament for having so swiftly responded to the commission’s proposal. i think we have managed to get a proposal put into practice in the shortest ever time in the european union – only seven months from proposal to implementation. that is a first of its kind, and it is a first of its kind in the interests of the european consumers. i would just like to say a few words about what the first roaming package has achieved. on voice roaming it has achieved a 60% lower price for the citizen and 30% more traffic for the industry. the industry has also – and this is interesting – seen a steady rise in the penetration rate of the mobile phones used by citizens. we now have an average penetration rate in europe of 119%. that is an absolute world record and, with the prices for roaming going down, that allows freedom to those citizens who utilise their mobile phone. it also gives good money to the industry because their traffic is rising continuously. at the same time, national prices are going down. since the barroso commission took things in hand, domestic prices for mobile communication have decreased by roughly 35%. that is as an answer to those who say that, if we bring down the cost of roaming, national prices go up. that is not the case. the statistics show just the contrary. now we are going a step further: firstly, of course, on voice roaming. i think it is very good that we are continuing to bring down the caps so that the competition of the offers can take place under the caps. it is very important that we add to this sms roaming, because every year in the european union 2.5 billion text messages are sent. the value of the revenue from this for the industry is roughly eur 800 million. now, who is sending the smss? mainly our young people: 77% of young people up to the age of 24 use text messages when they are abroad because it is easier and cheaper for them. so they are punished when they have to pay an extraordinarily high price with regard to the cost to the operator when they are roaming. good: we are bringing those prices down so that text messaging will become a normal thing if you are at home or if you are in a neighbouring country. so consumers will greatly benefit from this. the reduction – which will be voted by parliament tomorrow – means 60% for text messaging. concerning the per-second billing for roaming calls: simply said, do not make the people pay for what they have not utilised, only make them pay for what they have really utilised. we will also bring today’s hidden charge of 24% down, so that you pay only for what you have really consumed. and for data roaming, where we believe that this is a future development. but, whilst we want to have a future development so that you can download, wherever you are, a film, a newspaper article or a photograph to send to your friends, today you have shocking bills. i have received copies of bills where people have been in another country for three or four days and have to pay several thousands of euros just because they have downloaded their favourite television show or newspaper articles, which they are used to utilising. this will stop now, also because in the new regulation there will be a cut-off limit facility which, on 1 july 2010, will become a default limit to apply automatically in order to protect our consumers. so it is a great day for europe and a great day for european consumers. thank you to parliament, which has acted very swiftly. i think the people outside will understand that this parliament works for the citizen.
the committee on culture and education has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of children against the dangers arising from the use of certain dangerous substances. - the mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate both the rapporteur, mrs vălean, and the rapporteur for the first roaming regulation, mr rübig, on the excellent cooperation we have had in the committee on culture, where i was also rapporteur on a subject which of course concerns 150 million consumers, but also the telecommunications industry. following the successful implementation of the first regulation two years ago, the european parliament is now called upon to adopt its revision covering the prices of text messages and data. i would like to stress the benefits of the new regulation, particularly for those travelling for business. media professionals, for example, make extensive use of the 'upload' function of files they receive on their mobile phones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this into account. i therefore believe that the vote in favour of the report will be another victory for parliament in favour of consumer protection and will be another major step towards giving a new impetus to the internal market. finally, because of the consensus between the institutions, i hope and wish, commissioner, that the regulation will come into force from the summer, so that travellers will be protected from any non-transparent obligations and over-indebtedness on the part of companies.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall begin with what i always say when we discuss budgetary matters and budgetary control, namely that we are dealing here not with a technical but with a deep political process. the image of our parliament and of the european union in general in relation to the citizens is of great importance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to make use of the resources it has available. so it is a political process and it is very important to look at the general lines, the impression we make of the european union and not at some details about specific countries, without this meaning that we should not talk about all countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a much better result today and it shows that our reports have meaning and effect and we should pay attention to them. i would like to add a few words about the results of our efforts this year. i would say, as the rapporteur, mr audy, has said, that we have made progress, but that it is not yet enough. the big issue is the problem of the area of cohesion, but here i want to say that we socialists want improvement, credibility, efficiency, simplification, as the commissioner said, and here i think, commissioner, that we must go from 'evolution' to 'revolution' in the area of simplification, but all this not to abolish cohesion, which is a basic policy of the european union, but to make it better and more effective. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we must face the crises ourselves and not provide this opportunity to other intermediate bodies.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all recall that the pre-accession facility is the new financial mechanism of the union for the provision of pre-accession assistance for the period 2007-2013, which replaced the previous programmes for candidate and potential candidate countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the new mechanism comprises five components covering priorities defined according to the needs of the beneficiary countries, namely assistance covering transition and institutional development, cross-border cooperation, regional development, human resources development and rural development. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. - first, to align the projects financed more closely with the pre-accession priorities, in particular the environment, gender equality, nuclear safety and employment; - secondly, to avoid the mistakes of the past, such as those recently discovered in the implementation of the phare, sapard and ispa programmes in bulgaria and romania. we believe that this can best be achieved if parliament is to monitor the implementation of the new instrument carefully from the outset, and that is why we have asked for this own-initiative report to be drawn up. in its motion for a resolution, parliament welcomes the high rate of implementation of the mechanism's commitments for 2007, but regrets the significant delays in both the adoption of the relevant regulations and the implementation of the programmes launched in 2008. we also point out that the aim of parliamentary scrutiny of preaccession aid is not only to examine whether the available resources have been used in accordance with the law, but also to assess whether they have actually been allocated to the accession priorities and whether the desired results have been achieved. in our report we call for a better balance between projects aimed at meeting political criteria and those aimed at aligning with the community acquis, we call for a strengthening of horizontal and regional programmes. we also call for a special emphasis on tackling corruption, organised crime and unemployment, especially youth unemployment. we call for more resources to be devoted to strengthening women's rights and, more generally, equal opportunities. we also call for the strengthening of crossborder cooperation to further promote reconciliation and good neighbourly relations between the beneficiary countries, and between them and the member states of the union. in conclusion, we consider the preaccession assistance mechanism to be a rational and flexible instrument for optimising the provision of budgetary assistance to the candidate and potential candidate countries. but to be most effective, it needs to be continually aligned with the accession priorities and the social and political specificities of each country. to this end, parliament is committed to playing a substantial role in the implementation and adaptation of this instrument.
madam president, there is no doubt that in europe we are today paying the consequences of an anarchic, eccentric american, anglo-saxon model of financial market organization, which has learned to operate without rules, without supervision, without democratic accountability and, of course, has polluted the world and european economy. the texts we are discussing today and voting on tomorrow are building a shield of protection for the citizen here in europe. a shield that will protect him against this paradox we are living in today: that the money flows are transnational and the rules of supervision and accountability, where they exist, are national. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. this, of course, leaves two big questions to be answered. the first question is: why did we have to live through the crisis to react? why did we have to wait for all this to happen before we had rules? the answer will come from the people, by rewarding those who demanded legislation, and punishing those who wanted to convince us that self-regulation is the solution to all the ills we live with today. the second question is whether these texts which we are discussing today will be the only ones or whether there will be a total overhaul, a total revision of the legislative and regulatory framework. the answer to this second question will be given by us because, as co-legislators, we will be pressing for it not to be confined to the gauzès report on the rating agencies which did not see the iceberg approaching the titanic and thus created what was created, but saw very quickly that some member states had to be downgraded because they did not have 'apparently' sufficient rating capacity. we must look at all this and structure it from the beginning: nothing will remain the same in the european union after the current crisis.
the joint debate is closed. the vote on the report by mr jean-paul gauzès (a6-0191/2009) will be held on thursday 23 april 2009. the vote on the reports by mrs renate weber (a6-0247/2009) and mr peter skinner (a6-0413/2008) will take place today. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the next item is the joint debate on - report by mrs pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the package of medium-term financial assistance to member states' balances of payments (com (2009) 0169 - c6-0268/2009) and - statements by the council and the commission on the package of medium-term financial assistance to member states' balances of payments (com (2009) 0169 - c6-0268/2009)
member of the commission. − i am taking this debate on behalf of my colleague, mr almunia. the proposal on the table today concerns one of the core values of the union, namely solidarity. against the backdrop of the international financial crisis, the commission proposes further reinforced solidarity with the member states that do not yet benefit from the protective umbrella of the euro. the facility for supporting member states’ balances of payments is, by definition, foreseen for exceptional circumstances and was only used on a few occasions in the past. we do, however, live in exceptional times. as you know, the commission proposed last year an increase in the ceiling of outstanding loans that the community can provide to support member states’ balances of payments. the ceiling was raised from eur 12 billion to eur 25 billion, but a substantial part of this amount has already been earmarked. at the request of the countries concerned, the ecofin council decided to provide balance of payments support to hungary of up to eur 6.5 billion in november. on 20 january it decided to grant up to eur 3.1 billion to latvia, and the decision to provide up to eur 5 billion to romania is in the pipeline. already earmarked financial assistance under the regulation thus adds up to around eur 15 billion. there is, moreover, no immediate end in sight to either the financial crisis or global deleveraging, and ongoing financial stress in other member states could result in further needs for financial assistance. the european council of 19 and 20 march therefore welcomed the announcement by president barroso that the commission intended to make a proposal for increasing the ceiling of the community’s balance of payments support to eur 50 billion. the doubling of the ceiling will provide an important signal to financial markets of the european union’s strong commitment to helping member states under financial stress. the extension of the total possible credit line to eur 50 billion will provide a large buffer to cater for further possible needs for financial support. such strong signs of solidarity among member states should also help to calm financial investors’ fear of further financial market deterioration in the member states outside the euro area. by reducing the incentive for capital withdrawal, it would decrease the probability of balance of payments problems in the concerned countries. in this context i would like to express my gratitude and respect for the excellent spirit of cooperation at the european parliament and, in particular, the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the commission adopted this proposal just before the easter holidays on 8 april and only two weeks later you are now about to vote your legislative resolution and motion for resolution in plenary. thanks to your swift and efficient work, the ecofin council will be able to adopt the amended regulation on 5 may. the european union will thus be well equipped to react rapidly should the need for further balance of payments support arise. this is a powerful signal to member states that the european union is willing and ready to help and should be turned to in the first instance in case of balance of payments problems. this obviously does not exclude that a member state would also ask for assistance from other international organisations such as the imf, with which the commission has been closely cooperating on the latest financial support packages. i would like to conclude by saying that i agree with the statement in your draft motion for a resolution that the current international situation proves the relevance of the euro and that all member states outside the euro area should be encouraged to fulfil the maastricht criteria in order to join it.
the council stated that it would not make a statement on this. the debate is therefore continuing with speakers from the political groups.
in writing. the commission proposal drawing up the report creates a risk alert and information network between eu member states on their public and private infrastructure classified as 'vital'. this network is a first step towards giving private individuals, i.e. monopoly companies, whose facilities will be designated as critical infrastructure, powers in security matters which are currently the sole responsibility of the state. it opens the way for the labelling of 'terrorist acts' of mobilisations of the workers' and mass movement affecting any 'vital' infrastructure, including private premises (such as strikes in critical sectors - energy, telecommunications, etc. - or symbolic occupation of factories, businesses, etc., guarding strikes, mobilisations, etc.). it undermines the defence and sovereignty of the member states, abolishes the separation of their internal and external security and recognises the eu's direct role and involvement in it. the fight against the 'terrorist threat' is once again emerging as the eu's necessary pretext for completing its reactionary institutional framework which is essentially directed against the workers' and people's movement and shields the power of capital, further undermining the sovereign rights of the member states.
in writing. the eu is promoting the acceleration of capital restructuring in the mobile communications sector by extending the regulation to cover all services offered by mobile operators. the directive strengthens the position of european monopolies vis-à-vis their international competitors. it extends the regulation to facilitate takeovers and mergers that will provide higher returns on capital. the implementation of the directive has strengthened the monopolies. the alleged roaming pricing cap is circumvented by using minimum time pricing methods, increasing the price charged for the services offered and the profits of the companies, as acknowledged by the competent supervisory authorities. the planned capping of wholesale prices for other mobile services such as sms and voice mail will not benefit consumers but will further increase the profitability of capital. we are radically opposed to the liberalization and privatization of telecommunications markets, which leads to a deterioration in the quality of the services offered and the selling off of the people's property. we call on workers to express their universal opposition to the eu and its anti-people policy. to change the balance of power at the political level, and to express this in the next elections.
in writing. the report on the common migration policy welcomes the eu's pro-monopoly migration policy and the european parliament's contribution to it. the commission is also proposing to take measures for the next period against migrants in an even more reactionary direction. the report adopts the basic principle of eu immigration policy as a tool to serve the needs of the labour market, namely the profitability of european monopolies. to this end, it favours a policy of 'carrot and stick' towards immigrants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. on the other hand, it welcomes the attraction and legalization of 'highly skilled' migrants, the circular and temporary migration needed by capital, and proposes measures to integrate legal migrants so that they are readily available to their employers. the only answer to this reactionary policy can be the integration of immigrants into the working class movement, the common struggle with local workers against the anti-people and anti-immigration policy of the eu and capital, the demand for their rights and the wealth they produce.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, the decision that we are about to take is a very important one. the socialist group is in favour of postponement for four reasons of principle. the first is the credibility and the role of our own parliament. it is very important to say, from the outset, what parliament can and cannot do. what it can and must do is control democratically the accounts of the council, too, notwithstanding the gentlemen’s agreement that has been put in place. the second reason is interinstitutional equilibrium. it is important that we do not do something that we cannot do as a parliament, but it is also very important to say that it is our right to have a view, to have an opinion on the council’s accounts, when these accounts are operational and where these operational accounts must be accounted for. this is the democratic principle and this is what we are about to do. so we are not saying we want to do something else. we are saying we want to do our duty. the third reason is the respect and the preparation for the lisbon treaty. you know very well, colleagues, that, with the lisbon treaty, the common external policy acquires much more depth and much more momentum. it is a much more important common policy and we cannot from the outset say that parliament will not have a bearing on that policy at all. we must have the opportunity now to say what the role of parliament is. the last – and probably the most important – point is transparency vis-à-vis the citizens. our role as a parliament is accountability vis-à-vis the citizens. we cannot, and we must not, say to the citizens that the big common policies, like the external and defence policy, will lie outside the democratic control of our parliament. so for those four important reasons of principle, we believe that we must vote in favour of postponement.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the common position of the council of the european union, like the original proposal for a regulation from the commission, liberalises national markets for road transport, goods and passengers, and allows international community transport companies access to the internal markets of the member states. in fact, it is handing over to the large monopoly companies the international and domestic road transport. the proposals contained in the european parliament's reports are moving in an even more reactionary direction. they demand the immediate and complete liberalisation of markets, the removal of all barriers, restrictions and controls. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the liberalization of internal road transport of goods and passengers is intensifying the exploitation of working drivers who will be forced to drive continuously without any measure for their rest and safety, is eroding their wage, labour and insurance rights, is increasing the risks to road safety and is forcing the concentration of transport to international monopolies that reap huge profits with disastrous consequences for the self-employed and small businesses operating in this sector. it leads to higher fares, to a deterioration in the quality of services, and to increased risks to passenger safety. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the working class movement opposes capitalist restructuring, demands the creation of a public single transport operator with the criterion of meeting modern popular needs.
, president of the council. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this is important legislation and of great interest to both consumers and the transport sector. the eu has recently adopted similar rules for air and rail transport. the commission's recent proposals will complement this legal framework. in practical terms, this means improving the protection of all passengers, in particular disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, regardless of the mode of transport. moreover, it creates a level playing field for all transport sectors. it goes without saying that the czech presidency welcomes these proposals and attaches great importance to them. i believe we all share the objective that the eu has set itself in recent years, namely to strengthen the protection of passenger rights. in the context of the amendments which you voted on in the committee on transport and tourism, i would like to highlight two aspects in particular. first, that you attach great importance to the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. we naturally share your views on this matter, which is very important if we are to reach an agreement on these two important pieces of legislation at second reading. secondly, you have taken the position of sensitively aligning the draft regulations with the wording of existing legislation on the rights of persons travelling by other modes of transport, taking great care to adapt the proposals to the specificities of bus and coach transport or maritime and inland waterway transport, without departing from the objective of strengthening the protection of passengers' rights. we fully agree with the need to adapt legislation to the specificities of each mode of transport. as we all know, it is not possible to apply the same approach to different modes of transport. rail and air transport have their own peculiarities, as do bus, sea and inland waterway transport. there are also large differences within these sectors themselves. there are companies big and small, and the journey can take days or even just a few minutes. it is therefore necessary to find a solution acceptable to all, which ensures consumer protection without creating an unnecessary administrative burden for the sector and in particular for smaller players in this market. in the current economic climate, this question is of particular importance. we therefore appreciate your work on these issues. it's an excellent starting point. at the same time, it is also largely consistent with our view of these proposals. i am confident that we will be able to work together constructively on legislation that protects the interests of all stakeholders, while taking into account the eu's objective of improving the way legislation is made. in conclusion, i would like to express my special thanks to the rapporteurs, mr albertin and mr teychenné, for their excellent work and thoroughly prepared reports.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am always pleased to recall that i have been in these seats for many years and this gives me the opportunity to appreciate even more the work that the european parliament has done in this debate. that is why i would like to thank mr teychenné and mr albertini for the important contribution they are making to protecting the rights of citizens who are passengers in all transport sectors, because the need to intervene in the field of bus transport and in the field of maritime transport is intended to fill a gap, which, as all of you have pointed out, exists in european legislation. we have many disabled passengers, we have many passengers with reduced mobility for other reasons, so we also have the right to guarantee freedom of movement, because this is a matter of freedom first and foremost within our european union. it is not easy to set good standards, of course, but we are making a significant step forward today. i also appreciated the words of the council presidency, there are certainly still some reservations about the texts which the commission and parliament agree to adopt, but i also noted a general political openness on the part of the council, and this gives me good hope for the future. i am convinced that we will find, as we have done with the road transport question, a good compromise which will guarantee european citizens the possibility of moving freely and with adequate protection within the european union. i therefore believe that we are discussing issues that affect the lives of every citizen today, and that is why i am convinced that with regard to the bus proposal we should - the meeting of the tran committee on 30 march has already given me some encouraging elements - support the commission's approach to a wider scope of application covering all regular passenger transport services, international, national, regional, urban and suburban. this is in line with the objective of legislative simplification but also with the need to guarantee the same rights to all passengers without exclusion of principles. however, mr albertini, in view of the specific nature of the sector, the proposal leaves the member states free to exclude urban, suburban and regional transport services covered by public service contracts from the scope of the regulation, provided that such contracts offer passengers a high level of protection comparable to that provided for in the regulation. i think that is a reasonable solution which offers the required level of flexibility while safeguarding the basic rights of passengers. the liability of bus companies to passengers in the event of death or injury is another essential element of the proposal. there are too many differences in this respect in the community and this creates serious uncertainties for passengers. i would like to make a few points in this connection. first, this chapter does not deal with the question of insurance but only with the liability of carriers towards passengers. secondly, the bus company is not considered to be solely liable for damages and its right to seek compensation from third parties is not called into question. third, this chapter does not affect the amounts or the procedures laid down in the 2005 directive on insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles; and fourthly, the commission has not created a new model of accountability at all. what is proposed today is a liability regime which, taking account of the specificities of the sector, will be inspired by other modes of transport. as far as shipping is concerned, i believe that only one legislative instrument is necessary, even though there are differences of opinion both within parliament and in the council. let me emphasize one key point about the scope of the directive: compared to road, rail and air passengers, passengers travelling by sea and inland waterways are far fewer in number. of these, those using inland waterways represent only a small minority. it seems to me neither logical nor realistic to have separate regulations for sea passengers and those using inland waterways, especially since they often use the same type of vessel. i believe that the solution must be found in a single legislative instrument. on 30 march, a public debate of ministers in the transport council of the european union took place alongside the tran committee's discussion of the teychenné report. i am pleased to have had the opportunity to note that a certain degree of agreement between the commission, the member states and the european parliament on the objective of making an ambitious new regulation available to european passengers quickly has been a feature of this debate. in this context, the commission is naturally prepared to make all the necessary clarifications and improvements to the text to take better account of the specific nature of each type of service and thus provide the industry with the tools to apply the regulation with the necessary flexibility. i would like to stress once again the need to provide the means for the effective application of the future regulation. to this end, it is important that the national enforcement authorities report periodically on their activities, and that each member state may organise its national system as it prefers, for example by choosing whether to have one or more competent authorities.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the mr president, the proposal for a regulation, as amended by the creative contribution of the european parliament, is a satisfactory boost to the rights of passengers in maritime transport. i think, however, that in a future legislative initiative, a horizontal approach - a single legal instrument covering all means of transport - would be more appropriate given the need for combined transport. it would be systematically preferable in the future to table separate proposals on passenger rights on the one hand and on persons with reduced mobility on the other, because the individual regulations have a different objective and different recipients. finally, i would like to point out the repeated monotonous approach of the commission (this does not concern vice-president tajani) to issues requiring wider and more multifaceted study, such as maritime transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of the new fishing fleet.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs on their substantial presentation and their excellent synthesis of the many amendments tabled in the committee on transport and tourism. the european union has in recent years made efforts to improve passenger rights in all transport sectors, with the crucial contribution of the european parliament. the commission has recently adopted, as you will recall, provisions on the rights of passengers in air and rail transport. the commissioner said that today a major step was being taken to strengthen the equal rights of passengers using all means of transport without exclusion or exception. i would remind you that we have recently adopted, after difficult negotiations with the council, the third package on maritime safety, with seven legislative proposals, including compensation for passengers in the event of an accident. i would like to point out, in connection with the teychenné report, that a coherent framework for the protection of passenger consumers is being promoted, while respecting the interests of small transport undertakings, protecting their activity and competitiveness in the event of accidents caused by circumstances beyond their control or in cases of maritime transport affected by adverse weather events. it is also important that important areas are covered, such as the rights of disabled people, people with reduced mobility, and this is in order to ensure the principle of non-discrimination, which governs all our policies. the obligations of carriers in the event of delay or cancellation of a journey, the time limits for delays and the amount of compensation are also clearly indicated. at the end of this parliamentary term and before the european elections, our work on passenger rights is one of our most important achievements for the benefit of a people's europe.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, we are very pleased to note today that, by a decision of the european parliament, passenger rights are being protected in areas which have not been covered until now. we are proud to receive a leaflet at airports and railway stations with the european union's decisions on the protection of passenger rights. if the same is true in the other two areas, european citizens will realise that the european union is indeed helping to ensure a better standard of living and to protect them in their safety on the move. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the commissioner has therefore rightly spoken of a first step which should be improved, particularly in terms of the effectiveness of the contribution of the companies which are primarily responsible for granting rights to passengers. we should not condemn small businesses when they have the problem of taking over the transport service, and i am talking about the inland waterway transport which i have already occupied the commissioner with on other occasions. when they don't decide to take over the shipping line, how could they take over a service like this when they have to take care of passenger rights? we must therefore enable citizens to enjoy the primary right of transport and then to have the additional benefits of a passenger entitled to compensation in the event of delay. so first the trip, then the compensation for the delayed trip. it is clear that europe is moving towards a better future. that's the bottom line.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the debate so far has given me the good news that i will not be using the five minutes allocated to me. i am pleased to note that our interests are similar in protecting passenger rights and the future of the industry. we look forward to working closely with the european parliament to reach a final solution that will once again demonstrate to citizens and to the industry the benefits of european union action on passenger rights.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the citizens who are following this debate on passenger rights and the new rules we are about to adopt to strengthen a system of freedom which characterizes our european union are now realizing that the commission, the council and parliament, with the services which assist them, are not closed castles where we worry about issues which do not concern citizens or which negatively invade citizens' lives, but are institutions which have the interests of citizens at heart, the protection of their rights and i stress the defence of their fundamental freedom: we are not free if we cannot move freely from one part of our union to another! that is why, when i asked for your confidence at the hearing and then the vote i got from this parliament, i stressed that for me and for the period of work i would be doing as commissioner for transport one of the priorities was the protection of passengers' rights. i believe that today we have given a positive signal together, we have shown by our actions that progress can be made and that the european institutions are close to the citizens, that they are on their side. as was also apparent during the debate, there were no substantive differences between members of the various political groups, all of whom stressed, in agreement with the commission but also in agreement with the council, that there is this will to build, as vice-president kratsa said, a genuine 'people's europe'. that is why i attach great importance to a fundamental step which we are taking today and which will be taken with the vote tomorrow; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. every rule that is adopted is the result of a compromise, it is the result of the protection of different interests. i believe that once again the general interest must prevail, namely the protection of the freedom of citizens and the freedom of passengers in all existing transport systems, because it would be inconsistent to protect only those who travel by air, by train and not those who travel by ship or by bus. despite, i repeat, despite the differences that may exist between the commission and the council and also with some members of parliament as regards the regulation of shipping, there are those who prefer to have different regulations for inland waterway transport and for maritime transport. the commission has reiterated its position, i think it is right to have a single regulation, but it does not matter, i think we must take the positive aspect today, the political will is strongly emerging today from parliament, the commission and the council to guarantee the rights of passengers, and in particular those with reduced mobility. it is not only a matter of rights, of freedom, especially for disabled people, to give millions of passengers with reduced mobility the opportunity to move within the european union; it also means enabling these citizens to contribute to the economic growth of the european union, because millions of people who move bring prosperity, develop transport companies, create tourism opportunities everywhere. that is why i am pleased and i want to thank the two rapporteurs, as i want to thank the council and, of course, once again, as i always do, the commission services who have enabled me to put forward proposals to parliament and to the council. i said thank you with particular satisfaction because i believe that today the european institutions, taken as a whole, are giving a strong signal of attention to half a billion european citizens, who sometimes look at the institutions with suspicion, but i believe that today those who have followed this debate must reassert their faith and give confidence to the european institutions which want to be closer to the citizens.
member of the commission. − the commission is fully aware of the difficulties faced by consumers who are denied access to web sites or are discriminated against on a geographical basis when seeking to make on-line purchases. let me assure you that combating geographical market segmentation, be it the result of state measures or the behaviour of private parties, is a high priority for our policy in the internal market. practices such as those mentioned by the honourable member in her question deprive european citizens of the rights and opportunities offered to them by the single market. they are completely at odds with the freedom to receive services across borders, which is a fundamental counterpart of the freedom to provide services enshrined in the eec treaty. with the services directive we now have a powerful tool to substantially ease problems faced by consumers who face discrimination when they purchase goods and services across borders, including over the internet. for the first time in the internal market legislation, the services directive explicitly requires member states to put a stop to discriminatory practices carried out by businesses on the basis of the nationality or the place of residence of consumers. as you know, the services directive has to be implemented by the end of december this year, and, once the non-discrimination clause laid down in article 20 has been reflected in national legislation, practices such as those mentioned by the honourable member in her question will be unlawful. the only exception to this rule will be those cases where businesses can demonstrate that the different treatment applied to different categories of consumers is directly justified by objective reasons and therefore does not constitute discrimination. the commission is currently working with member states to make sure that article 20 of the services directive is implemented on time and is effectively enforced by national authorities and the courts. in addition, the commission published a report focusing on the cross-border aspects of e-commerce on 5 march. this staff working document on cross-border e-commerce is an initiative by my colleague, commissioner meglena kuneva. the report shows that, overall, e-commerce is developing rather well in the european union, while cross-border e-commerce lags behind. there exists a strong potential for cross-border trade in on-line commerce. however, this potential cross-border trade is failing to materialise in the face of practical and regulatory obstacles that effect both consumers and businesses. the result is a fragmented on-line internal market. this has been identified and is being addressed by the market monitoring exercise the commission has launched to examine the number of supply chains for particular retail markets. this work should allow the commission to deepen its analysis of the retail sector in order to identify practices that distort relationships between suppliers and retailers and between retailers and consumers and assess the necessity of further reforms of the relevant national or eu regulations. this exercise covers five specific sectors, including recreational goods such as music and books sold on-line and off-line, and will lead to a commission communication foreseen for autumn 2009. the effective and forceful implementation of article 20 of the services directive, together with the examination of further remaining issues in the context of the market monitoring exercise, should provide us with a comprehensive response to the problems or barriers emerging in the e-commerce context to the detriment of recipients of services in general and consumers in particular.
member of the commission. − i would agree with baroness ludford that, 50 years after the foundation of the ec and knowing what the founding principles of the whole operation are, this discrimination can take place. but the main reason for putting forward the services directive was in recognition that we had not successfully achieved in the area of services what we had achieved in the area of goods. therefore, when the services directive has to be implemented by the end of this year, article 20 specifies that any different treatment, such as the one outlined by baroness ludford, has to be directly justified by objective reasons. without going into the specifics of the particular case she mentioned, because that is a transport matter, which would be better for my colleague, mr tajani, the only reason discrimination could possibly be justified by objective reasons is that there would clearly be some additional costs. that would be an objective way of looking at it. for example, if you ordered something on-line to be delivered to you in dublin and brought from strasbourg, clearly there would be some additional postage and packaging costs etc. that could be an objective reason for saying that the price differential is such and such. but you cannot discriminate under any other basis. so hopefully, when the services directive is implemented, there will be fewer of these particular cases. at the moment, in the transport area, you must remember that transport is exempt from the services directive. but my colleague mr tajani and his people are considering some particular initiatives in that particular sphere also.
member of the commission. − alzheimer’s disease has been identified as a priority initiative in the commission’s legislative and work programme for 2009 following the council conclusions on alzheimer’s adopted under the french presidency, and the commission is planning a communication on alzheimer’s disease and other dementias, due for adoption later this year. furthermore, to stimulate coordinated efficient research in this field, it is foreseen that the communication will be adopted alongside the proposal for a council recommendation on joint programming for research on neurodegenerative diseases, including alzheimer’s disease. this follows on from the communication on joint programming in research that was adopted on 15 july 2008. in the field of alzheimer’s disease there is a need for accurate data, which can only be collected at eu level, to allow for planning and adaptation of health services at member state level. thus far the european collaboration on dementia project has provided accurate, qualitative and quantitative data and analysis of the burden of alzheimer’s disease in the european union, which has been published by alzheimer europe in the dementia in europe yearbook. however, the project finished at the end of 2008 and there is now a need to evaluate the options for taking this work forward. the open method of coordination (omc) in the social field provides a framework for eu member states to reform their social protection systems on the basis of policy exchanges and mutual learning. within the omc, member states identify common challenges and agree common objectives for universal access, quality and sustainability in health care and long-term care. in national strategic reports member states set out how they will develop their policies to meet the common objectives. the eu supports member states’ actions to address common challenges and objectives through the omc by facilitating dialogue about experiences and the exchange of good practices regarding health care and long-term care. it also supports the development of innovative good practice through its funding programmes. the exchange can take place in peer reviews with a limited number of participants focusing on a specific theme, or in conferences with wider discussions. following indications in the 2008 national strategic reports and the synthesis in the 2009 joint report, a specific peer review will be held in france next month on ‘alzheimer’s disease and other related diseases: how to cope with crisis situations or caring in the patient’s home’. this will be followed by a conference in september under the swedish presidency on ‘healthy and dignified ageing’, including a workshop on coordination of care for persons suffering from alzheimer’s disease and other dementias. in addition, the commission services are considering a possible additional conference to be held in mid-2010, the specific content of which will depend on the results of the 2009 events and other sources. furthermore, the commission’s disability action plan 2003-2010 contains actions which are also relevant for people with alzheimer’s, such as promotion of independent living, quality support and care services, accessibility of mainstream goods and services, and assistive solutions. as the ageing of the population in europe can be expected to lead to increasing numbers of older people with a severe disability and in need of long-term care, this issue is among the priorities for the follow-up to the current disability action plan. the commission is also working together with the member states, through the disability high-level group, to monitor the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, signed by the european commission and all the member states. the convention covers a wide range of policy objectives relevant for people with alzheimer’s, including accessibility, independent living, rehabilitation, social participation and social protection, and is implemented at national and community level.
member of the commission. − i do understand that the honourable member is satisfied with the comprehensive answer that i gave. regarding this disability action plan, it is of course a wider issue but it has certain aspects which are specific to alzheimer’s disease and which we shall take up in our action in this field.
member of the commission. − the question refers to the commission view on possible european economic and financial support to countries of eastern and south-eastern europe hard hit by the global economic crisis. i am replying on behalf of my colleague, commissioner almunia. the sharp economic downturn in a number of countries in this region can indeed have an adverse impact on the economies of the same european union member states, in particular those whose commercial banks have extended, often through their local subsidiary, significant credits to enterprises and households in the countries of the region. it has first to be noted that economic and financial conditions differ greatly among these countries. the commission’s response to the crisis could not, therefore, be formulated globally but has taken into account the situation of each country. regarding candidate and potential candidate countries of south-eastern europe, large amounts of technical assistance supporting structural reforms and institution-building have been programmed for the period 2007-2013 – eur 9.1 billion, as you know, under the instrument for pre-accession (ipa). the commission is also implementing a eur 150 million crisis response package, financed under this instrument, which aims to leverage in the short term an amount of eur 500 million in loans from international financial institutions. the package includes measures ranging from the provision of micro-credit and sme financing to energy efficiency and specific technical assistance for financial sector supervision and financial regulation. in order to further support the real economy, the commission, the eib, the ebrd and the council of europe development bank have jointly developed an infrastructure initiative that provides technical assistance and cofinancing to priority infrastructure investments in transport, energy, environment and social sectors. the initiative has been accelerated and implementation is now starting. it is a first step towards a western balkans investment framework that will also include investments in other socioeconomic sectors, like smes or energy efficiency. in the countries of eastern europe covered by the european neighbourhood policy – ukraine, belarus, moldova and the three caucasus countries – the european union instruments available to deal with the needs of the financial sector are more limited. yet here, too, the eu provides substantial technical assistance through the national and regional programmes of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument in support of the joint action plans under the european neighbourhood policy. in order to further help the real economy, the neighbourhood investment facility has been designed to bring together grants from the enpi programmes and the european union member states with loans from the european public financial institutions. this instrument has provided eur 71 million in grants in 2008, which underpinned large infrastructure projects worth around eur 2.74 billion. let me now say a few words about the support to the commercial banks in the region being provided by specialised financial institutions. here the ebrd is the most active and it is mobilising its full panoply of instruments, including equity and short-term debt. the eib has no mandate towards direct bank capitalisation in this region and its activity is limited to the sectors of transport, telecommunications, energy and environmental infrastructure. the mandate does not cover smes. much of the financial support to the economies of the region is provided by the bretton woods institutions, primarily the international monetary fund (imf). the imf is making available large amounts of financing in support of comprehensive stabilisation programmes. the commission feels that the role of the imf in fighting the consequences of the crisis is very important. finally, a number of pre-accession and neighbourhood countries have requested macroeconomic assistance from the european union. the commission is currently examining how best to support those countries that have also agreed a stabilisation programme with the international monetary fund.
i am very grateful to you, mr president, and to the commissioner for the information you have given me. i would like to ask you whether you think that these 71 million euros in loans to our eastern european partners are enough. i believe that the commission's communication on the crisis and its consequences in eastern europe does not deal sufficiently with this issue. you also believe that we will review the objectives, means and priorities of pre-accession aid, because serbia has already requested aid to meet emergency needs directly in its budget.
member of the commission. − those in poland who are saying what the honourable member has been referring to are absolutely wrong. it is not correct, and i can prove it with facts and figures. and before i answer your reference to the german shipyards (you were only mentioning the old ones), i would like to underline that the shipbuilding industry in other countries – not only in germany, but also in, for example, denmark, the uk, the netherlands or spain, where the public pocket was not so generous – was considerably downsized or even closed. we know a couple of examples where shipyards were closed. and if we speak about equal treatment we need to bear this in mind as well, and not only talk about emotion – and i am not blaming someone for having emotions; i can imagine it is a very difficult situation, but still it gives the wrong impression to say that there has not been equal treatment. in any event i can assure you, mr president, that the commission applied its rule in the same way to the german and to the polish shipyards and all the other ones that could be cited here. the same criteria are applied when assessing the state aid, viability being the most prominent of them, and the german shipyards – let me take that example – were successfully restructured and turned into a viable business, while the commission considers that the restructuring plans presented by the polish authorities will not ensure long-term viability. finally, mr president, a parallel should also be made with cases where the commission has not authorised state aid and has even ordered recovery of illegal state aid in other member states.
member of the commission. − the current eu competition policy towards vertical agreements is very supportive of internet sales, and i am sure that you are aware of that, mr president. hence, the guidelines on vertical restraints which provide for an interpretation of regulation (ec) no 2790/1999 make it clear that ‘every distributor must be free to use the internet to advertise or to sell products’. it is therefore clear that suppliers cannot impose restrictions on the distributors’ use of the internet – they cannot stop a distributor from having a web site, using whichever languages they prefer on that site, or sending e-mails to individual customers unless those prohibitions are objectively justified. even within selective distribution networks, used notably in the luxury sector, and distribution of complex products such as electronics – regardless of the suppliers’ market share – any restriction to on-line sales imposed by the manufacturer on its appointed dealers clearly infringes the competition rules. however, that does not mean any retailer can sell – on-line or otherwise – the manufacturer’s products to final consumers. a manufacturer is free to impose criteria on distributors for selling his goods on line in the same way as he is free to do so for sales in brick-and-mortar shops. such criteria may assist in building a certain image or providing a certain level of service. under the current rules, selective distribution is presumed legal up to 30% of the supplier’s market share, since it is considered that in the absence of market power it brings more advantages than any possible harm to consumers. the commission is currently examining the way regulation (ec) no 2790/1999 has been applied so far and whether there is a need for further changes, including in the area of selective distribution. what the commissions wants is the right balance between, on the one hand, ensuring that consumers can take advantage of the on-line marketplace, and ensuring that manufacturers are able to organise their distribution systems as they feel appropriate.
member of the commission. − i shall just repeat what i have already mentioned, that the commission is currently examining the way that regulation (ec) no 2790/1999 – which, as the honourable member rightly said, is 10 years old – has been applied so far. we have to decide whether there is a need for further changes, including in the area of selective distribution. it is important for the commission, in this review, to strike the right balance to allow european consumers to take full advantage of the internet to overcome geographical barriers, while at the same time allowing manufacturers to organise their distribution systems as they feel appropriate. in that context, the benefits that selective distribution brings to consumers, both in the on-line and off-line worlds, will certainly be revisited. mr rübig asked what we can do in the present situation. we have to take into account, after this review, what the need is, and then we will come back with our final conclusions and we will pick up the point that the honourable member touched upon.
member of the commission. − i will do my utmost. on 19 january 2009, the commission adopted a new temporary state aid framework which provides additional openings for member states to grant state aid until the end of 2010. this initiative was previewed in the commission’s recovery plan the previous month. the main objective of the framework is to limit the fallout of the crisis by facilitating companies’ access to finance. those measures are applicable to all companies – but small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) can access higher aid intensities, as they are clearly the most vulnerable when access to credit is tightened. in other words this measure is of particular benefit to smes. the most relevant for smes is the new possibility for the granting of eur 500 000 per undertaking to cover investments and/or working capital over a period of two years. that is a new temporary compatible aid – not by the way a new de minimis of eur 500 000 – and provided that it fulfils the specific conditions, this new aid is declared compatible by the commission under article 87(3)(b) of the treaty, in other words under a clearly very exceptional legal basis which is directly linked to the current financial crisis. that new aid can be cumulated with the de minimis, but within the limit of eur 500 000 for the period 2008–2010. in addition, under the temporary framework, member states could also grant state-aid guarantees for loans at a reduced premium, aid in the form of a subsidised interest rate applicable to all types of loans, and subsidised loans for the production of green products involving the early adaptation to, or going further than, the future community product standards. the commission has also increased the allowed risk capital – an injection in smes – from eur 1.5 million to eur 2.5 million per year, and a reduction of the required level of private participation from 50% to 30%. finally, while all measures adopted under this temporary framework still need to be notified to the commission, specific arrangements to ensure a fast adoption of the commission’s decisions have been put in place. so they are quick, effective and efficient.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for her really thorough answer. the european commission, the guardian of competition policy, is right to allow this temporary aid to small and mediumsized enterprises because, as we all know in this house, small and mediumsized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy. and a question that goes beyond the bounds of my first question: the european union is not alone in the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. have you developed cooperation to deal with infringements of competition rules in relation to third countries?
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether this exceptional grant also includes social measures for small and mediumsized enterprises. can these measures for workers be subsidised alongside the firm?
member of the commission. − that is an intriguing question. we are major players, looking at the playing field as a whole, but we are aware that there are a couple of other players, and that they are not always behaving as we want them to behave. having said that, mr president, there are at any rate a couple of bodies on which we are doing our utmost to put this very point the honourable member has raised on the agenda: during the g20 meeting in london for instance, where it was a very important point for discussion, but also during our involvement in the wto round; and i think it makes sense that we are pushing and just trying to get the point accepted by all of the players. i am proud to say that more than a hundred member states are involved in the same type of competition policy as the one we favour, so it is not only us. we are in close contact, sometimes via official agreements, sometimes via bilateral agreements, to try to get a line all over the globe. certainly with the new us administration we are just starting again, and we do have excellent cooperation lines with our counterparts in washington, such as the ftc and the doj. so that is the main issue, but if you would allow me to go off at a tangent to your question a little, it is also about protectionism: that would be the devil in our midst and we should fight to prevent it becoming a reality. for protectionism is outdated, it is incompatible with the single market and it is indeed a very bad tool for enabling our citizens, our consumers, and our business worlds to be successful on that fair level playing field. it is of course the member states that are responsible for efforts in the employment and social areas, and they have to take their decisions on how this option of opening up the state aid rules a little can be fitted in. the commission would also like to point out that the structural funds – and that was what i was touching upon in an earlier question when we were dealing with the polish shipyards – and in particular the european social fund and the european regional development fund, can be used by the member states to cushion the social consequences of job losses, and furthermore the use of the european globalisation fund can be considered under certain conditions.
member of the commission. − throughout the past year the commission has recognised that marine science and technology is a cross-cutting priority area. this culminated in the adoption by the commission, in september 2008, of the communication on a european union strategy for marine and maritime research. the strategy seeks in particular to foster integration across thematic priorities to address complex sea-related issues, boost synergies between member states’ research efforts, promote the financing of financial marine research infrastructure and build new governance with the marine and maritime scientific communities, particularly through increased cooperation between marine science and maritime industries. the following actions have already been implemented in the framework of the strategy. first, joint calls for proposals are being prepared and should be launched later this year to address major cross-thematic marine and maritime issues. second, steps have been taken to upgrade the bonus programme into a major community research initiative under article 169 of the treaty – one of the questions later on is also related to this issue. third, steps have been taken to progressively replace all existing marine era-nets with one integrated marine era-net. fourth, steps have been taken to explore new sources of financing critical marine research infrastructures, particularly through the structural funds. finally, two projects will be financed to foster cooperation between marine science and maritime industries as well as a stronger integration between the different actors within the marine scientific community. the implementation of the european union strategy for marine and maritime research under the current financial perspective will ensure the promotion in the coming years of marine and maritime research at community level, through the framework programme instruments. the broadening of prospects for careers related to the sea cluster, which is also part of your question, is not directly an objective of the research policy. however, by stimulating cooperation between marine scientists and maritime industries, as well as more integrated marine and maritime research, the european union strategy for marine and maritime research can indirectly broaden the scope of maritime skills and promote marine clusters. it can in this way indirectly contribute to the upgrading of qualifications and skills associated with the maritime professions. finally, in the broader framework of your question and my reply, in the european economic recovery plan last autumn, the commission proposed to member states and the private sector to increase planned investments in r&d. this was followed up by the spring european council conclusions, which have sent a strong message on the need for stepping up and improving the quality of investment in knowledge and research for economic recovery. of course this is also very valid for marine and maritime research. it is still premature for any assessment on how and if the member states will follow these recommendations. one thing, however, remains clear: even in the current difficult economic and financial circumstances, we should not lose sight of long-term objectives such as sustainable development and the low-carbon economy. it is thus important to focus on so-called ‘smart investments’ which at the same time look at overcoming the crisis in the short term and at long-term possibilities and how strong we will be when we come out of the crisis.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his full answer and i would like to ask him whether the research programme can also include neighbouring countries and in particular countries in the mediterranean region within the framework of euro-mediterranean cooperation.
member of the commission. − neighbouring countries of course can be included. it is quite clear that the framework programme is open as long as there is cooperation with the european union member states. but i would like to be even more precise. we have quite a few – more than 10 – so-called ‘associated members’ of the framework programme. those associated members which pay the contribution have practically the same rights and responsibilities as the member states. for example, the western balkans, switzerland, norway, iceland, israel and some others are associated countries. so all these countries have exactly the same rights and obligations. for others, within our strategy we are trying to develop a policy, which we have proposed. we have tried to do everything so that sooner rather than later all the neighbourhood countries – depending on their ability and also on mutual interests – will become associated countries. this means in reality that when we talk about research the european union is much bigger than the union of 27 members.
member of the commission. − i can assure the honourable member that, with regard to the seventh research framework programme (fp7), the commission systematically collects and publishes, for all to see, clear and detailed statistical data illustrating the implementation of this programme. it is important to remember that community funding for research is awarded to beneficiaries on the sole criterion of the scientific excellence of their proposals. but even though no account is taken of nationality in awarding contracts, we do collect and closely follow the data on the geographic distribution of fp7 beneficiaries and their respective collaborative links. this gives us an important insight into the level and strength of synergies developed between countries as a result of their participation in fp7 activities. you can find all of this data, and many other detailed statistics about fp7 implementation, in the statistical annex to the commission’s annual report on research and technological development activities, which we submit every year to the council and parliament. more importantly, all of these reports going back to 1998 are publicly available on line via the commission’s ‘europa’ internet site. so what does this data tell us? i cannot reel off here today a long list of statistics, as we do not have time for that, but let me nevertheless give you some few highlights concerning the focus of your question: the relative popularity of fp7 research areas among the member states. information and communication technologies (ict), health and marie curie actions were generally the most popular fields among member states in terms of the numbers of participations in signed grant agreements. it should be noted, however, that their popularity is also a function of the size of the budget available to each of these research areas of fp7 and, also, the number and type of signed grant agreements present in the databases at the time of such assessment. generally it can be noted that the participation of new member states is stronger in the fields of security, socioeconomic research and space, and weaker, for example, in ict and health. in the country that the honourable member comes from there is a marked focus on ict, but relatively weak participation, for example, in health, socioeconomic research and space. concerning the response of smes to fp7, every year the commission publishes a detailed assessment of sme participation by country of origin as part of our annual report, which i have mentioned. our latest data on sme participation in fp7 indicates that a total of 2 431 smes are now participating in fp7 signed grant agreements. for detailed information i would refer the honourable member to the report itself. but, if the honourable member wishes, i could hand out some of the tables with the relevant information from fp7 here today, because i have them with me. the actions of the competitiveness and innovation framework programme are more policy-driven than grant-oriented. in particular the entrepreneurship and innovation specific programme (eip) serves mainly as a policy support programme. if we look at its main instruments, enterprise europe network exclusively benefits smes by providing information on access by different types of sme finance and identifying project-funding opportunities and helping to find technology and business partners. the eip financial instrument, which accounts for about half of the programmes budget, is also reserved exclusively for smes. by the end of september 2008, around 12 000 smes had received financing through the sme guarantee facility, with applications received from 17 member states. in addition, the first call for proposals on eco-innovation pilot and market replication projects was published in 2008 to carry out actions in the fields of recycling, the food and drink sector, buildings and green business. the 2008 call notably succeeded in covering the priority given to small and medium-sized enterprises. in total, 74% of all participations were smes. and lastly, the information and communication technologies policy support specific programme of cip launched calls for proposals for 2007 and 2008 with a focus on pilot project testing ict-based innovations, where smes receive more than 30% of the total budget. more importantly, this programme aims at opening up eu-wide markets for such innovations that are supplied by smes all across the european union. as with fp7 reports, reports relating to the competitiveness and innovation programme are publicly available on the europa website.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his reply: there's actually data on the website. i also thank you, commissioner, for the paintings you will be giving me. i would like to ask a supplementary question: can you tell us how many jobs have been created in the member states of the european union as a result of this action of programmes implemented through small and mediumsized enterprises? and have you calculated the increase in gross domestic product resulting from these actions?
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - the mr president, i would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur and the commission on the compromise. the main proposal in the directive is to extend the term of protection for performers and producers from 50 to 70 years, to create a fund for musicians, and to introduce exploitation or deprivation clauses in contracts. all of this is important, and we have discussed it in our committee, as was the idea of exploitation or deprivation, the simplification of administrative procedures and the harmonization of the rules in all the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, we are satisfied that the 70 years of age is numerically aligned with the protection of intellectual creators, who are also 70 years old. the extension of this protection period helps to promote new music producers and thus europe can become a global source of exceptional musical talent actively involved in artistic creation, securing jobs while at the same time member states have tax revenues and europe becomes a source of export of intellectual creation. i consider the whole compromise satisfactory and welcome the success achieved.
the commission proposal and the report, mr president, seek to make the products of art and human culture perpetual commodities. they are not intended to protect musical artists. with this extension, the only winners will be the monopoly giants, the multinational corporations of the music, entertainment and entertainment industries that will continue to treasure the human creation of others. the workers, the artists, human evolution itself will be lost. because, under the blackmail of the multinationals, the performers and the performers, in their overwhelming majority, are forced to give up all their rights in exchange for a license plate. the profits of the multinationals will be hundreds of millions of euros, while for the musicians a few dozen euros a year. at the same time, the big corporations will control intellectual production based on the law of profit. the commission proposal, which is supported by the major political groups in the european parliament, is a typical example of the nature, character and interests which the european union defends and secures. to ensure the profitability of capital, it turns everything from water to art, culture and human creation into commodities.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full, and that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. i would like to stress once again that the adoption of this directive will not affect consumers or cause a rise in phonograph prices. the aim of all of us is to extend the duration of the protection of family rights in proportion to the increase in life expectancy. copyright is protected for 70 years after the death of the author, thus providing some income for his family. the current protection of performers' rights in rem, which covers 50 years from the recording, is therefore a very short period. the compromise agreement setting the duration at 70 years would therefore be a positive one. in addition, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to draw your attention to the study to be carried out on actors, the possible proposal for a directive to be presented in 2010. i also believe that the performances of actors should be protected, especially in a time when artistic creation is important and where technological developments can help to secure the income of artists. in conclusion, i hope that the european commission will cooperate with the proposal for the new directive.
mr president, this report on urban mobility is an important part of sustainable mobility in europe and an integral part of the strategy for sustainable development and the achievement of the lisbon objectives. the challenge is to adopt innovative actions and legislative measures that will significantly improve the quality of life of citizens in the cities. it is a fact that the daily life of the european citizen is heavily burdened by the stress of transport, congestion, exhaust emissions, noise and environmental degradation. a balance must therefore be struck between the ambition to develop the common transport policy as a right to mobility and as an important part of economic development, on the one hand, and the integrated approach that will improve congestion and make a significant contribution to combating climate change, on the other. in short, it will promote more human living. we must rapidly develop combined transport and mobility and provide citizens with information on all urban transport networks so that they can choose. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very good and comprehensive report and ask the european commission not to cut back and to speed up the preparation of the action plan.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are investing 400 million euro in the second marco polo programme until 2013, and we are also investing a lot of hope and prospects in a more efficient and sustainable transport system, which will provide the european union with added environmental value, while combining economic, social and territorial cohesion. the results of the 2008 call for proposals for the second marco polo programme and the conclusions of the evaluation of the first marco polo programme have shown that the programme can contribute to a significant shift in transport. however, the objective set out in its legal basis, namely to avoid congestion or to shift a substantial part of the forecasted overall increase in international road freight transport in europe, will most likely not be achieved. to achieve the objectives of the programme, marco polo 2 must be given a more attractive format. the legal basis for the system must be adapted, and the audit procedures simplified and clarified. in addition, the financing conditions and the related requirements must be adapted to the actual objective, the changes must be made as soon as possible so that they are effective as soon as possible. we in the european parliament support and are seeking to facilitate access to the programme for small businesses, to reduce and simplify the ceilings for project eligibility, to increase grants, i.e. a programme which will be more functional and more effective. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i should like to begin by congratulating commissioner vassiliou on the initiative in the proposal for a directive and the rapporteur, mr bowis, on the excellent work he has done, and i should like to add my own best wishes for a speedy recovery. i know that it is not easy to reach a result which can further advance the issue of crossborder healthcare if one takes into account, firstly, the diversity of the social security systems of the member states, secondly, the different economic level of the member states and thirdly, the different level of health services offered in each member state. in this sense, the rapporteur has done an excellent job. the report we are discussing today addresses the mobility of patients, particularly for the treatment of illnesses in specialised medical centres, and it is true that it does not promote medical tourism, but it does enable european citizens to receive the best possible care, knowing their rights, without having to worry about reimbursement, since the member states will have set up a clear system of prior authorisation of such expenditure. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on this matter, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the report highlights the following issues: that the definition of hospital care remains in the member states; that the payment of costs will be at the same level as if the care had been provided in the member states; that the issue of care for patients with rare diseases is addressed, regardless of whether they are covered by the member states from which the patient comes; that the proposals for the establishment of a european ombudsman to deal with patient complaints are on the right track; and finally, the need for a campaign to inform patients about their rights is underlined. a number of issues remain open, such as: (i) further mapping of the cost calculation mechanism; (ii) the list of diseases to be included in the system; (iii) identification of prescriptions for medicines given that the same medicines are not available in all member states; and (iv) promotion of e-health. in any case, the whole project is going in the right direction and it is a pity that the socialists are retreating today. i hope that the discussions will move forward at a rapid pace, and i feel that by its contribution the european parliament is responding to a crucial demand of the times and of the european citizens.
, president of the council. the area of patient safety and quality of care is one of the main priorities of the czech presidency in the field of public health. we recognise the importance of continuously improving patient safety and the related quality of healthcare, including in the context of cross-border healthcare provision. the main objective of the draft council recommendation on patient safety and quality of healthcare, including the prevention and control of healthcare-associated infections, is to define an integrated approach that puts patient safety at the centre of high-quality healthcare systems by taking into account all factors that affect it. the initiative was born from the finding that the increase in adverse events is alarming across europe, with infections associated with the provision of healthcare being among the most common adverse events. this is a major challenge, linked to the growing expectations of the public in this area, the ageing population in europe and the continuing progress in treatment and medical science in general. infections associated with health care are also receiving increasing attention from the media and politicians. these are also the reasons for the czech presidency's decision to organise a ministerial conference on 'bacterial threats to patient safety in europe' in prague on 15 and 16 april. it focused in particular on hospital antibiotic programmes, the impact of healthcare system parameters on the incidence of antibiotic resistance and healthcare-associated infections, and on governance and accountability in this area. but back to the draft recommendation. the czech presidency is aware that the organisation of health systems is a matter for the member states. however, this initiative, in my view, appropriately stimulates further development of national policies towards a higher protection of the health and lives of our citizens. in general, the council agrees with the need for better cooperation and coordination in this area at all levels, i.e. local, regional, national and community, as well as the need to exchange relevant information. the establishment of an adverse event reporting system, which will be non-punitive, in order to encourage reporting intensity is therefore an important measure. the emphasis is also on further training of healthcare professionals in the field of patient safety, the development of common definitions and terminology as well as comparable indicators to allow for better identification of problems. it will also be possible to evaluate the effectiveness of measures and interventions to increase patient safety and facilitate the sharing of experience and knowledge between member states. the czech presidency is currently finalising the discussion of the draft recommendation in the council's working bodies and will seek its adoption by the epsco council in june this year. however, it is precisely because of the importance of the issue that the council has decided to consult the european parliament as well, since its opinion will make a significant contribution to the ongoing debate. i am convinced that the council and parliament share the same objective, namely to increase patient safety in the eu. in this spirit, the council will give careful consideration to the amendments contained in your report to the draft recommendations in question. finally, let me thank all those who have contributed to the preparation of the ep report, and in particular the rapporteur, amalia sartori, who has worked on this report.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like first of all to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for its work on this dossier, and especially the rapporteur, ms amalia sartori, for her efforts on what is a health-care priority of the highest order. patient safety is about reducing adverse events which occur in all health-care settings – in hospitals, in primary care, in long-term care or in the community. it is estimated that, in eu member states, between 8% and 12% of patients admitted to hospitals suffer from adverse effects whilst receiving health care. these figures are unacceptably high. they paint a disturbing picture that affects not only patients but also their families and friends. in addition to this, adverse events are a huge burden on health-care budgets and on the economy as a whole. health-care-associated infections are a specific example of a very common adverse event. the total number of hospitalised patients acquiring at least one health-care-associated infection in the eu every year has been estimated at eur 4.1 million – equivalent to 1 in 20 hospitalised patients. approximately 37 000 deaths are estimated to occur every year because of these infections. clearly, we must strive to improve significantly this situation. member states have all recognised the patient safety challenge they face and have taken measures to tackle the problem. however, we know that among the 27 member states there are varying levels of awareness, resources and expertise available to counter the problem. it is likely that patients in all member states are not benefiting from current research findings and the systematic exchange of best practice and expertise. therefore, i feel that patient safety is another area where the eu can provide real added value to make all european patients safer, while of course respecting member states’ responsibility for delivering health care on their territories. that is why the european commission put forward its communication and a proposal for a council recommendation on patient safety, including the prevention and control of health-care-associated infections. i look forward to hearing your views.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, the figures, as mrs grossetête and the commissioner have mentioned, are truly overwhelming and show that many patients are suffering adverse events in hospitals today, and the most common is hospital infections. it is clear that this number of infections could be significantly reduced and that there must be greater discipline in hospitals, firstly because there are visits by people who visit patients and there is always a risk of transmitting germs, and secondly because of the strict observance of hygiene conditions by both patients and staff, but also because of the continuous information and training of staff on hospital infections. but i think the key issue today is to collect the data precisely, because it varies from hospital to hospital and from clinic to clinic, even in the same country, to know for example whether hospital-acquired infections are more common in surgical patients or in pathological clinics, to know the type and resistance of the microbes, all of this data is very important to be able to get to the causes and thus be able to effectively reduce hospital-acquired infections. so we need to collect detailed data to address hospital-acquired infections.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, this council recommendation is timely, as it is absolutely necessary to take coordinated action in the field of rare diseases, both at european union level and at national level. although the incidence of each rare disease is very low, millions of people in the european union are affected because the number of these diseases is in the thousands. however, the proposal as it actually came to parliament was inadequate in form and could not lead to the establishment of a viable programme. this is because it does not describe, at least in general terms, both the required european union funding and the co-financing by the states and other agencies. this is not the way to advance some important aspects of rare diseases, namely the creation of networks, centres of expertise, disease cataloguing, data collection, required research and so on. the text calls on the commission to submit a proposal for the implementation of the measures five years after their adoption, which is a long period during which no practical action is possible, since no financing is provided. therefore, in my capacity as rapporteur, i propose to invite the commission to submit the implementation proposal by the end of 2012 at the latest, given that by that date the required data from member states on centres of expertise and expertise for rare diseases will be available. this proposal for a directive should make special reference to financing and co-financing, in particular in the following areas: firstly, the collection of epidemiological data and the compilation of a list of rare diseases, since this is necessary to obtain a clear picture of the field of these diseases in the european union. secondly, the creation of the networks involved. thirdly, the creation of new centres in member states which do not have such centres, in addition to existing centres of expertise, the creation of specific training courses in existing centres where practitioners will acquire the necessary expertise, the mobilisation of experts and practitioners to create the necessary conditions for the advancement of existing knowledge and for research into diagnostic tools and tests for rare diseases, in particular hereditary diseases. the council recommendation should be seen as a roadmap for creating the conditions for a useful role in the field of rare diseases. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas, which is being discussed in the committee on agriculture, is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. one important issue in the fight against rare diseases is patient mobility. the bowis report has already dealt with this, and i believe that the mobility of patients is entirely justified here, because there are no special centres and experts who can take care of patients in all the member states. it is therefore essential to provide for the mobility of patients as well as the mobility of professionals, some to recruit expertise and others to transfer the experience they have. finally, i would say that for rare hereditary diseases, research and innovation are absolutely essential to increase diagnostic capacity through various tests. most of the exhibition is about treatment, diagnosis, expertise, centers and networks. one aspect of this is prevention. prevention of genetic diseases can now be done by a combination of in vitro fertilization and preimplantation testing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report states that it will only be done in those states whose legislation allows it, that it will be done after free will and choice by people who want to follow this genetic advice and therefore i do not see it as infringing the principle of subsidiarity with regard to existing data.
the president-in-office of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the members for their comments, suggestions and observations. i was pleased to hear that, in substance, parliament and the council are essentially on the same page on this issue. of course, i can only agree with the rapporteur, mr trakatelis, that the recommendations concern diseases which, although rare, affect thousands of patients. i think it is important to say that in this area, it is precisely better coordination and cooperation between member states that can bring benefits to patients through specialised workplaces, where the economic benefits of the so-called economies of scale, which commissioner vassiliou has just mentioned, can be demonstrated. the council will of course carefully consider all the amendments proposed by the european parliament and, on that basis, consider their inclusion in the final draft recommendation.
member of the commission. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate today has demonstrated the high level of interest in this important area of public health. european action in the field of rare diseases is a subject which has won general consensus in all the european institutions, and i am grateful for the support of parliament for this initiative. rare diseases are clearly recognised as an area of public health in which 27 different national approaches would be inadequate and ineffective. this recommendation can address the particular problems of rare diseases and seek to improve the lives of those affected by them, by reaching out not only to the patients themselves but also to their relatives and friends. this will be achieved largely through the recommendation to member states to develop plans and strategies for rare diseases, but also through the creation of european reference networks. as for the proposal of dean trakatelli to prepare and present the report of the results of the recommendation by the end of 2012, we have no objection and will take it into account. allow me now to turn to two or three references which were made by the honourable members. first of all, let me refer to amendment no 15 and say that i wish to stress that ethical issues are outside the competence of the eu. this is particularly the case in the present case, due to legal differences in the member states with regard to screening and the ethical choices that have to be made on the basis of that information. there was reference to the need for funding. funding for the treatment of rare diseases is for member states to consider. the commission hopes that these proposals will help to support the importance of such investment, as well as helping to make the best possible use of the funds available through european cooperation. as regards additional community funding, the limits on the current health programme are due to the overall financial perspective set by parliament and the council. if parliament feels that more community funding is needed for rare diseases, then parliament must address these through the budgetary procedures. reference was made also by mrs corbey on the help we need to give patients' groups. the commission agrees with the importance of patients' groups. we work closely with them and in particular with eurordis. i recently hosted the launch of a book providing 12 000 patients' testimonials. that engagement of citizens is a vital part of work in this area. mr president, in conclusion i would like to stress that by improving patients' access to specialised health care, by supporting research to develop more effective treatments and by setting up cross-border cooperation we hope that patients will find the specialties they need more easily.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am very grateful for the comments of my colleagues, for the comments of the council and for the intervention of commissioner vassiliou, who has shown a very 'open mind' and is ready to adopt at least the amendment calling on the commission to submit the proposal by the end of 2012 so that we can move quickly in the field of rare diseases in europe.
in writing. i voted against the bowis report and the commission proposal because its very legal basis shows that economic interests and the uncontrolled market take precedence over patients' rights to better and more comprehensive care. this proposal cancels out the provisions for social europe and solidarity and will lead to situations where only the well-off will have access to the much-publicized crossborder healthcare. it will lead to the dismantling of national health care systems and will force patients to seek treatment abroad. health care is and should remain a responsibility of the member states. treating health care as a commodity rather than a public good is unacceptable. in addition, the draft directive proposes a system of compensation for the costs of crossborder care, which is unnecessary, since compensation for the costs of care has been established since 1971 by the regulation on cooperation in social security systems.
in writing. the anti-people policies of the eu and the urban governments are worsening public health services resulting in patient suffering, waiting, lack of various services, waste, non-coverage of the uninsured and immigrants, etc. the drastic reduction of social benefits, the commercialisation and further privatisation of health systems, the attack on insurance rights, make it easier for large business groups to extract huge profits from the golden sector of health. the 'movement of patients' directive promotes the single market in health care, the application of the freedoms of the maastricht treaty. the mobility of patients and health professionals to ensure the commercialisation of health. the reimbursement of part of the hospital expenses abroad is the trap for the diversion of popular consent to the commercialization and creation of multi-speed patients, to class discrimination, to the right to life. the safeguarding of patients' rights requires the operation of a publicly funded and free health system, which covers all health needs (specialised and non-specialised) of the entire population (regardless of economic and social status). only such a system, which can be developed within the framework of a people's economy, by the people's power, can ensure the quantitative adequacy and qualitative upgrading of services, effective protection of the health and life of workers.
the president-in-office of the council. − madam president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, this issue is now being addressed by the council bodies in the context of the negotiations on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets as regards marketing standards for poultrymeat. the czech presidency proposed a compromise text which received majority support in the council's special committee on agriculture. the text will be submitted to the wto for assessment in consultation with trading partners. if the result is positive and the european parliament also approves its report on the proposal at the plenary session that is due to take place, the compromise text of the czech presidency will be submitted to the council. formally, the council has to wait for the european parliament's opinion, although it may not take it into account in its decision-making. the compromise text provides that for fresh poultrymeat products within the meaning of this regulation, member states may lay down slightly different temperature requirements which shall apply for the minimum time strictly necessary and only to the extent necessary to allow for the handling and separation carried out in the processing establishment during the production of fresh poultrymeat products. we expect the council to be able to deal with this proposal in may and, given the negotiations so far, we expect a positive development.
the president-in-office of the council. - madam president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the indication of the origin of poultrymeat is not part of annex 14 to council regulation no 1234/2007 and therefore not part of the proposal under discussion. the labelling of origin is dealt with by commission regulation no 543/2008 and is therefore the responsibility of the commission and is discussed through committees. i would also like to say that i understand this issue very well, because if you look at the threat that has been created by the so-called mad cow disease in the case of infected beef, if we look at the real health impacts on the population in the eu member states, then some diseases that come from poultry meat, such as salmonellosis, cause dramatically and significantly higher rates of health damage, and possibly even death, than mad cow disease did in its time. on the other hand, i would like to stress once again that the designation of origin is the responsibility of the commission and that we should not forget that, of course, tracing the place of origin of poultry is much more complicated than that of bovine animals. nor should we get into a situation where the attempt to protect consumers to the extent that all doubts and all potential risks are absolutely eliminated leads to a system that is so administratively complicated that it leads to a significant increase in food prices. i would like to reiterate that the key responsibility for the compulsory indication of the origin of poultrymeat lies with the commission, not the council.
the president-in-office of the council. − if you have madam president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the european council agreed last december on a plan for the economic recovery of europe. the plan contains specific measures to support smes, the most important of which are measures aimed at improving access to finance for smes and reducing the administrative burden on business. the european council also expressed support for the increase in the european investment bank's interventions between 2008 and 2011, in particular for loans to smes, which represents an increase of eur 10 billion over current lending to the sector. the european council also supported the temporary exceedance of the de minimis threshold for two years in the case of state aid up to eur 500 000 and the adjustment of the state aid framework necessary to increase support for enterprises, in particular smes. the european council also called for the use of accelerated procedures for public procurement, which are permitted by european community law, and for a reduction in the administrative burden on businesses. the european council also supported the full implementation of the commission's action plan on the small business act, which the council adopted on 1 december 2008. the small business act action plan should help smes in times of economic downturn by improving access to finance, reducing administrative burdens and supporting smes to reap the benefits of the internal market and by increasing their competitiveness in foreign markets. on 5 march, the council concluded that this action plan should be fully and rapidly implemented at community and national level, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. in addition, the council reiterated the importance of further improving access to finance - i.e. loans, guarantees, mezzanine financing, etc. - and to risk capital for innovative start-ups and for smes, taking into account the consequences of the current financial crisis. in particular, market access for smes should be strengthened through greater use of market and sector-specific monitoring to identify and address barriers in the internal market. accounting requirements and procedures for the setting-up of new enterprises should be substantially simplified and accelerated. the european council, at its meeting on 19 and 20 march, agreed on a number of measures, namely: removing existing barriers and preventing new ones from emerging and achieving a fully functioning internal market; further reducing administrative burdens; improving the framework conditions for industry in order to maintain a strong industrial base for business with a particular focus on smes and innovation; promoting partnerships between business, research, education and training; and improving the quality of investment in research, knowledge and training. i would also inform the honourable member that on 10 march 2009 the council reached a political agreement that, following the amendment of directive 2006/112/ec, all member states should be able to apply reduced rates of value added tax on a permanent basis to a number of labour-intensive services which are usually provided mainly by small enterprises. among other legislative proposals based on the small business act, the council should adopt a regulation on the statute for a european private company, which will facilitate cross-border business activities for smes. the council will also consider the revision of the late payments directive, which aims to ensure that smes are the ones to be paid on time for all commercial transactions. as regards the better regulation agenda, the commission presented last year 11 new accelerated measures to reduce the administrative burden on businesses, with the aim of achieving a 25% reduction in the current administrative burden caused by eu legislation by 2012. this is estimated to bring cost savings of around eur 30 billion, with smes benefiting the most. on 10 march this year, the council invited the commission to propose new concrete measures to reduce the burden for each of the 13 key priority areas of the action plan. the adoption of the simplification proposals for the third and sixth merger and division directives at first reading in the european parliament, as well as the approved revisions of the fourth and seventh directives, are concrete steps in this regard. however, this important work should continue with the aim of achieving a 25% reduction in administrative burden and the commission should complete the review of all existing legislation as soon as possible.
madam president, i thank the minister for his reply which was a complete list of the measures planned. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. and it is at this point that i would like to know from the minister whether we have data on the creation of new businesses alongside data on businesses that disappear. i would be interested in having those comparative elements, if not today, in a subsequent reply.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, friday 24 april 2009, at noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the next item is the report by mrs sarah ludford (a6-0222/2009), on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the shaping of the image of a person, in particular on the basis of racial or ethnic origin, in the context of counter-terrorism, law enforcement, immigration control, customs and border controls [2008/2020ini (iii)).
member of the commission. − madam president, on behalf of the commission i would like to welcome this initiative by parliament to bring the issue of profiling, notably on the basis of ethnicity and race, in counterterrorism, law enforcement, immigration, customs and border control, to the centre of attention at european level. the ludford report represents a very good platform that contributes further to this issue by launching a broad discussion and suggesting how to tackle this problem. i want to underline that already existing data protection legislation ensures a high level of protection of personal data – including sensitive data such as information on ethnicity or race – and applies regardless of the technology used. therefore, it is obvious that general data protection principles apply to profiling as one of the ways of data processing as well. the commission strongly believes that unjustified or unnecessary ethnic profiling is an unfair and prohibited practice, even when this is done for law-enforcement purposes or in connection with immigration, customs and border control, and is contrary to the fundamental values of the european union. under important instruments proposed by the commission – like the schengen border code, eurodac, sis, vis – the use of unjustified ethnic profiling techniques is not authorised. for example, as regards border controls, the provisions of article 6 of the schengen borders code require that border guards execute checks with no discrimination against travellers on grounds of racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief. i would also like to mention the activities of the fundamental rights agency in this field. the agency is about to present a good practices handbook for combating and preventing ethnic profiling. the commission supports the inclusion in the 2010 work programme of the agency of joint training with frontex, where the said handbook could be used. the commission also supports the inclusion in the 2010 work programme of the agency of a project on implementing article 6 of the schengen border code that aims at collecting data. finally, the commission welcomes the minorities and discrimination survey that was presented yesterday. the sections on law enforcement and border control provide us with further and recent data on experiences of ethnic profiling. the commission will, of course, carefully study the results of the minorities and discrimination survey, which will be published chapter by chapter through the year. but already now we can conclude that racism and xenophobia are still persistent phenomena in the european union and that they affect the lives of members of ethnic minorities. the commission agrees with the draft report that processing of data for statistical purposes, including ethnicity, race or origin, could be used to identify indirect discrimination or unjustified law enforcement practices. however, this angle has to be properly assessed. therefore, the commission is looking into the opportunity to ask the article 29 data protection working party to prepare an opinion on the processing of personal data for statistical purposes, including ethnicity, race or origin. the commission is also following closely the activities of the council of europe on the draft recommendation on profiling. the commission is about to launch a request to the council for a mandate to be authorised to negotiate this draft recommendation. as regards the need for a legal framework to define profiling, the commission believes that the relevant eu legislation on border management and data protection is adequate to protect fundamental rights. indeed, it requires that any processing activity has to be grounded on a specific, recognised legal basis and respect particularly the principles of necessity, proportionality, purpose limitation and accuracy. it is subject to supervision by independent public authorities. currently the framework also contains strict rules relating to the processing of sensitive personal data or automated decisions. all these principles also apply to profiling as one of the ways of performing processing of personal data. the commission is committed – and i am personally committed – to fighting racism and xenophobia to the full extent of the powers conferred by the treaties, and this includes cases where racism comes from public authorities. the commission is determined to reinforce our policy to fight racism and xenophobia in the stockholm context, which should include tackling the issue of ethnic profiling. again, on behalf of the commission, i very much welcome the draft report, and i look forward to its adoption in plenary tomorrow.
member of the commission. − madam president, the interventions of the different meps show the importance of the issue of profiling and the respect of fundamental rights and the attention paid to it by parliament. the report gives an excellent picture of the questions raised by the use of profiling techniques, in particular when they are based on ethnicity, race, nationality or religion for law enforcement, immigration or border control purposes. the commission follows closely – and will continue to follow – the problems posed by the use of profiling in general and, in particular, in the sectors expressly referred to in the report. the commission is currently launching a consultation on the challenges posed by new technologies to data protection. its results should provide the commission with elements that will feed its reflection and guide it when dealing with the problems that profiling can pose in the areas of justice, freedom and security. the recent results published by the fundamental rights agency on minorities and discrimination in the eu, which the commission welcomed yesterday, show that racism and xenophobia are persistent phenomena in the european union and that they affect the lives of our minorities. the commission has to carefully study the results of this survey in order to decide the way forward. again, i very much welcome the draft report, and i am looking forward to its adoption in plenary tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, friday 24 april 2009, at noon.
the next item is the report by mr bart staes, (a6-0256/2009), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on statistics on plant protection products (com (2008) 11120 - c6-0004/2009 - 2006/0258 (cod)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, friday 24 april 2009, at noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
in writing. the kke did not vote for the report on eu ratification of the un convention and protocol on persons with disabilities, as it considers that the eu does not have the right to sign and ratify such agreements with the un on behalf of the 27 member states. the eu signature violates any notion of independence and sovereignty of the eu member states, which are members of the un and have the right and obligation to sign. in this case, the kke supports the convention and protocol on the rights of persons with disabilities and the obligation of states to implement it, despite the fact that this issue concerns the overall policy of capitalist countries that apply an inhumane policy towards people in need of special care.
in writing. the report deals with the method of eu law enforcement and intelligence agencies - modelled on their us counterparts - to classify and label persons as suspected of 'terrorist' and criminal acts, on the basis of their ethnic or racial origin, behaviour, political, social, religious and philosophical beliefs and social activities. the method is not new. the repressive mechanisms of bourgeois power have to present a rich criminal work against the communists, the social activists, who were baptized with this designation as dangerous to "public order and security". today, under the pretext of 'terrorism', they are once again emerging from the darkest periods in the history of bourgeois power in europe. although the report is critical of these methods, it refuses to condemn them categorically and to call for their immediate prohibition. on the contrary, it considers them legitimate as methods of police investigation, as long as they are subject to strict conditions and restrictions. there are no guarantees and no restrictions on such phasic methods. the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments to the report. it calls on the workers to rise up. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome.
in writing. the pasok parliamentary group in the ep voted in favour of the report on the western balkans because of its importance, as this report clearly underlines the european perspective of the balkans which is pasok's permanent position. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the accession negotiations are concluded in a timely manner and that the negotiations are conducted in a timely manner.
mr president, we are celebrating the anniversary of the accession of new countries to the european union and we are all very happy and moved by your announcement. i think that the commissioner, myself and many other colleagues, are thinking that one of the acceding countries, cyprus, is still occupied in the north and that foreign troops are there. the european union is called upon to help ensure that the acquis communautaire is applied throughout the island of cyprus.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for the opportunity to address parliament, in its final week, on the global spread of the influenza a(h1n1) virus. let me first brief you on the current situation, and then on what the eu has been doing to manage this crisis. the latest european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) report states that there are currently 94 confirmed cases of a(h1n1) influenza within the eu and efta countries, and 20 probable cases. most of these people have been to affected areas outside europe, but not all. eight human-to-human transmissions have been reported, in one instance even to a health-care worker. however, we may be glad that none of the patients infected with this virus in the eu has yet died. for over a week we have observed the spread of infections in mexico, in the usa, in canada, in eu member states and in other countries. in mexico the impact on public and economic life has grown to a serious scale. we appreciate and acknowledge the enormous efforts the mexican authorities have made to contain the spread of the virus and to help those suffering from infection. eu legislation on communicable disease obliges member states to report on such outbreaks and on the measures they propose to take to mitigate them. the ecdc operates the surveillance networks which follow the number of cases reported. we therefore have a fairly accurate picture across europe of the developing situation, and this provides the basis for responsibly taking appropriate and effective decisions on how to best make use of our limited resources. the worldwide picture of infection was severe enough to trigger the who to decide on 29 april to upgrade its pandemic alert to phase 5, recognising that human-to-human transmission had taken place in at least two regions. the commission has worked throughout in close contact and cooperation with the who. my services are working hard to implement the actions to take, as defined by the community pandemic influenza preparedness plan, in order to address the challenges posed by the current outbreak. the commission launched its public health operations facility on 24 april and since then my services have been at permanent operational level. the commission has called daily meetings of the communicable disease network of member states and of the eu health security committee since saturday 25 april. these meetings review the epidemiological situation, discuss and decide on measures and on appropriate legislative acts. information for the public on how to prevent infection and to make informed choices about travel has been discussed to ensure a coherent message from all member states, based on scientific advice by the ecdc, in coordination with the who. we decided to extend the surveillance for seasonal flu, which should normally have ended at week 20, in order to identify infections with this new flu virus. the commission adopted on 30 april a legally binding case definition on the basis of the eu communicable disease legislation, and this decision was published in the official journal on 1 may. since medical countermeasures such as antivirals and vaccines are at the heart of our public health response to this threat, i met with the european manufacturers on wednesday 29 april to learn the latest information on which products are in development, on timelines for new vaccines, and to see if eu intervention can speed up delivery. with the member states, we are examining how to best optimise the use of existing stocks of antivirals, using the coordination mechanism of the eu health security committee. i can also inform parliament that, following my request to the czech presidency, the health council met on 30 april and adopted a set of strong conclusions reiterating the need for a coordinated response to the new influenza threat. the council recalled the legal obligation on member states to coordinate their surveillance and response to health threats, and agreed that restricting travel to affected areas was not a justified public health response. however, the council also agreed that good public information was essential and that travellers should be able to make informed judgements. the commission is now examining a road map for the urgent implementation of the points included in the council conclusions of 30 april. these will include development of vaccines, vaccine strategy, guidance on best use of stockpiles of vaccines and antivirals, protective and preventative measures and public communication and information. it is clear that we all benefit from our integrated european economy and society. however, that benefit also brings a responsibility. it means that we must work together to take only those measures that are justified by the evidence. this is essential if we are to avoid a health crisis becoming an economic crisis as well. but we should not focus unduly on the negative aspects of these events. thanks to the preparation led by the commission after avian influenza a few years ago, the eu has the systems in place to respond collectively and effectively to this threat. i know that in recent times, as the european elections approach, this house has debated what europe really means for citizens. in these difficult days, i think we can see some things more clearly. europe means solidarity in standing together to face this threat. it means cooperation, sharing information, expertise and capacity so that we can act together on the basis of the best available knowledge. it means innovation, with european-funded research helping to bring a vaccine to production as quickly as possible. it means capability, through the european institutions enabling all member states to respond immediately and effectively to a shared crisis. that is what europe brings to citizens. so, yes, the situation is serious but we are better prepared than ever to meet this threat. and having seen the determination of the health ministers of europe last week – and all 27 were there – i am confident of our ability to respond in the coming weeks.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank you, mr president, commissioner, first of all for the information you have given us, which was very comprehensive, and i welcome the action you have taken. i would like to draw your attention to three basic points which i believe are necessary to deal with a possible pandemic. the first concerns the plans we have and which have already been drawn up by the council, the european commission and parliament in connection with avian influenza. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore like to ask whether these projects have been completed, whether the member states have embraced them and whether they are ready to implement them - because, commissioner, the weak link here is very important - and finally, as regards the coordination which you have already mentioned and which i am pleased to note that you are ready to undertake jointly with the centre for communicable diseases, in the whole of this influenza story. the second thing i want to bring up is the issue of antiviral drugs. there was an obligation on the member states to have a percentage to ensure adequacy. anti-viral drugs are for treatment, but of course they're for prevention, and there should be guidelines because they can't be used randomly, but they can be used correctly. and the third thing i'd like to raise is what a trifle would be, which is to find the vaccine for the new flu. this vaccine will be very important and i believe that today with the techniques we have, the companies could have it ready in three to four months. i would therefore like you to press for this so that this effort can be made. to have the new vaccine, which together with the vaccine for seasonal influenza - which you have rightly been spreading and want to fight for the scientific reasons we know - will be the best barrier to a possible influenza pandemic.
mr president, mrs lulling's report on the selfemployed is comprehensive and she has dealt with this subject so much that i think we need not speak further about it. but we must draw the attention of our colleagues to mrs estrela's report, which is of course well-intentioned in protecting women but is perhaps out of touch with reality because here in parliament we consider ourselves to be little gods and think that with our decisions we can do what we dream of. the problem is not to do what we want, but what is possible, what is really in the interest of women. we have a directive which concerns women only, because only they are able to conceive, only they are able to give birth, only they can breastfeed. so we want to put rights for men in this directive, whereas there is the other directive of the social partners on parental leave, which can cover men in the way that the social partners decide. we should not therefore sell women's rights in a unique period of their lives, giving others the right to profit from what women will suffer in their bodies, and we should not punish women for remaining outside the labour market because of excessive leave, which is not in the interests of any employer and which will wait until they are forty to hire them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 may at 12 noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the next item is the statement by the president of the ep delegation to the conciliation committee on the organisation of working time [2004/0209 ((cod)) ]
the council, madam president, together with the commission, bears full responsibility for the failure to find a compromise solution, and the reason is simple: why did you insist on accepting a compromise that would perpetuate the opt-out, why did you want to deceive and humiliate us and millions of workers by turning a temporary exemption - granted to britain in 1993 - into a permanent, anti-working class regulation. fortunately, the vast majority of the european parliament said no. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. mr špidla, you have no right to interpret and apply the decisions of the court of justice of the european communities 'a la carte', you must apply the case law of the court of justice of the european communities and initiate infringement proceedings against member states which have not applied the decisions of the court of justice for years. you cannot say that we are not doing it, because we are going to revise the directive. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the president-in-office of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, this has been a very interesting discussion for me and let me briefly respond to some of the suggestions. first, i'd like to say something that hasn't been said here, but it needs to be said honestly. doesn't europe have the highest level of worker protection in the world? i think it is, so if we're talking about some kind of attempt to dismantle that protection or to go back to the 19th century, that's not true. we're just trying to adapt it to the current economy and the economic situation in the world. we're not living in the 20th century. we live in the 21st century, we work, i don't want to say how long, but we work all the time. you see the cell phone, you see the computers. we all get emails every day, and we all get emails 24 hours a day, and at the same time, nobody counts how many hours each of us works. so this effort that we're talking about some flexibility here is just an effort to be able to match ourselves as europe to this global competition at all. you are right, mr nassauer, when you said that we should agree on the issues, for example on the issue of on-call time. i would say that in this respect the council has fully supported parliament and agreed that on-call time would be counted as working time, unlike the common position which said otherwise. we have even proposed to parliament as the council that this directive should only deal with the on-call time and leave the opt-out question for a later date, but without any reaction from parliament. mrs figueredo said that the council's proposals were making the position of workers worse, but i would just like to remind you again of the basics. the council proposed reducing the number of hours of opt-out from 78 to 60 or 65, but mr cercas refused. the council proposed restrictions, restrictions on monitoring and restrictions on opt-outs. the council accepted it, and it still didn't pass. mr andersson may be wrong in saying that the council was not prepared to accept the commission's compromise proposals. on the contrary, the council adopted them at its coreper meeting, so that the compromise proposed by the commission was accepted by the council, not by parliament. i would also like to say that i do not know who is talking to which citizens of the european union, but we also talk to the citizens of the european union, but they tell us that they want more freedom, that they do not want any more new obligations to be imposed on them, that they do not want politicians to continue to interfere in their personal lives. we are currently approaching the 20th anniversary of the velvet revolution, the end of communism in europe, and that is what people want to celebrate by actually getting their freedom. they don't want to be forced into new regulations and new responsibilities. mr hughes, i think i made it clear in my speech what the council was doing to help, so it is very incorrect to say that the council has not moved a bit. and when the rapporteur here said that he hoped there would be a change in some governments in europe, i can hardly imagine that if there is a change in the uk that the conservative government would have different views from the government of prime minister brown. so just to conclude, we are very sorry that we have not reached an agreement, but if you continue to refuse to see the reality of everyday life, that 15 of the 27 member states are using opt-outs, that at present there are simply not enough workers in many professions to cover these matters, especially in the new member states, then opt-outs must simply be a reality of everyday life by now. let us return to this question in 10 years' time, when the situation may be different in the member states. let us create the conditions so that member states do not have to opt-out, and then we may wonder if we will reach a compromise soon.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, arguments have been raised in the debate which have been used many times for good reasons. i think it's more than natural, because it was a debate that lasted five years, that affected us, and i want to thank everyone who took part in it very seriously. but the fact is, the result that we have is not a good result, it's not a stable result, and we're probably going to have to respond to it. i would also like to note that it is characteristic of this debate that it dealt with practically nothing other than opt-outs and perhaps a little bit of standby time. it did not take into account, for example, additional rest, changes in night work, etc. because really all of these changes, which were much more than just a question of on-call time or opting-out, all of these changes became, to some extent, hostages to two fundamental questions. in 1993, a directive was adopted which accepted the exception. this directive provided for certain types of revision, but not only of the opt-out but of the directive as such. in 2003, the european court of justice ruled that standby time spent at the workplace is working time. it's a decision that has a logic to it, and it's completely understandable to me. from that point on, the number of states using the opt-out began to increase rapidly. the reason is simple. in most countries, working time spent at work was not practically applied as actual working time and, once it had to be counted as fixed working time, countries began to opt-out in order to remain within the directive. ladies and gentlemen, as i have already indicated, the situation is complicated, it has its internal dynamics. in those five years of very deep debate, virtually every possible path forward was explored. i think, however, that our debate is not closed, that we need to look for other solutions, because the situation that exists now is simply not satisfactory. and it is not satisfactory for a number of reasons, not only because of standby time, which i personally consider to be the most serious, not only because of the opt-out, which is undoubtedly a substantial issue, but also because of a number of other reasons, such as night work, additional time off and a whole range of other things that can and, in my view, must progressively improve occupational safety and health, because this directive is a directive on occupational safety and health. and the organization of working time, as expressed in this directive, has this point of view, not just the universal one. ladies and gentlemen, it's just that the two co-legislators have not reached an agreement after five years of serious and lengthy debate, so we're at a certain point and we need to look for another way out. i'm sure the commission is ready.
the debate is closed. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the next item is the report by mrs maria panagiotopoulos-cassiotou, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the organisation of working time for mobile road transport operators (com (2008) 0650 - c6-0354/2008 - 2008/0195 cod) (a6-0120/2009)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the madam president, it was indeed necessary to amend directive 2002/15/ec and the european commission, following a report it was obliged to submit, proposed the appropriate amendments to help this sector, with a view to ensuring the health and safety of its workers, while at the same time facilitating healthy competition. the committee on employment accepted the opinion of the committee on transport and, despite my submission, rejected the proposal of the european commission, that is to say, it did not accept the exclusion of self-employed drivers from the scope of the directive. i should note that the 2002 directive provided for the inclusion of self-employed drivers on 23 march 2009. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states on the road transport sector. as regards driving and rest periods, we have had significant developments since 2002, because regulation 561/2006, which came into force in 2007, applies to all truck drivers and ensures that they have adequate driving and rest periods. the inclusion of the selfemployed in a directive on working time would therefore be a misunderstanding of the concept of selfemployed, because when one is selfemployed, one's working time is determined by oneself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. this would set a precedent for the possibility of opening up discussions on the integration of selfemployed workers into other sectors by limiting their ability to work as long as they want. the problem of selfemployment is not a new one, but one which is still very much in the making. it is clear that some workers appear to be selfemployed when they are not. the european commission had proposed that we should define criteria to enable us to distinguish between those who are not employed and those who are. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of employment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive on mobile road transport operators is implemented. the european commission is also called upon in our proposals to redefine the effects of the implementation of the directive. i call on my colleagues to reject the amendment to bring the proposal back to committee and to support the proposals of my group, which are also supported by the liberal group and the independence group.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reassure those members who have expressed some doubts about the text we are discussing. it is not road safety at stake at all, and i repeat, it is my priority to fight to try to reduce the number of accidents on the roads. i don't think we should confuse working hours with driving time. i fully understand the remarks made: the self-employed may work earlier, work later, be tired when they drive, but i don't think you can control a self-employed person in any job. of course the self-employed person is also aware of what he is doing, he can also load a truck and wait and rest for two hours, three hours, four hours, then he can also drive again in optimal conditions with regard to safety. it is very difficult to control any selfemployed person, any craftsman, any small businessman, who are the men and women who form the backbone of the economy of our european union. that said, we are concerned with ensuring the employment and safety of employees and of those workers who are apparently independent but are in fact employees. that is why the commission - and i think the rapporteur agrees with the commission - wants the work of 'so-called selfemployed' or 'so-called independent' people to be included under the umbrella of legislative control. i think that is an important signal, that this regulation is a regulation that responds to real needs, and i think it is right to stress once again how important it is to take another step forward. that is why i ask the socialist and green group to reflect on the remarks that have been made and to understand that the commission has made road safety a priority and will continue to do so, but this legislation does not affect road safety, but only aims to regulate better the working time of workers, especially those who work in the road transport sector, and to regulate time, to equate 'so-called selfemployed' with 'real employees' because in reality they are not selfemployed but workers who are in fact employees. that is why i wanted to reassure once again all those who had expressed doubts, because i believe that the text that can be adopted is a good text that goes in the general direction of the interests of the european citizens.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i thank the commissioner for his clear speech and for the clarifications he has given subsequently, namely the assurance to colleagues that his main objective is road safety while ensuring the competitiveness of the european economy and supporting small and mediumsized enterprises. i thank all my colleagues for their views and i would point out that this is precisely the debate we want to keep open by voting against amendment no 54 which rejects the commission's proposal. i call on all colleagues to reject amendment no 54 so that the debate can continue and we can help the workers who are exploited and are presented as pseudo-employed. we want to help to improve employment in road transport by fully guaranteeing road safety through the regulation covering everyone, and also working time through the directive now before us. i would remind my colleagues that i have sent them an article from a german newspaper in which it is clear from the examples that the danger of driving does not come from overworking but from the misuse of the time that everyone has at his disposal, whether he is employed or self-employed, which is not important. it is important that each individual takes responsibility for his actions and conducts himself in such a way that he behaves as a mature person who is aware of his obligations within the social whole. we shall not achieve this by putting obstacles in the way of work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, we are voting today on parliament's budget for 2010 at a particularly critical moment, marked firstly by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which we all hope, secondly by the great economic power that is hitting the european economy, and thirdly by the new regulations for members and parliamentary assistants. all these elements are integral to the european parliament's budget for 2010 and i believe that as members we must place ourselves precisely within these parameters, without experimentation, without eccentricities, without unnecessary expenditure but with logic and in accordance with the criteria that society itself expects from us. i think we are making a good start, because in the midst of the crisis the european parliament is setting a good example by keeping its expenditure for 2010 at a very realistic level - i would even say low. we keep our budget below the 20% threshold for administrative expenditure. we are reducing our budget for 2010 by 6.5 million euros compared to the bureau's initial estimates and if we look at the figures in total compared to last year's budget, despite all the new needs that the new regulations for members and associates imply, we have a very reasonable, i would say, increase that is well below 4%. the european people's party's parliamentary group, which i have the honour of being rapporteur on this subject, set a big target for the 2010 budget from the beginning of the procedure. we want to concentrate parliament's resources on those areas where it really has competence and power, and those are the areas which are linked to legislation. we want to stop having armies of people doing things where parliament has no say and to have very few people and resources where parliament can really make a difference through legislation. we therefore believe, and we will discuss this again at first reading, that these initial expenditure reflect this priority of ours and we agree with the rapporteur on his own emphasis on the issue of multilingualism and buildings, issues which we have always given a high priority to, but which are always in relation to the emphasis on legislation. i'll close as i started, saying this is no time for eccentricities and unnecessary spending. it is time to get our heads together, to get serious and to focus on the necessary and the essential. in particular, for these three large multiannual programmes such as web-tv, the museum of european history and the visitor centre, we want explicit guarantees for their progress so that the 2010 budget can continue to support them but always in the spirit of proper, serious and thorough control.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by welcoming the european commission's proposal to recast the energy labelling directive with the main aim of extending its scope to all energy-consuming appliances for domestic, commercial and industrial use, as well as to products linked to energy consumption. the directive is part of a wider package of legislative proposals aimed at promoting energy efficiency, a top priority for the union as it can play a key role in strengthening energy security, reducing carbon emissions and revitalising the european economy to emerge faster from recession and crisis. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their proposals, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, the pse secretariat and the itre secretariat, because with their help we have succeeded - i believe - in strengthening the energy labelling directive. that is why we attach particular importance to the provisions relating to public procurement, we attach particular importance to the introduction of incentives to promote the most efficient appliances, and that is why we want to strengthen the provisions relating to market control and surveillance. i shall only dwell on two subjects which have been hotly debated. the first concerns our proposal to include energy consumption in advertising, which has provoked a disproportionate reaction from the european publishers' association and from the owners of radio and television stations. i say disproportionate, because there have been extreme arguments such as that the freedom of the press is being curtailed, that advertising revenue is being reduced for the sensitive media sector and - finally - that funding for a free and independent press is being undermined. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that advertising of products relating to energy consumption should refer to either energy consumption, energy saving or energy labelling only when the advertising includes references to technical specifications or information. where advertising does not include such references, there is no obligation to refer to energy consumption. i have left the question of the layout of energy labels, which has emerged as the most pressing issue in this directive, to the last. this directive will not have achieved its objective, that is to say, it will be ineffective, if energy labelling is not easily recognisable and comparable by the consumers to whom it is primarily addressed in order to help them make the best possible choices. we now have a successful energy labelling model, the a to g scale, where a is the most efficient product and g is the least efficient. a scale currently used as a standard in many countries outside the european union. it is certainly very successful, it is very recognisable and it has contributed a great deal to energy savings. of course, he's got enough problems. the most serious of these problems, the main reason for these problems, is that the marking is not accompanied by an indication of its period of validity. when there is no indication of the duration of the label, when a product is classified as category a and remains in that category for its lifetime - at a time when much more energy-efficient products are coming onto the market - it is obvious that we are sending confusing messages. so how do we deal with this? by requiring the label to have a specific lifetime, for example 3-5 years, and after this period a review of the energy efficiency scale based on progress in the product category concerned. in conclusion, i would like to say, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that i am deeply convinced that in the course of the discussions that will follow, in order to be able to reach an agreement at second reading, we will find the best possible solution. a solution that will be recognised by consumers and will promote innovation in european industry.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is difficult. i thank mr ransdorf for his very kind words, but i think it is wrong to accuse somebody – industry, lobby or not – because industry provides jobs and creates growth. industry is also looking for more energy-efficient appliances to produce and place on the market. at the same time, ‘a to g’ is well known to consumers. there is a strong need to consolidate the experience of ‘a to g’ and involve industry, not by force, but by really involving them. that is what the commission is trying to do. in this debate there have been two elements that have been rather, perhaps, confusing. one is the framework directive, and mrs podimata’s report is exactly about this. i know that at second reading there will be a lot of work between the council, parliament and the commission to find the right balance between these two elements: industry’s drive and the positive experience we have with this energy label. the second was about the eco-design measure for fridges and tv sets. it is not a perfect solution, but at least it is a solution that brings these two products into the labelling scheme, because today we do not have any labelling on tvs, while the situation concerning fridges is confusing: every fridge is in a category. we have therefore proposed and agreed to this measure as a temporary measure until we have framework directives that establish clear rules. it is not because we have been bound by industry, but it was the best way to consolidate both approaches. it is not that we are seeking enemies: we are trying to consolidate the positive experience but also bringing in industry. industry is not fighting it, but should, i think, accept stronger consumer views sometimes and really see the benefits of this. the report does not at this stage give a complete solution. there are differences of opinion, but we are on the way, and, as always, the most complicated legislation is adopted in compromises and consensus. we will need to continue to work, but not to label somebody that is fighting against energy efficiency, because labelling is the easiest way to bring about our goals for energy efficiency. people make informed choices about their appliances in a way that corresponds to the global society’s interest. this is the best way, and we should promote it. i would be sorry if we ended on a sad note by saying we are on the brink of some catastrophe: no, we are working together. we would all like to achieve the same result, but at this stage we have not yet found the compromise that suits and brings all the potential together to resolve this issue. thank you for the debate. i know there have been different opinions, but the commission is committed to working further to find a speedy solution at second reading.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the madam president, i should like first of all to thank all my colleagues for their contributions, and the commissioner for both the introduction and the closing remarks. i would like to make two very brief remarks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy labels are properly used. i would like to point out that the a to g scale, which we all regard as very successful, recognisable and as such contributing very much to energy saving, is obviously having problems, and these, mr reul, as i pointed out in my introductory remarks, are that this scale needs to be updated. the main problem with the existing energy labelling is that it has no 'life span' and this leads to the situation you have described, namely that we have energy products on the market with the same labelling and different degrees of energy efficiency. the crucial issue is to establish a specific lifetime for the energy label - from a to g - and every 3 to 5 years, based on the progress made in the market, to update the energy efficiency indicators. i think that the conclusion to be drawn is simple. we all have and will admit that we have a tried and tested recipe for energy labelling which has become a model for other countries outside the european union. when you have a successful recipe - which over the years becomes obsolete - you don't update it because if you do and replace it with a new system, you risk losing all the added value you've created over the years by choosing energy labelling. the message that europe has been sending to consumers over the years has been: choose energy labelling a. we must not weaken this message by ourselves.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, since the debate was not held for technical reasons, let me say a few words before the vote. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i think that the council has done a good job of putting forward a proposal. with the help of the european parliament we are able to speed up the implementation of the directive by one year, extend its scope to stations in populated areas, strengthen the mechanisms for informing and monitoring the facilities and informing the public. this is a change that, if implemented, will improve air quality and significantly reduce the greenhouse gases that cause climate change. the commission has undertaken, following our proposal, to bring forward - after a certain period of time - a proposal for a review so that we have better technology which will enable us to achieve even better results in the future. the final compromise is supported by all political groups and i think it is a sign that we have done a good job.
in writing. i am voting against amendment no 54 because it is an important political message to the commission and the council. the european parliament supports the rights of drivers and rejects any competition between salaried and self-employed drivers. the proposal would exclude selfemployed drivers from the scope of the current directive and, for the first time in european legislation, would attempt to distinguish between 'genuinely selfemployed' and 'pseudo-selfemployed', which is however incomplete and may open the floodgates to the interpretation of other provisions of community law. it is a victory for road safety and social europe.
in writing. the rejection of the commission's proposal for a directive is a manoeuvre by the forces of the 'euro-path' in the run-up to the european elections. the kke opposed the commission's proposal from the outset, voting against it in the committee responsible and in the plenary. inform the workers, support their mobilizations. the exemption for the selfemployed serves only the interests of the monopoly transport companies, it harms the interests of workers, of the selfemployed, and it creates enormous risks for road safety. it will further worsen the working conditions of drivers, increase the hours of work-driving to as much as 84 hours a week and intensify the exploitation of working drivers to the limit. the mobilization of workers and the fear of condemnation in the european elections forced a significant part of the meps of the parties of the euro-road to vote in favour of rejecting the proposal. however, workers should be aware that the monopoly groups will come back to impose their demands finding the parties of capital willing to satisfy them. this conquest shows the strength and importance of the workers' struggle. we stress, however, that it may prove to be temporary if the workers' and people's movement does not organize its counter-attack, does not set the conditions for radical changes in the level of power and the economy.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes is aimed more at completing the internal market, competition and cost containment in the field of research than at protecting animals. the multinationals are demanding ever greater profits from research. the animals used in it are usually slaughtered and tortured for the sake of increasing profits rather than serving scientific needs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare provisions are respected. research requires experiments to address important public health problems and many still incurable diseases. animals are often essential to these investigations. the protection of animals, however, like the protection of public health, requires a fight against monopolies, against the power of capital which patents medicines in order to secure huge profits from the commercialization of health. a struggle to free research from the shackles of capital and to use the scientific findings of research to meet the needs of the people.
in writing. the infamous directive, which was advertised by various forces as punishing shipping companies for marine pollution and protecting the environment, has turned out to be just the opposite. it protects shipping from sanctions. even this inadequate commission proposal has been left empty of substance, following the european parliament's proposal not to punish minor discharges of substances at sea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the inhabitants of santorini, for example, who in their protests against the wreck of the sea diamond which remains in the waters of the island to this day, have had enough of the eu and the nd government's responses - the same as pasok claimed for similar situations as for the sea diamond etc. - that the shipwrecks allegedly cause no pollution! the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work and the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the european union summit on 18 june 2009 can only add new woes for the working class and the popular strata, new subsidies and support for the european union's monopoly groups. the european union and the governments of the member states are steadily implementing the interests of capital, the capitalist crisis will be paid for by the workers. the facts are known: mass layoffs, a vertical increase in unemployment, drastic cuts in wages and pensions, new tax incentives, the abolition of the eight-hour day, the division of working time into active and inactive hours, the increase in unpaid working time and the weekly working time to 78 hours, the widespread application of flexicurity, i.e. flexible working relationships, temporary part-time work, the reversal of unemployment, the striking down of collective agreements, the further privatisation of insurance and pension schemes, health, welfare, childcare on the one hand and the granting of tax breaks and subsidies to monopolists on the other. the next summit on employment, on 7 may, is being prepared on the basis of this strategy, that is, serving the interests of capital. the european union is also increasing its imperialist aggression and its militarization. the lisbon treaty is being enforced against the will of the people and against the will of the people expressed in referendums, as in france, the netherlands and ireland. the anti-communist hysteria, the unhistorical and vulgar equation of fascism and communism becomes official policy of the european union and the member states targeting the communist parties in order to strike at the fundamental rights and gains of the working people. at the end of this period, the employees must give an account of the european union on the basis of their own daily life, their own life experience. what the working people have gained, what the monopolies have gained.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i think this will be my last appearance here in front of this parliament so i think it is the right moment to thank you. i would like to start with that because it has been a unique experience for me. occasionally we have had some differences of view but i think in general my experience is that it was worthwhile working here. despite all the problems at home, as well as in europe, in facing the current crisis, we have achieved results. i am leaving early and you are also leaving early because you are going to campaign. the presidency will meet with you here at the end of june. some of the people may be different but the work continues. once again let me thank you for the work we did together in the last couple of months, with you as the co-legislators. i think we did a good job. i am leaving but the presidency continues. a new government in prague should take office in the afternoon of friday 8 may after the last big southern corridor meeting ends. i have no doubt that it will contribute to a successful conclusion of the czech presidency. today i had the opportunity to spend an hour with mr jan fischer, who will be taking command. he is a committed european and a man who understands what it is all about. he will be ready to meet president barroso on tuesday in brussels, during his first visit to the capital, and will be working hard until the end of june. i have no reason to doubt that the european council in june will be held on time as planned and that the agenda will be professionally prepared. on the senate, many of you were talking about tomorrow’s vote. the senate is sovereign and i cannot determine the outcome of the vote, but we have worked hard and i am pretty sure that there is no reason for concern. this also goes for the presidency work regarding one of the most important outcomes of the june council, namely the text of the declaration for ireland. it will be prepared. on the question of whether we are talking with the others, the answer is ‘yes’, but we do not want to exert any pressure. i am not calling on the german constitutional court. of course, it is sovereign but we all believe that the outcome of the game will be positive. many of you talked about employment. in the context of the current economic crisis, this is the most important challenge for all of us. jean-claude juncker talked about this on monday – yesterday – before the ecofin meeting started in the eurogroup. we and the commission have been working hard since the beginning of this year and we will be talking about this later here today. i would like to underline the meeting which will be held in prague in the presence of the czech prime minister, the president of the commission and the social partners, as well as the two upcoming presidencies – sweden and spain – to discuss measures and recommendations. the intention is clearly to prepare professionally for the june council and the measures which can be taken, both at national and community level, regarding the employment situation. to mr rasmussen, i would say that it was josé manuel barroso who assumed the leadership and encouraged engagement in discussion at a time when many politicians preferred rather to fix problems at home because it is a serious challenge. (applause)i would not mix the eastern partnership with the challenges of employment. that is a strategic mission to promote stability, well-being and prosperity in our eastern neighbourhood. it has problems but we need to extend a helping hand and offer them help to fix those problems. going back to the june council, many of you were talking about the future commission. i said clearly that we, as the presidency, will consult the european parliament immediately after the elections. we have to wait for the result of the elections of course, but we will immediately engage in the consultation and can do this in the spirit, not in the letter, of the lisbon treaty. now i would leave you with my personal testament. we are talking about who is going to be the good leader, and i have no doubt that this gentleman is the real leader of the european commission. if you want vondra’s private recommendation – and i am a private man and just an ordinary senator as from next monday, looking forward to a trip to france because i have just read that the average time for sleeping in france is nine hours a day and i have been sleeping just two to three hours a day over the last months – i think that this is the man to lead us for the next five years. (applause)
president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as some of you have already said, this is the last time that they will be here in plenary, in a debate before a european council. i shall therefore not be able to see them in july or september, as the mandate of this commission expires, as you know, at the end of october. i would therefore like to say, once again, to all those colleagues who have served the european project, who are members of the european parliament: 'you can be proud of the work done by the european parliament'. if we take a look back at the work of this parliament, i think we can all be proud of it. the truth is that europe has been at the forefront of many things, whether it is the fight against climate change, the fight for a new energy security policy and everything that is now necessary to respond to the financial and economic crisis which, of course, is affecting europe very seriously. but i didn't hear enough today. this crisis is affecting the united states of america. that's where it started. it affects russia, it affects japan, it affects china, even. it affects emerging markets. and europe, from the very beginning, wanted to respond to this crisis, not just immediately, but also through programmes on the big issues of regulation and supervision. so that's the message i'd like to give you right now. some of you have challenged me in reference to the election period we are living through today. but i don't think i can and i shouldn't raise them now. the future commission must, of course, define its programme. but it is not for me to say what the manifesto of the next commission will be. so i take your challenge. i see it as a sign of trust. but i can't answer that right now. i believe that we have every reason to be proud of the outcome of this parliament's mandate. but i prefer to concentrate now on the european council in june, which has very important issues to deal with and which requires great responsibility. firstly, the question of the lisbon treaty and the transition we have to make from one mandate of the european parliament to another, but also the constitution of a new commission. it is an extremely delicate challenge - as some of you have said - since we do not yet have the lisbon treaty, this treaty which has been signed by the 27 governments but not yet ratified by all of them. it is not the fault of the european parliament. nor is it the commission's. the truth is that governments have signed a treaty that they have not been able to get final approval for. and because of this delay, we are faced with a serious problem of institutional transition. this is a problem which requires a great sense of responsibility on the part of all: council, parliament and commission. i therefore welcome the very wise words of the czech presidency and of the members who have spoken on this subject. we will have to find solutions in full respect of the existing treaty we are a community of law; we cannot suspend a treaty that is in force. in full respect of the law, we must find sensible solutions that guarantee the stability of the european project. and that is what i shall be calling on the heads of state and government to do at the european council in june. the other question we have to solve is the answer to the economic question. i think we must also recognize that in this case it is not responsible to present new programmes every day. this is a mistake. i believe that leadership is primarily an exercise of responsibility. it's not about, say, entertaining the gallery. it would be easy for the commission to come up with new ideas every day, knowing full well that they will have no chance of being put into practice. but we will not do so because we believe that our task as the european commission representing the general european interest is not just to play the game of ease, to make announcements, but really to propose measures and lines that have a chance of bringing europe as a whole together, the other institutions, the parliament and the council, and bringing together the european citizens. the commission has indeed made the first proposals for a european recovery plan, with the instruments we have at our disposal, no doubt. you know that most of these instruments are national, and in particular the budgets: they are national budgets. the european budget is tiny compared to national budgets. and some of those who are impatient, who are demanding much more from us, may be able to help the commission in the next financial perspective to convince the member states, especially where the parties voted for a maximum of 1% of the resources - the 1% club which has limited the financial resources. this would be an interesting thing to achieve in the next parliament. because we will act, i can tell you, as early as 2009; we will now present the lines of the financial review and how we will proceed in the future. but do not ask the european institutions for anything they cannot give you now. ask us what we can do, because - and i speak with great sincerity - particularly about certain criticisms which, i know, come from people who share the same european ideal as i do - i think it is a fundamental mistake to always criticise europe for what it has not yet done, when you know very well that if it has not yet done it is not the fault of the community institutions, it is mainly the fault of a lack of ambition at national level. it is not fair to criticise in this way, and it does not make it any easier for us to carry forward our european project. the truth is that the commission has made ambitious proposals, that we are keeping the economic situation under constant review, that we will make further proposals if necessary. but now we believe that the important thing is to focus on the execution - i said execution, implementation, not gestures - of what we have decided, because we also have very serious concerns about sustainability, because public debt in europe is reaching a really worrying level. the situation in some of our member states is very serious. we must therefore make proposals that can address these concerns. i also think we should highlight what europe is doing. i understand that, for matters of immediate policy, particularly in the context of the european elections, the temptation is great - especially for those who are members of an opposition party in their own country - to sometimes oppose europe. i ask you to be careful, because tomorrow you may be in power, and tomorrow you may ask people to vote for europe, and people will not vote for a europe which you have described as a wild europe. the people will vote for a europe which has the support of all the political forces of the right, the left and the centre which are reflected in the european project. that, in my view, is a great challenge. i am for a political europe but i am against political politics when we talk about the european project. and i'm against the abusive partitioning in partisan terms. the truth is that we can only make europe with the great political families. the commission is made up of these families: the epp, the socialists, the social democrats, the liberals and other independent groups. the commission will continue to present itself in this way. i understand that from an immediate political point of view, particularly in the european parliament, particularly in the context of the european parliament elections, we want, each of you wants to highlight your own programme, your own party. i'm a party man. i was elected to the portuguese parliament at the age of 29. i was leader of the opposition and i was prime minister. so i'm a party man. but be careful! european politics needs people who are partisan but who are able to go beyond their own party, who are able to form coalitions above parties. if we are supranational, we must also have a vision which sometimes goes beyond that of our own party. i would like to warn you against this, with all due respect, because i am well aware that most of you are now involved in a sometimes very demanding political election campaign, in which there are also national issues at stake. but i think it's important for the future. if we want to understand the great challenges facing europe, we must unite all europeans, from the left, from the right, from the centre, all those who share the essence of the european project, and not succumb to this push for artificial partisan dramatization, because in fact, most of the time, it is artificial. i can tell you that in the commission the proposals on hedge funds - which some of you have criticised - were the subject of a consensus in the commission between all the commissioners, members of the socialist family, members of the liberal family and members of the epp. there was no split on this issue. i understand that in the political struggle it is interesting to focus criticism on one or another commissioner, but that is not politically or even intellectually fair. in closing, i'd like to say that i'm growing more and more in awe of the founding fathers. the truth - let's be clear - is that the czech republic is facing a political problem. the deputy prime minister, mr vondra, has clearly admitted this, with great honesty. it is obviously difficult for a country holding the presidency of the union to have to face an internal political crisis and replace its own government. the truth is that despite this, we are achieving great results, thanks to you, the european parliament. i would like to say that it is also thanks to us, the commission, that we have made proposals. but it is also thanks to the czech presidency. we are finalising 50 codecision cases, some of them extremely difficult. we are able to do this at a time when the country holding the presidency is in the midst of a political crisis. i think that we should pay tribute to the institutional capacity of europe, which means that even in a situation like this the european council is able to deliver results. that is why, when i paid tribute to the czech presidency, and in particular to deputy prime minister vondra, i did so sincerely, because i know how extremely difficult it is - i have seen it every day - to work in these conditions and still achieve results. so here we have a choice to make. the choice we have to make is to highlight, while acknowledging, for those who are the most ambitious - of which i am one - that we have not yet reached the goals we set for ourselves. we must also highlight what we have done and what we have achieved together. others, on the other hand, focus on what has not yet been possible. the message they send to the european citizens is always negative. i've said it many times. the pessimism of pro-europeans is sometimes more serious than the euroscepticism of anti-europeans because it does not carry a message of hope for those who believe in europe. i would like to thank the vice-premier, mr vondra, for his speeches, the czech presidency and all of you for what we have achieved together for our europe, which is a great project of peace, freedom and solidarity, despite all the differences of opinion.
the debate is closed. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the next item is the joint debate on - the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the employment summit, - the report by gabriele stauner, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european globalisation adjustment fund (com (2008) 0867 - c6-0518/2008 - 2008/0267 (cod)) (a6-0242/2009), - the report by josé albino silva peneda, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the renewed social agenda (com (2008) 2330 (ini)) (a6-0241/2009), and the report by jean lambert, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the active integration of people excluded from the labour market (a35/06/2009) (a23/06 (ini)).
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. - the mr president, on behalf of the committee on women's rights, we have delivered an opinion on the report by mrs lambert on the active inclusion of people excluded from the labour market, and i congratulate her on her willingness to incorporate as fully as possible the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. gender equality and, in general, respect for the principle of non-discrimination are essential prerequisites for active integration into the labour market and the social integration which must accompany it. in particular, i think it is important to emphasize the support of family members of all ages, solidarity between the generations and the help to be given to vulnerable groups of the population in the difficult situations that a family may be in, so that it can - at any time - be useful to society without the difficult circumstances leaving their mark on its life. the transition from one situation to another is therefore very important and must be supported by the means available from the state, the social partners, the social partners and the voluntary sector, so that society feels solidarity and mutual responsibility for all its members. i hope that mrs lambert's report will give a boost to the resolution - as has been corrected by my political group - to include not only income support, but to include an overall support for decent living conditions covering both small and large participants and non-participants in the labour market.
member of the commission. − the commission is a full participant in the g20 and is participating fully in this process. i have already mentioned some of the measures the commission would like to encourage member states to take. it is fully involved in the g20 process.
member of the commission. − well, there is a treaty and the treaty is very clear. we know that there will be a new irish referendum perhaps on the lisbon treaty, but these articles are very clear on how the competences are divided in text, and the commission has no intention of writing a new treaty with different responsibilities. this is also partly the answer on using tax policy for creating jobs. as different countries are in different situations, a europe-wide taxation instrument will not perhaps achieve the same goals as in a particular member state. taxation instruments are sometimes good to really create incentives or develop the economy, but this is very much dependent on the situation in particular member staes.
member of the commission. - madam president, the commission is fully committed to helping to protect people from earthquakes. such protection should be part of an integrated approach to address situations that may arise from various risk causes. the commission has recently adopted a communication entitled 'the community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters', which covers, inter alia, earthquakes. the communication follows on from the actions undertaken by the commission itself in recent years, which are in line with many of the recommendations made by the european parliament in its 2007 resolution. this action shall in particular relate to the dissemination of best practices, the development of common approaches to risk assessment, mapping, training and awareness-raising, while seeking to improve the coherence and synergy of the existing financial and legislative prevention instruments, thereby enhancing the added value of european union action. the commission will also make every effort to mitigate the effects of earthquakes by encouraging member states to fully incorporate the common european design codes for buildings and public works, in particular european code 8, into their respective national regulations. the commission is looking forward with great interest to the european parliament's response to the approach proposed in its communication.
madam president, i'm sorry, but the issue remains. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to do what it did for the floods. what's the difference? i am particularly struck by the fact that this debate is taking place in the wake of the recent disaster in italy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you honestly think that the reference to the earthquake in the communication in three points is sufficient to compensate for the great need we have in europe for a communication specifically on earthquakes? honestly, i'd like an answer.
member of the commission. - madam president, the communication we made in february 2009 addresses the whole issue in an integrated way, regardless of the source of the risks. we believe this approach is the best. as for the floods, we have a report of water shortages and drought. there are communications about specific risks or specific problems that exist, but we feel that the integrated approach we want to use is the most appropriate. we are waiting for parliament's response and if there are important reasons why we should abandon this approach, we will consider it. i should like to point out, however, that the commission's communication will do little to prevent the consequences of earthquakes. the member states - who are zealously upholding the principle of subsidiarity in their competence in this area - should therefore be asked to incorporate into their national law the european union's provisions on buildings, either the eurocode 8 for new buildings or the provisions on the armour of buildings for old ones. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the commission is not prepared to take any further action to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, i too am impressed by the commission's position expressed here today, because, of course, the answer on the question of the principle of subsidiarity is respected and i fully agree with the specific suggestions, but this does not solve the problem of a collective policy proposal from the european commission which includes all aspects of disasters caused by earthquakes. mr pirker added one more and we would certainly find more. the question therefore remains: why, in addition to the principle of subsidiarity and the specific measures mentioned by the commissioner, do we not have a comprehensive proposal from the european commission?
member of the commission. - madam president, as i said earlier, we are awaiting the european parliament's response to our communication on earthquake prevention. when we have the answer we will consider whether this approach or the other approach is better. in particular, there are now specific provisions for nuclear installations and the seveso 2 directive for industrial installations.
member of the commission. − solar-thermal electricity was never excluded from the european economic recovery plan. it was not included for the reason that we addressed the most urgent energy needs. that means that we looked at the issues where the crisis has had the greatest impact and where projects could not materialise. the first question was interconnection. any power production, especially from new energy sources, cannot function if there are grid issues. so we addressed as a matter of urgency the electricity grids and interconnection between member countries. on top of that we have had the gas crisis, which clearly showed that in some cases missing physical infrastructure has a huge impact as regards gas supply disruption. this is the easiest way to respond to the security of gas supplies. and we addressed two other issues which i think would definitely be postponed if they did not have support from the community: firstly, offshore wind energy, which is rather a large project that needs to be connected to the mainland grid, and, secondly, carbon capture and storage, where we really need to encourage industry to come with a full-scale project as soon as possible. for this reason we have not considered other eligible areas. that is why it was not included, not because i do not believe in it. i believe in solar thermal energy but we addressed the most urgent needs. what sources are available to support the further evolution of solar thermal electricity? first there is the seventh framework programme. we have eur 2.35 billion for the years 2007-2013. second, it is one area where you can provide the tool. from next year we have an opportunity to provide 300 million emission allowances for new entrants. renewable energy projects, such as solar thermal electricity, are eligible. so if the projects are there they are very welcome. we can also use funds from the european regional development fund. we encourage more use of synergy energy sources; in particular we increased the limits of how much renewable energy could be used in relation to housing and energy efficiency. so overall eligibility for these measures has been increased. on top of this, in the summer or early autumn, the commission will table a new communication on financing low-carbon technologies. we will try to elaborate on it so that these technologies get support, not only from the community budget but also from industry and the member states, so that this support is targeted and so that we get the new technological development very quickly to achieve our goal of 20% renewable energy by 2020, but perhaps we can be even more ambitious in this respect. so we have not excluded it. it is just that we have a lot of areas that we need to address and we have taken the most urgent areas where money needs to be invested now.
member of the commission. − in establishing the list we looked at the majority of the projects and we also involved the member states, so at this stage i have no reason to believe that we will be unable to disburse or commit all the money. if there should be some delays, or if some projects are not sufficiently prepared, we will have a report in march 2010. so, if there is a possibility that part of the money is available, i promised at trialogues that the commission will consider, if appropriate, making a necessary proposal. but it is premature to promise it because it depends how well we can commit the money, as today there are a limited number of projects where we believe that they have advanced enough to use this money.
member of the commission. − well, my colleague stavros dimas has already replied to a supplementary question on this issue. basically, nuclear energy is established in a way that means that each country has a nuclear safety regulator who has full responsibility for implementing nuclear safety measures. at the same time, each member state decides whether or not to use nuclear energy. this is subject to the euratom treaty, and very clearly there are additional requirements. the additional requirements are that each project that is submitted is also analysed by the commission and we make a recommendation on the projects to be developed. we did that in the case of belene and also of mochovce. there is also a clear obligation that the requirements of the environmental impact assessment should be fulfilled, as laid down in community law, and the additional requirements of the un/ece espoo convention on environmental impact assessment in a transboundary context will also be applicable. so whatever project is being proposed, we are not discriminating between member states. there are clear requirements to be fulfilled and each project is analysed on its own merits, based on the community acquis and on environmental legislation. i can assure you that this process is so watertight that no permission has ever been given to build a nuclear power installation unless all the safety requirements can be guaranteed.
madam president, i would like to ask, in connection with what the commissioner said about the evaluation of each proposal, whether a study can be made in advance of the region in question, based on euro-mediterranean cooperation and the specific nature of the region, so that there are criteria which each country should take into account in advance and which it should take into account in its planning.
member of the commission. − first of all, each and every country develops its own legislation that decides on the process of how the application should be made. later, the process very much relates to, and is based on, the national legislation and euratom legislation. as a result, we cannot take a regional approach. we need to look at the specific situation in each and every member state and, at the same time, each and every project. we cannot just consider an average situation in the region and say that this region is not suitable for using nuclear power. that would be untrue because you cannot develop a project that could be used in more or less every place. it is a question of the costs, conditions and time needed. so, we cannot go with a regional approach. we really need to look at each and every concrete project because only in this way can we guarantee full safety in this project.
member of the commission. − on the second part, i believe that, with this high-level group of nuclear regulators, we can move forward with stronger standards. this is just the point of departure; it was the lowest common denominator we could have developed. at the same time, because of the sensitivity of the issue – politically and also, sometimes, culturally – i strongly doubt that the european regulator could play the role required. i would not say the european regulator could not be trusted, but that regulator needs to keep a distance from nuclear power installations. i believe that full responsibility for safety should lie at all times with a national regulator, because that is the best way and that will always avoid the debate of whether the central regulator is pushing hard enough for nuclear energy etc. it is good to establish a common framework, but responsibility must remain with all the regulators who, as is proposed in the nuclear safety directive, have full powers and all the necessary instruments to implement this policy. we have very good nuclear safety regulators in the union, so an organisational shake-up is not necessary. we just need to increase the binding standards, starting from the level we have now, and working together, thus demonstrating to the world that standards can be increased in the nuclear industry.
member of the commission. − i am very glad that you put this question, because i am very proud of one of our achievements, and that is the covenant of mayors. in 2008 we supported the initiative from cities to have a covenant of mayors. this means that cities make a binding obligation to reduce co2 by more than 20% by 2020. they develop sustainable energy action plans for this. they have also founded a covenant of mayors’ office for coordination and promotion. we support these actions through the joint research centre, to provide scientific background and technical support for the preparation, implementation and evaluation of the sustainable energy action plans. for smaller municipalities, the commission negotiates with other national, regional and local administrations to ensure their support for the smaller cities. an advanced system of good practice, the benchmarks of excellence, is also intended to be implemented this year. we have also created a financial support facility through the european investment bank (eib), in which we place the grants, and also use the eib to target sustainable development in the cities. the eib has already been involved in specific projects, such as with barcelona, on which negotiations are quite advanced. i know that the city of cork has not yet signed this covenant, so it is still up to the city of cork to use this opportunity. it is a good way to really mobilise citizens behind these initiatives. at the same time there are also other instruments for sustainable development, and the cohesion policy provides significant support to cities to implement sustainable energy policies and actions. in total, for the period 2007-2013, eur 9 billion from cohesion policy funds will be directly invested in sustainable energy initiatives in the eu. the southern and eastern operational programme, which includes the city of cork, will invest eur 669 million in the region and contribute to reaching lisbon growth and jobs objectives. these cohesion funds will directly support sustainable energy projects in the region, and will help to mobilise further national investment. funding may be used to stimulate energy efficiency and renewable energy production, the development of efficient energy management systems and the promotion of clean and sustainable public transport, particularly in urban areas. the operational programme includes the ‘gateway challenge fund’, which is based on an integrated sustainable development strategy for cork. finally, the regional development fund was recently changed to give all member states the possibility to use regional funds for energy efficiency improvements and the integration of renewable energy into existing housing. this can be as much as 4% of the total regional fund allocation. so, to summarise, i believe that we have created a framework for cities that share an ambition to develop sustainable models for their citizens, and that is the covenant of mayors. the covenant of mayors includes sympathisers like new york and rochester, and has participants from other non-eu countries, so it offers a lot of knowledge through the office we operate. as concerns financial support, we do not at this stage have any programme dedicated to energy efficiency, but we have the structural funds, we have an intelligent energy europe programme and we have also the european investment bank. we are using all those instruments to support these initiatives. the european investment bank is very active in this process. however, at this stage it is not so much an issue of finance, but more about good projects and really dedicated policy from the cities. that is my answer to your very important question. i believe that cities have every opportunity to lead the way towards a sustainable energy future.
member of the commission. − we are trying to respond to this request. we are planning, by the end of this year, to develop a new energy efficiency action plan that will address this. we are also drawing up a communication on the financing of low-carbon energy sources. it is very important for stakeholders to take the initiative, and i expect cities to put forward proposals and put pressure on members of the european parliament and on member states to create europe-wide instruments in the areas concerned. without this bottom-up approach, we will fail to use the opportunities that exist. european cities are so diverse, and there are so many good ideas, that we should not just try to apply a top-down approach to each and every city. i believe that the covenant of mayors will provide much-needed intellectual input and experience to the policies we need to formulate to achieve sustainable cities. it is not only about savings. there are many issues involved. it is also about smart grids, the integration of renewable energy and sustainable transport – hydrogen buses, electric vehicles. there are plenty of opportunities. each and every city could make its own programme, because what the covenant of mayors has done is make an obligation to reduce co2 by more than 20%. that does not necessarily mean through energy efficiency. it could be a completely different policy area. it very much depends on local circumstances.
member of the commission. − since the outbreak of the economic crisis, the european union has taken a firm stance against straight protectionism, consistent with its commitment to fair and open trade. the commission is intensively monitoring protectionist measures put in place by its major trading partners with a view to appropriate action. furthermore, the eu has strongly supported the initiative of the world trade organisation to report on trade-related developments during the economic and financial crisis. since the beginning of the current crisis, more than ever the eu has been committed to multilateralism, to transparency and to open markets based on rules that benefit developed and developing countries alike. the eu has consistently argued that an ambitious and balanced doha round outcome is among the most important instruments in preventing trade protectionism and in boosting the economy. this is also the message put forward by the wto in the recent trade policy review of the eu trade policy, which praised the role played by the eu in strengthening the multilateral trading system. the key role the doha round could play in the current crisis was also recognised in the g20 global plan for recovery and reform issued on 2 april. the g20 leaders expressed their renewed commitment to reaching a swift conclusion of the doha round. finally, the eu’s commitment to open trade goes hand in hand with its commitment to sustainable development, which is an overarching policy objective for the eu, including in the context of various trade policy initiatives. sustainable development and, in particular, environmental and social considerations are important components in our trade policy. this is witnessed by the inclusion of sustainable development provisions focusing on labour and environmental standards in our bilateral trade agreements.
member of the commission. − reports by the wto and the commission’s own monitoring show that there is no imminent risk of a generalised protectionist escalation. none of the large trading nations has yet resorted to across-the-board restrictions on trade and investment. developments in certain countries – for instance, russia, indonesia and argentina – need close monitoring as these countries have until now been the greatest users of border measures to restrict trade. overall, the most targeted sectors are agriculture and food products, iron and steel, metal, automobiles, textiles and toys.
member of the commission. − the commission is doing everything possible to ensure that this monitoring is strong in every aspect, especially on the issue that you raised. i could convey the message to commissioner ashton in order to have a more specific view and a more specific answer. but so far there are no disturbing signals.
member of the commission. − the commission is aware of the issues raised in relation to canada’s intellectual property rights protection and enforcement. we are extremely concerned that canada’s proposed reform of its copyright act appears to be being given so little priority. reasonable protection of intellectual property rights is essential for the future survival of the creative industries. while several member states are now eagerly discussing how intellectual property rights can better be adapted to the online world, we must indeed still pay attention to the risks of internet piracy originating from third countries. one of the key issues in play is how to strike a fair balance between the interests of rights holders and those of consumers, while respecting data protection rules. you will remember that this was a key debating point of the commission creative content online initiative launched by the communication of 3 january 2008. the commission’s concerns have been put forcefully to the canadian authorities for quite some time now. the fact we will soon start negotiations for a free trade agreement with canada will give us a new opportunity to bring about significant improvement of ipr protection in canada. in the mean time, the commission will be taking the matter up with the canadian authorities at the highest level. it will also call for the revision of canadian copyright law to be initiated as soon as possible and preferably during the parliament’s present session.
member of the commission. − as i said before, a trade agreement will provide the legal framework with which to address some of the eu’s trade irritants and issues with canada, such as its ipr enforcement standards and certain anti-competitive practices. we are optimistic since we will have negotiations on an fta.
member of the commission. − the negotiations on a free trade agreement with korea are the most advanced of the eu’s ongoing trade negotiations. after two years of negotiations, we now have a comprehensive agreement within reach with the eu’s fourth-largest trading partner outside europe. the free trade agreement with korea would create new market access in many areas of interest to eu exporters. by way of illustration: the agreement would swiftly eliminate eur 1.6 billion of customs duties to the benefit of eu exporters; it would offer solid disciplines on non-tariff barriers in priority sectors such as the automotive, pharmaceutical, or consumer electrics sectors; it would provide significant new market access in services of special interest to eu service providers; it would offer the most ambitious package yet on intellectual property rights, government procurement, sustainable development and other rules issues; and it would foresee novel ways of involving civil society in the monitoring of how the free trade agreement is implemented, and protect our sensitivities with appropriate arrangements. the free trade agreement would also present a useful point of reference for other negotiations. moreover, concluding that agreement now would demonstrate the commitment of both sides to open markets as one response to the current economic environment. at the end of the eighth round of negotiations in march 2009, both sides made important technical progress at their level, but a certain number of difficult issues remained unresolved. eu trade commissioner ashton and korean trade minister kim subsequently met in london on 2 april 2009. despite intensive discussions, it was not possible to bridge gaps on the remaining issues, such as duty drawback and rules of origin. the commission is currently consulting on the best way forward.
member of the commission. − in contrast, the member states have recently confirmed their interest in concluding an ambitious and balanced agreement with korea. as usual, the commission will defend the principles on the basis of which we negotiate with all countries.
member of the commission. − i understand your concerns about the situation in the car industry. from the start of negotiations with korea, the commission has invested considerable resources in obtaining a good result for the eu car industry. european car exporters will benefit from a combination of the elimination of korean duties on cars and the effective removal of technical barriers. the most substantial barriers will be removed from day one of the agreement.
member of the commission. − the commission is currently still engaged in negotiations with the united states, and we are very optimistic that a mutually acceptable solution can emerge very soon. in the last few weeks we had intensive transatlantic contacts on this issue. the eu trade commissioner catherine ashton and us trade representative ron kirk agreed on 22 april to hold further talks in order to find a negotiated solution to the long-running dispute over hormone-treated beef. they confirmed their wish to resolve this difficult issue that affects businesses and consumers in both the eu and the us and, in order to facilitate the negotiations for a solution, commissioner ashton and us trade representative kirk agreed that the imposition of the so-called ‘carousel’ sanctions by the us on certain eu products would be postponed by a further two weeks beyond the original 23 april deadline. the commission is committed to doing its best to find a positive and lasting solution to this issue, and talks are currently being held by senior officials from both sides. the commission’s final objectives in these negotiations are to definitively prevent activation of the ‘carousel’ sanctions and to have the retaliatory measures currently in place revoked. we are confident that an agreement is within reach that would fully safeguard our public health and consumer protection objectives in this issue.
madam president, in the absence of the commissioner responsible, mrs ashton, i would like to thank commissioner kuneva for her reply and i would ask you, commissioner, to convey to mrs ashton my thanks for the mediation, for the consultations with the american side on the lifting of the 'karousel' countermeasures applied by the united states of america. this is an action which, if anything, goes beyond the partnership between the united states of america and the european union, two leading trade actors with a dominant role in the doha round negotiations under the auspices of the world trade organisation.
member of the commission. − mr papastamkos, i shall gladly convey your message to commissioner ashton and, without going too far in what i am saying, i think the results will be really quite satisfactory.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that it should be pointed out first of all that it is not for the commission to interpret the judgments of the court of justice. these judgments answer questions referred by national courts for a preliminary ruling in order to ensure the uniform application of community law. under article 16 of regulation (ec) no 261/2004, which concerns the rights of passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation of flights or long delays, member states are responsible for the application of that regulation and are required to prosecute air carriers for non-compliance with its provisions. in dealing with complaints from passengers which are forwarded to them, the competent national authorities, designated by the member state in accordance with the regulation, must obviously take account of the guidance provided by the court of justice. the commission's role is to monitor the proper implementation of the regulation by the competent authorities in the light, in particular, of the relevant judgments of the court of justice. the last meeting between the commission and the competent national authorities was held at the beginning of december last year, a few weeks before the court of justice's decision. the commission has scheduled another meeting on the 14th of this month to discuss the recent decision of the court of justice in case c-549/07. the national authorities will have the opportunity to comment on the judgment and to explain how they assess, in the light of the case law, the behaviour of airlines towards passengers in the event of cancellation and the practical consequences of the judgment.
vice-president of the commission. - thank you for speaking in italian. i know you're of italian descent; thank you again. of course the commission will monitor what is happening because i think passenger rights are very important to all of us. that is one of the aims of my work as commissioner. i said that when i got the consent of parliament. i will therefore continue to ensure that checks are carried out to verify that member states respect passenger rights. we are all committed, including commissioner kuneva, to trying to defend the rights of citizens everywhere effectively.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, the commission intends to report to parliament and the council on the operation and results of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 in a communication which is expected to be adopted in the second half of this year. the document will analyse four years of operation of the regulation and propose further possible actions to be developed, with the aim of reducing the number of incidents and improving the protection of air passengers' rights. all airports will be checked. i hope that the commission's work will improve the situation and give the citizens the answers they are looking for. i can give you my assurance of commitment as commissioner. i started it, i'm going to keep it, i'm confirming my commitment.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission shares the view expressed in your question that the commission's decisions have obviously led to the orderly sale of certain assets of olympic airlines and olympic airways services. they have certainly been successful in terms of competition and transport policy. the same model was used for alitalia and could be used for all airlines in serious difficulty. in short, this decision has created a new model of airline, the one that should be the airline of the future: no longer state-owned companies, but entirely private companies. this is the work which the commission has tried to do, and i believe that this objective of privatization is also the objective of other airlines, such as austrian airlines, malev and czech airlines. however, the treaty requires the commission to remain neutral as regards the public or private ownership of undertakings. the commission is in favour of consolidating the community's aviation sector, which it considers to be still too fragmented, especially in the face of the current crisis. such consolidation should not, however, impede competition to such an extent as to impair the proper functioning of the common market. the control of concentrations carried out for this purpose is the responsibility of the commission under the relevant community regulation or of the competent national authorities, depending on the size of the concentration concerned.
madam president, i thank the commissioner for his comments and his reply. on the occasion of the presence of the commissioner, i would like to ask him whether there are any assessments by the commission of the loss of jobs in european airlines during the last eight months of the financial crisis, and if so, what measures do you think can be taken to reverse this situation?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i can assure you that when there are rumours about berlin-palermo, it is obvious that people are worried, but they seem to me to be absolutely unfounded. i wanted to give you some other news, since you are particularly fond of the strasbourg-vienna route: on 31 march the european commission published two ten-t calls for proposals under which the strasbourg-vienna section could receive support under the 2009 annual programme €140 million for both studies and works projects and the european economic recovery plan, €500 million for works projects only to be launched by 2010 at the latest. it is, of course, up to the national administrations to submit the proposals to be co-financed, which will be evaluated in competition with proposals from other member states. so if germany wants to submit a project, which also concerns the subject which is close to her heart, she can do so without any difficulty and this project will be carefully evaluated by the commission in order to obtain funding. as regards the progress of project 17, the commission decided to grant substantial financing to various projects along this axis, namely the three cross-border sections and the bottlenecks.
the next item is the joint debate on the oral question to the commission on rosé wines and authorised oenological practices, tabled by astrid lulling, jean-pierre audy, joseph daul, françoise grossetête, véronique mathieu, elisabeth morin, margie sudre, oldřich vlasák and dominique vlasto, on behalf of the ppe-de group, patrick louis, on behalf of the ind/dem group, jean marie beaupuy, anne ferrouze, nathalie griesbeck and marielle de sarnez, on behalf of the alde group, sergio berlato, cristiana muscardini, angelita domenico, antonio basile, alessandro foglietta, antonio mussa, sebastiano (nusti) giovanni tatto, giovanni mussa, and umberto salvatore vlasto, on behalf of the uen-de group, and by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, to the commission (oj c 226, 8.6.2009, p.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i express my opposition, my regret, my sadness at what we are about to do. rose wine is the product of a technique. wine, however, is a product of fermentation, not a product of mixing. if this is implemented, we will have unfair competition as a result with our producers who produce these wonderful wines. secondly, and this is important, the reputation of european wine will be once again undermined. i see, however, that if we take the downhill, the downhill does not stop and continues. we discussed this a long time ago and we adopted the addition of wood chips in wine! we have been called upon to address the question of obsolescence and the economic cost. we also adopted the addition of sugar in wine. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of foodstuffs is not restricted to the labelling of foodstuffs. we won't have the courage to do that now either. europe can only be won by the excellent quality of its wines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my dear friends, i said it when we adopted the practice of adding sugar to wine. we who make these decisions will go down in the history of european winemaking as having laid a bomb on the foundations of excellent european wines. i therefore urge that we stop the downward spiral of these decisions.
member of the commission. − madam president, it has been great to listen to you here tonight, because i still feel that you have got all the passion, you have got all the energy and you have got all the emotion that i experienced about the wine sector when we had our discussions on the wine reform. the cultural heritage and the traditions that are linked to wine are still alive here in the european parliament. however, some of the questions raised here tonight totally reopen the political compromise that we made on the wine reform, so i am not going into these issues but will just concentrate on the main problem discussed here tonight. i completely agree with those of you who have said that quality must be the future for our european agricultural products. that was precisely the reason why during the wine reform – as i am sure you still remember – we reserved a huge amount of money for promoting our european wine on the third world market: eur 125 million every year was the figure mentioned when we had these discussions. this was because we know that we have a high-quality product that will be in demand in the new emerging developing countries. so we are on exactly the same wavelength here. however, i have a certain sympathy as well for wine producers in europe who have to compete with wine produced by other oenological practices that are allowed in third world countries. an example is the blending of red and white wine to make a rosé. it is allowed, it is part of the oiv oenological practices, so the european union today imports rosé wine produced in exactly this way. why should we prevent our own wine producers from competing with imported wine within the european union? i therefore think we have taken a balanced approach on this issue. it was important that we found a way to label our wines to make sure that consumers knew what they bought, and with the pdos you have the possibility today of putting information on the label to inform the consumer that this is a wine produced by the traditional method. i said in my first speech that i met some wine producers from provence. they did not like ‘traditional rosé’ exactly for the reason you said – that it was a bit old fashioned. i then asked for new ideas on another way of labelling that it was the traditional method, but i have had no suggestions on this issue. the idea is to make it optional for member states whether they make it compulsory within their territory for producers to put on the label whether it is a coupage or a traditional product. we will have this discussion again in the regulatory committee. as i said, a vote will probably take place on 19 june 2009 and then we will look into the outcome of this vote, in which member states will represent the opinions of their governments. that will be interesting, but i am still quite convinced that what we have proposed, which is in compliance with the oiv oenological practices, will be the way forward for our wine producers to stay competitive on the global market.
the debate is closed. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the democratic processes in turkey.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i am one of those curious constitutional animals who think that the rules of procedure mirror our own work here in our own parliament. so i think this is an important piece of work by richard corbett, who is the eminent specialist in this field. to his credit i must say that this is the second modification of the rules of procedure. there are things that have changed very recently and that we are changing again, because we have seen that the practice of our parliament demands that those changes be made. i have one general remark and three specific ones to put before you tonight. the general remark is that i think it is also very important to talk about the second aspect of mr corbett’s report: the impact of the lisbon treaty upon our rules of procedure. it is very important to talk about that too, because a change to the rules of procedure without that second part would be imperfect. my three specific remarks: the first one concerns a modification in which i played a small part myself. it is the fact that we are trying to put into the rules of procedure this idea of an agora, of the possibility for citizens, too, to address the european parliament and to participate in discussions before the european parliament. i think this is a symbolically important initiative that we took together with my friend and colleague gérard onesta, and i think it would be a good thing if that were to be enshrined in the rules of procedure. the second thing that is, i think, of importance is the change we have made to the own-initiative reports: the fact that, having seen how the own-initiative reports have been in practice, we are reintroducing the possibility for amendments, albeit by one 10th of parliamentarians. the third aspect is this blue card procedure. i am in favour of everything that will enliven our parliamentary discussions here, so this possibility for parliamentarians to interrupt one another in a civilised way and to speak like that is a good idea.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank mr gérard onesta for his work and for his presence in this parliament. i would like to make a few remarks on his latest report. i am convinced, as is olga frassoni, that the right to petition is an important right, but i cannot help saying that the committee on petitions is a rather curious committee, i would say, important, interesting, but curious. this mini-courtroom where we talk about everything and nothing is a pretty important but interesting thing, and different from what we do. i would like to return to three points very briefly. first, minority languages. i agree, but it must not be an open door for languages that are a little beyond the law to enter this parliament. then there is the question of admissibility. i agree entirely, and it is a good thing, that we tend to accept rather than reject petitions. finally, i would like to say that i share the opinion of our president, jo leinen. the right of popular initiative has nothing to do, in fact, with the right of petition, which is a democratic, constitutional right at our level, and the two should not be confused. finally, i took the floor to thank gérard onesta for his work.
madam president, the five billion euro programme for economic recovery is intended to exploit the capitalist crisis and to facilitate the achievement of capital's objectives by promoting capitalist restructuring in strategic sectors such as energy and electronic communications. broadband and networks are essential for rural development but are not a priority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new measures, such as the introduction of a new system of quotas for the production of milk and milk products, the introduction of a new system of quotas for the marketing of milk and milk products, the introduction of a new system of quotas for the marketing of milk products, the introduction of a new system of quotas for the marketing of milk and milk products, the introduction of a new system of quotas for the marketing of milk and milk products, the introduction of a new system of quotas for the marketing of milk products, the introduction of a new system of quotas for the marketing of milk and milk products, the introduction of a new system of quotas for the marketing of milk products, the introduction of a new system of quotas for the marketing of milk products, the introduction of a new system of quotas for the marketing of milk products, and the introduction of a new system of quotas for the marketing of milk products. the one and a half billion euro is essentially earmarked for the development of electronic communications companies and not for agriculture and rural development. the same applies to the three and a half billion allocated to completing the single electricity grid and the single electricity market, facilitating the privatisations, mergers and acquisitions promoted by the third liberalisation package and the seizure and storage of coal - this very expensive and unenvironmental project aimed at increasing profits and continuing pollution from power stations. the workers and farmers understand that these measures are taken to strengthen capital and monopolies, so they reject them and fight them by demanding the satisfaction of popular changes so that they do not become survivors of the crisis.
the report and the initiative we are discussing today are necessary, but i fear that they are not very effective. it's more of an injection than a cure. europe had to do something because the crisis is big - it is important that it did something - but i think it is not up to the challenge. firstly, there is little money for the crisis we are going through and there is no guarantee that it will reach those who need it most. the sectors are important and energy and broadband, but it is not certain that they are the first priority sectors and especially those that will produce more jobs and more growth as we need. secondly, as all my colleagues have said, a large part of the money - almost half of it - 2.4 billion, we do not yet know if, when and where it will come from. the other day we were discussing in the committee on budgets with commissioner kallas, who is not in a position to give us an answer at the moment, where the appropriations will come from. thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, we are giving solutions that are not helping us in the long run to deal with the problems. it is not the solution, ladies and gentlemen, to keep taking money from the margins of agricultural policy, it is not the solution to change the balance between rural and regional policy and the other needs of the union underground. the european union must be able to respond to the crisis with a comprehensive plan, which is not in sight at the moment. i am afraid that this opportunity has been lost for the european union and i am afraid that it has been lost above all for the commission itself.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. firstly, the undeniable need to do more in europe for energy interconnections and broadband. secondly, our debate today indirectly raises the very important question of the present and future of agricultural expenditure from the community budget. the positive message, of course, is that europe is using the community budget as a tool against the crisis. that's a positive and we're sticking to it. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the common agricultural policy, which is the subject of a proposal from the commission, is a very good one, and i think that it is a good one. but be careful! if this systemic approach leads us to a simplistic, deductive reasoning that agriculture will always have unallocated funds to meet new needs, and from this we conclude that agriculture already has far more than it needs - in view of the important debates on the future of agriculture after 2013 - this would be a major strategic mistake for europe. so he should not feel that we need to go "lower" in agriculture because, as the budget has shown, before 2013 we always had money, which we took from here to make them galileo, to make them energy, to make them broadband. agriculture needs resources and will need resources beyond 2013. at the same time, we must also make clear in the european union what is self-evident: the commission's proposals are based on the principle of subsidiarity.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the present economic crisis is a crisis of overproduction and over-accumulation of capital. it is, as everyone now admits, a crisis of the capitalist system itself. the attempts to present this crisis as a financial crisis, as a liquidity crisis, are being made to disorient workers and to prevent them from recognizing the real causes that lead to the increase in unemployment, the decrease in incomes, the elasticity of labour relations and the all-out attack on them. the accounting standards supervision measures with credit and equity checks taken not only do not limit the banks' solvency, but are in fact measures that the banks themselves seek in order to ensure this solvency under a guise of supervision and control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking system is not under threat from the economic crisis, and that the banking system is not under threat from the economic crisis. the reluctance of the banks to even co-finance themselves with the public in return for even minimal controls is characteristic of their attitude. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the workers are not fooled or misled by the european union's decisions to exit the crisis. they know that these decisions are putting the burden of the crisis on their shoulders and are aimed at securing even greater profits for capital.
, in writing. the pasok parliamentary group voted in favour of the stavreva report because it gives the member states the opportunity to choose measures to support rural development at a particularly critical time for the countryside and farmers. the text has been improved on the basis of amendments which i tabled in the committee on agriculture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the community budget cannot be self-sustaining through the flexibility mechanism. instead, it is politically and practically appropriate to discuss increasing the community budget so as not to affect existing community policies and the cap policy which will be called upon to finance new community policies to deal with the crisis and improve the eu's competitiveness.
in writing. the 'telecommunications package' requested by the commission and the council is a potential threat to citizens' rights. in our amendments we have called for the protection of citizens' rights, accessibility for all and transparency and freedom of the internet as a place for the circulation of ideas and not as a political and business-controlled medium. internet users are not customers, they are citizens. we will continue to fight to protect the individual freedoms of all european citizens.
madam president, the debate in the european parliament on human rights in the world is one of the high points of the political process. the union can only exert its influence on the protection of human rights worldwide if it is also a model in this field within its own borders. the incorporation of the human rights clause into all negotiations is a great victory, but the results must be evaluated at regular intervals so that policies and initiatives can be re-adjusted. in a general context, the abolition of the death penalty and torture remain our key priorities and the union should develop even greater activity in these areas. finally, we must not forget that 2008 ended with the tragic events in gaza, where there were gross violations of human rights and the use of experimental and prohibited weapons by israeli forces. we have an obligation as the european parliament to call for the full light to be shed on this case, to follow closely the investigations and to press for accountability for any violations of international humanitarian law. the international community must not tolerate war crimes, wherever and by whomever they are committed. i would like to thank our rapporteur for his excellent work.
the president-in-office of the council. - thank you for appreciating my previous answer and for trying to give a really comprehensive answer to the question asked. as regards the supplementary question, i am not in a position to give a clear answer at the moment, but it must be said that all the issues relating to social exclusion and those relating to the fight against poverty in times of crisis are of course on the agenda and are being discussed very intensively in the council working groups, including the directive you have mentioned. as regards food aid, i may not have understood the focus of the question exactly, but in the council we are talking about food aid mainly to developing countries, i.e. those most affected by the economic and financial crisis and the previous food crisis. as far as the situation within the european union is concerned, nothing of the kind is discussed. however, we are aware of the european union's responsibility towards those who are least successful or who need help much more in this situation, and this will also be on the agenda of the development cooperation ministerial.
president-in-office of the council. − the council has not received any proposal from the commission for a european employment tax. therefore the council is not in a position to answer the specific points raised by the honourable member on this issue. however, the council shares the concerns expressed by the honourable member in her question and considers that it is important to preserve social cohesion and to promote the growth and economic recovery of the european union, which is suffering from the effects of the global crisis. in this framework, the presidency would like to recall that member states remain, in the first instance, responsible for designing and implementing the employment policies. nevertheless, the council pays special attention to these employment policies, especially now that europe is facing a financial economic crisis and adopts new early employment guidelines in accordance with the treaty. in this sense, the presidency would like to recall that in december last year the european council decided an overall european economic recovery plan to address, inter alia, employment issues resulting from the financial crisis. the plan consists of immediate budgetary measures amounting to eur 200 billion comprising, on the one hand, community measures amounting to eur 30 billion and, on the other hand, national measures that would amount to eur 170 billion. the european council also supported the idea of rapid action by the european social fund in support of employment, especially for the benefit of the most vulnerable groups in the population, such as supporting flexicurity policies and policies easing job transition periods, and giving member states the opportunity, where necessary, for reprogramming european social fund expenditures in order to strengthen their employment strategies. it is also to be recalled that, in addition to the european social fund, the european globalisation adjustment fund also provides community assistance to complement national actions, including actions at regional and local levels. this fund, created by the council in 2007, addresses specific european-scale crises caused by globalisation and provides one-off, time-limited individual support geared directly to redundant workers. a revision of the european globalisation adjustment fund is under way and the european council of march 2009 called for a swift agreement to be reached. the council welcomes the agreement for a first-reading adoption of this revision and goes by today’s vote in plenary. the european council of march also agreed upon some additional measures such as the following: removing barriers while preventing the creation of new ones and achieving a fully operational internal market; further reducing administrative burdens; improving framework conditions for industry in order to maintain a strong industrial base and for businesses with a special focus on smes and innovation; encouraging partnership between business, research, education and training; and stepping up and improving the quality of investment in research, knowledge, and education. finally the presidency would like to recall that the initiative of the current presidency, an employment summit, will be organised on 7 may in prague. yesterday the czech deputy prime minister for european affairs, mr vondra, had the opportunity to speak at this plenary on this issue on behalf of the presidency.
mr president, i thank the president-in-office for his reply. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. all these measures that are being planned from time to time - and especially in the wake of the crisis - should not be coordinated under one umbrella, what i call the 'employment pact', in order to bring benefits to european citizens who hear about millions of euros - you mentioned 200 billion - but do not see that this money is being converted into effective measures that will give them a way out of unemployment and poverty?
the committee on international trade has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - the mr president, as the author of the opinion of the committee on international trade, i would like to point out that the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon in the field of the common commercial policy contribute, as a whole, to strengthening the democratic legitimacy, transparency and effectiveness of the union's external action. i would particularly like to stress the need to redress the institutional balance within the union by making the european parliament a co-legislator in defining the framework for the implementation of the common commercial policy. parliament's approval will also be required for the conclusion of all trade agreements. i would like to point out, however, the imbalance between the internal and external powers of parliament - in foro interno / in foro externo if you will - in the common commercial policy, since the treaty of lisbon does not give parliament the right to approve the commission's mandate for negotiating trade agreements. i believe that parliament is nevertheless entitled to set conditions for giving its consent to the conclusion of trade agreements of the union. i think that a strengthened framework agreement on relations between parliament and the european commission is necessary in this respect. finally, i would like to stress the need for a strengthened dialogue between the european parliament and the national parliaments, since all matters relating to the common commercial policy will be the exclusive competence of the union. all trade agreements will be union agreements and there will no longer be mixed agreements concluded by both the union and the member states.
mr president, it is indeed a very solemn day: the lisbon package, as it is called, is finally being presented to parliament. the czech senate gave a sign of hope; many are making their final speeches, the emotion is palpable, we are closing this parliament; many of us are quite moved. there is a real historic atmosphere in this evening's sitting of parliament. as a member of the european parliament, i would like to speak today, as a half-constitutionalist, half-budgetary janus, a little more specifically about the guy-quint report on the new budgetary system and the impact that the lisbon treaty will have on this new system. first of all, it is a more democratic system - as has been said. from now on all expenditure, the budget as a whole, is established by the co-decision procedure between the council and parliament. it is also - and this is even more important - a more political budget, since we have - as mrs guy-quint calls it - interinstitutional strategic programming, that is to say, all the bodies of the european union agree that this budget should be made. but it is a system that still has uncertainties. for example, will parliament really play its role, which is a priori strengthened? will he benefit from this new power, given that there are also problems? we have less time. there's only one reading. it is therefore up to parliament to seize this challenge and this opportunity to play its part. will the budgetary five-year period coincide with or overlap with the parliamentary five-year period? it's not safe. here, too, effort is required. there are also missed opportunities. we have lost the opportunity to have increased own resources, we have lost the opportunity - give me another ten seconds, since we are in a solemn and nocturnal session - to implement a new budgetary philosophy. finally, i would like to stress that we are faced with challenges: the challenge of transition - it is not easy to switch from one system to another from one moment to the next - and the challenge of flexibility - we need more flexibility to be able to cope with crises. i would like to conclude by expressing the hope that all this will be developed further with the implementation of the lisbon treaty.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal for the media mondus programme is welcomed by all those who want to see the european audiovisual sector develop, become ever more powerful and competitive, and also exported to the rest of the world. the european audiovisual industry has developed and improved significantly in recent years and its international presence has been transformed over the last twenty years, in particular due to technological developments. in some markets this has led to strong economic growth, investment and therefore increased demand for audiovisual material. unfortunately, however, there are obstacles affecting the circulation of european works on foreign markets - among them the inadequate financing of european audiovisual companies. community support for the audiovisual sector takes account of the fact that the european union and its member states favour cooperation with third countries and the competent international organisations in the cultural field, because it emphasises the importance of respecting the different cultural dimensions in order to promote their diversity and because the distribution sector determines the diversity of audiovisual works and consumer choices. the circulation of european audiovisual works on the international market remains limited, while audiovisual works from third countries - other than the united states - face similar circulation problems on european markets. european distributors are basically small companies with limited equipment to gain access to international markets. the new programme therefore provides resources to take measures to improve the distribution, circulation and promotion of european audiovisual works in third countries and, by extension, third countries in europe. finally, i would like to congratulate my colleague ruth hieronymi on another excellent job and to wish her a good career in society and her role in the future after her excellent presence in the european parliament. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner reding and all the colleagues on the committee on culture, education, media, sport and multilingualism for the good cooperation we have had in this five-year term.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on iran: the case of roxana saberi.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission is following closely the case of ms roxana saberi, including the preparations for the appeal process that will begin early next week. the commission is concerned about ms saberi’s health, weakened by a hunger strike that, according to ms saberi’s father, she started after she was sentenced to eight years in jail for alleged espionage by the revolutionary court of tehran last month. the commission considers that ms saberi’s trial, held behind closed doors, did not meet the minimum standards required for a fair and transparent trial. the commission fully supported the declaration issued by the czech presidency of the council on ms saberi’s case on 22 april 2009. we hope that the iranian judiciary will ensure a fair and transparent appeal trial without any delay, with all the guarantees provided by the iranian legislation. the commission is deeply concerned at the steady deterioration of the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in iran. the recent execution of ms delara darabi, hanged on 1 may for a crime she allegedly committed when she was a minor, is another confirmation of this dismal situation. also in this case the eu issued a statement strongly condemning the execution. the commission has repeatedly urged, and will continue to do so, the iranian authorities to respect their international commitments on human rights, including in relation to the international covenant on civil and political rights and the universal declaration on human rights. the improvement of the human rights situation in iran is, for the commission, essential to enhance its political dialogue and cooperation with iran in the near future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (rule 142) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the reasons for the decision.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on madagascar. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
member of the commission. − madam president, firstly i would like to underline the commission’s great concern at the current volatile situation in madagascar. i would also like to stress the commission’s continued commitment to the malagasy people. the situation in that country after the forced removal of president ravalomanana on 17 march deserves and requires our full attention and, like the european parliament, the commission is following events very closely. the commission has fully endorsed the czech presidency statement issued on behalf of the european union on 20 march condemning the transfer of power and calling on the malagasy parties to comply fully with the provisions of the constitution of madagascar. the commission considers that there has been a flagrant violation of essential elements of the cotonou agreement and that this is a ‘case of special urgency’ within the meaning of article 96 of that agreement. the commission has therefore launched the procedure to propose to the council to open consultation with the authorities in power in order to examine possible solutions to the crisis, aimed at the re-establishment of constitutional order. the commission will continue to use all the dialogue means it has at its disposal to find an overall solution to the current crisis. to that end, it is enhancing the political dialogue, based on article 8 of the cotonou agreement, with all the relevant stakeholders in madagascar. it is also participating in the main international efforts deployed, notably in the framework of the international contact group set up recently by the african union. at this stage, the prevailing view is that the relevant malagasy political stakeholders agree on a road map for a return to constitutional order and the holding of elections.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on three motions for resolutions on venezuela. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
member of the commission. − the commission is closely following the situation in venezuela with concern. the commission is aware of the case of manuel rosales. he was granted political asylum in peru after being charged with corruption in venezuela. the commission has taken note of the explanation provided by the president of rosales’ party, according to which he has gone into hiding for his own protection. the commission believes that the request for asylum made by manuel rosales, and its acceptance by the peruvian government, is a bilateral case and that it is not for the commission to pronounce itself on the merits of this request. we are aware that recently the judicial institutions have opened some judicial processes against opposition leaders in venezuela. we know that some sectors of venezuelan society have criticised the proliferation of measures which they consider adversely affect the right to freedom of expression and the freedom to exercise political rights. this same sector considers that the government is showing an intolerant attitude towards criticism. we are conscious of these facts and we are closely following the political situation in venezuela. i would like to underline the importance that the european union attaches to freedom of expression and opinion, a fundamental human right and a cornerstone of democracy and the rule of law. we hope that the democratic institutions of venezuela will respect the rule of law and preserve democracy in the country, whilst complying with the obligation arising from the international agreements signed and ratified by venezuela, including the american convention on human rights and, specifically, the provisions on political rights set out in article 23. i wish to assure parliament that the commission will continue to follow developments in venezuela closely. the commission’s commitment to supporting and strengthening democracy and the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms will continue to be reflected in our cooperation policies and relations with venezuela.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes)
thank you very much. it was a very emotional meeting, not only because of the human rights issues, but also because it was our last meeting. thank you for joining us.
i would like to thank you very much and also to take this opportunity to thank the staff of the convention service, who have always been very valuable.
i declare the session of the european parliament closed. (the sitting was closed at 4.15 p.m.)
the swedish presidency's programme, mr president, does indeed include all the important issues of our time: realities and the future. i'll start with the financial crisis. i think that the swedish presidency should look into this matter more deeply. the social market economy needs investment in the real economy and not just in financial products like the ones that have led us to where we are today. the climate and sustainable development, including social development, and the labour market are certainly important issues. but here too, we need real investment in the economy and more control. a market economy that tries to turn to laissez-faire is not what we need in europe. the problems of crime, home affairs and justice really concern us all. it is clear that organised crime is not what it used to be and it is clear that it is linked to terrorism and all kinds of crime, so different approaches are needed. i think that what is more important is to see also, in relation to the immigration of large numbers of third country nationals, whether the union's development policy has really succeeded and in what areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. the swedish presidency's programme is indeed very ambitious, particularly in the transatlantic dialogue. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome.
in writing the priorities of the swedish presidency signal an even greater intensity of the eu's anti-people offensive aimed at ensuring the continued profitability of eu capital by burdening the working class and the popular strata with the burdens of the capitalist economic crisis. the swedish presidency is seeking to accelerate capitalist restructuring in the context of the lisbon strategy. at the heart of the anti-working class attack is the reduction of wages and pensions, the complete demolition of labour relations, workers' rights, social protection and insurance systems, the even greater commercialisation of health and education. the 'green economy' is designed to open up new areas of activity which are profitable for capital under the pretext of 'combating climate change'. the 'stockholm programme' is attempting - in the name of fighting 'terrorism and organised crime' - to further arm the bourgeois political system in order to counter popular reactions, to intensify repressive measures against migrants. with the baltic strategy, it is initiating a greater expansion of the eu monopolies in the countries on the eu's eastern border, seeking to strengthen their position in imperialist competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i would like to express my deep regret at the tragic plane crash that took place today in the province of qazvin in iran. the debate here today is imperative in the light of the events that followed the elections of 12 june. but i think we must do it in the right context. we can't give the wrong message. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must be clear that the subject of our discussion today is the state of democracy and human rights in iran. the european union must also be able to take action to help the people of iran, and this is a matter of great importance. democracy cannot be imposed by such means. the european union must intensify its efforts to democratize and respect fundamental freedoms, but at the same time we must put the issue in the context of a genuine political dialogue and strengthen our contacts with civil society. we must also call for further investigation of the allegations of electoral fraud and stress again that the right to peaceful protest is an inalienable right of the citizens of every country. so we must today, from this stand, unequivocally condemn the violence and demand that respect for freedom of speech and expression be put into practice in iran, as in every other country in the world.
the debate is closed.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on china.
mr president, i believe that as a european parliament and as the european union we must make the necessary changes to shorten the days of the coup in honduras and to allow president zelaya to return to his country, to finally close the circle of military coups in latin and central america. we must consider the great progressive and democratic changes that have taken place in recent years in a number of countries, changes that strengthen constitutional and democratic freedoms, that defend the meaning and essence of the pole against the unrestrained attitude of the market to displace it, that break the long shackles of neo-colonialism! i believe that we must therefore take account of europe's great responsibilities for peace-making in the international arena and re-establish links of democracy and solidarity with the peoples and countries on the other side of the atlantic.
mr president, the murderous attacks by german troops, who are part of the occupying forces with the united states of america, the european union and nato, in afghanistan during the attack on 4 september 2009 in kunduz province, which turned into a massacre with victims exceeding 135 civilians killed and dozens injured, including many children, constitute a war crime against the afghan people. this attack, of course, was not against the taliban but against 500 civilians. the daily bloodshed, the organizing of violent and fraudulent elections to highlight the malevolence of the occupation of afghanistan, the poverty and misery that plagues the afghan people, reveal that the imperialist interventions of the united states of america, the european union and nato in this occupied country - but also in a number of other countries - under the pretext of striking terrorism, have devastating consequences for the peoples. the statements by the new secretary-general of nato, anders fogh rasmussen, and those by the foreign ministers of the european union have one objective in common: to continue the interventions against the peoples. the people in every country and in every member state of the european union must demand and enforce the return of their troops back to their countries.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, the debate has clearly shown that the automotive industry is one of the most important economic sectors in the european union. i think it also made it clear that there is only one european solution for the car industry - as there is for opel - that it is not possible to find a solution that is long-term and can be economically and socially sustainable in the long term within individual countries. i think it was also clearly stressed that it is very important for the commission to ensure that all the rules are applied with utmost consistency and utmost impartiality. there has been a lot of debate on competition rules, but i would like to stress that europe is also equipped with a number of very substantial directives which are directed towards the social field and which regulate restructuring, employee information and a whole range of other things which we must take into account, because every economic operation is essentially a relationship between people and the social consequences of all decisions must be taken into account. i would like to emphasize that the opel case clearly shows all the important components for the automotive industry as such and i think that the way in which the various european levels will work together to solve this problem will also tell us what the future of the european automotive industry is. ladies and gentlemen, there were some not very strong indications in the debate that the commission was not sufficiently active. i must say that during the crisis, and especially at the beginning, there were very clear tendencies towards protectionism and economic nationalism. after a few months, it was no longer the most topical topic. i think that even in this case the commission has worked very hard and has achieved some results. as regards the case itself, my colleague verheugen called two meetings to deal with this case, meetings where he linked individual member states, and incidentally the result of this meeting is that member states share their data, which was not always the practice in previous restructurings. it was also clear from the debate after my trial that the european automotive industry is an industry undergoing long-term restructuring and that this fact should be taken into account. the emphasis was on future progress and i am very pleased to be able to reiterate that innovation in the automotive industry is being supported through the european investment bank, so that in a crisis situation there is no loss of innovative capacity. ladies and gentlemen, whatever the decision that has been taken is very important for the case we are discussing, but we are only part of the process and there is no doubt that the commission will mobilise all its powers and instruments to ensure that this process is accompanied in a correct and socially consistent way.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am grateful for nearly all the remarks that have been made, for many reasons. this is an excellent opportunity to find out where the role of the commission is limited and where it is challenged, and what the clear purposes of the commission’s policy are. i also want to touch upon the time schedule. mr langen was quite clear in his approach on that as well on the role of the commission. we are all aware that we are living on a continent – and not just on the continent – that is not only populated with angels. the temptation to use state aid in different situations is there, and we are all aware of that. that is exactly why judgements on state aid lie in the hands of the commission – a decision backed by all the member states. by the way, i am still impressed that the founders of europe in the 1950s were already aware of the pitfalls of using state aid in the wrong way. they were quite clear and that statement is still in the treaty of rome. having said that, the commission’s role is to verify that no protectionist conditions are attached to state funding and that is exactly where our challenge lies. some of you ask why we cannot speed up, but we are doing our utmost. by the way, nationality was never an issue in cooperation with banks. we do have examples in the german banking world where the delivery was quite quick with sachsen lb, but it depends – and in this case too – on the players. we need the facts and figures. the need to speed up goes without saying: there is no need even to mention it as we are aware of that. we will go as fast as the provision of information allows us. having said that, we were also getting your clear line to be very careful and precise and to enter into an investigation to find proof and come back to parliament. i am always willing – and hopefully able – to come back to explain our results, but we have to verify what we find. we need to be sure and be in a position to deliver this. if mr verhofstadt wants us to go even further – not only state aid but taking in merger rules too – then, if magna/sberbank is notifiable to the commission under the eu merger regulation, we will assess it carefully. i am aware that is also what the honourable member wants. we need to be very careful about replacing an unhealthy but highly competitive industry with a cartel based on market-sharing and price-fixing, as what we try to rescue will end up in a worse situation. we take the points about speed and being very careful but precise and going into great depth. it is very important to ensure that state aid leads to a proper restructuring. that is fundamental and what the commission is absolutely engaged in. the size of the member state does not make any difference; nor does nationality or the size of the company’s dossier. we are objective. i assure you that i am looking forward to coming up with a proposal where we can say that we did our job, we did it in a proper way and we can assure you that it is viable and that there are stable jobs for the future. that is one of the main things we owe to the people who are currently living in uncertainty.
member of the commission. - the madam president, i would first of all like to express my sympathy to those affected by the recent forest fires. this summer the community made a major contribution to the fight against the many and difficult forest fires which have broken out in several member states. the pilot programme of the european union's regular european fire reserve played an important role in providing assistance to member states affected by forest fires. i would like to thank the european parliament in particular for approving the financing of this pilot programme. i should also mention that this pilot project is a small part, a partial implementation of the proposals and ideas in the report by michel barnier, to whom i also express my thanks. this pilot programme has substantially strengthened the community's civil protection mechanism and, consequently, the ability to contribute to countries affected by natural disasters. through the european civil protection mechanism, france, italy, spain, and other european union member states have provided aerial firefighting equipment to greece, italy, portugal, and other countries. for the first time, two community firefighting aircraft took part, together with greek, portuguese and french aircraft, in the firefighting effort in the framework of a pilot programme to create an autonomous community firefighting force. the recent fires have again prompted many voices from politicians, scientists, journalists and ordinary citizens to call for the creation of a specialised firefighting force at european level, which can intervene immediately and effectively when national firefighting resources are inadequate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has enabled us to secure funds for the chartering of firefighting aircraft and, for the first time this summer, we set up and put into operation, from 1 june to 30 september, an air firefighting force under the supervision of the european commission - the european forest fire reserves - whose aircraft have participated in firefighting operations in the various countries, in particular in six of the nine cases in which the european union's civil protection mechanism was called upon to assist. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which we must take to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the directive. the pilot programme is intended to fill any gaps in the air capacity of the member states and not to replace the available national means. the chartered spare aircraft were used this year, as i said, in portugal, in the south of france and corsica, in italy and in greece, in the region of attica, where we had the big fires. they are based on the island of corsica, which is equidistant from both geographical ends of the mediterranean. i believe that the need to establish an autonomous capacity to deal with natural disasters at community level is now urgent. we hope that this pilot programme will form the nucleus of a future european rapid reaction force to combat forest fires or other natural or man-made disasters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's forestry sector is not affected by the fires. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the management of forests, including the establishment of a european forestry area. however, there are also reservations about the conferral of further powers on the commission in the field of civil protection. it is also argued that the existence of a european firefighting force would give a false sense of security to many national authorities, which might neglect the necessary investments required in human resources, means of fighting and, above all, in the prevention of fires or other natural disasters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's forestry policy is not disrupted by the fires. for example, on the basis of which criteria and priorities will european aerial firefighting units be determined and used in the event of a fire being carried out in several countries at the same time, e.g. in portugal and greece at the same time. all these issues will, however, be analysed in a report to be submitted by the european commission for discussion by the council of ministers and the european parliament on the operation of the pilot programme this summer. the council and the european parliament and the commission must be convinced and cooperate in the creation of this mechanism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to say a few words about the civil protection mechanism which was set up in 2001 and which in its early years operated with little intervention. since 2005, we have increased our interventions fivefold, both inside and outside the european union: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and it's well known how important the response was to both the tsunami and hurricane katrina. in fact, in both cases we were the first to send experts to the disaster sites. but as i said before, we have a lot to do, and anyone who reads the barnier report will see how far we can take civil protection to the benefit of european citizens and of course to the protection of the environment.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forests in the south of europe are protected. this is a disaster of great magnitude and systematicity. in the coming decades the problem will get worse. for at least the next 30 to 40 years, whatever we do to reduce greenhouse gases, we will be experiencing a climate deterioration which, particularly in southern europe where forests are vulnerable, will be felt negatively. we're going to live in a future with bigger fires and worse dangers. under normal circumstances, firefighting is a responsibility and an obligation of the member states. and the member states in southern europe are successfully dealing with tens of thousands of fires a year. but every now and then, in exceptional circumstances, there are fires of great devastation where external aid and solidarity are needed. the draft decision which we are proposing on behalf of the european people's party is based on these findings and highlights, among other things, the urgency of the creation of an effective european force for immediate intervention, to which commissioner dimas referred and which is proposed in the barnier report. stresses the need for flexible and immediate mobilisation of the european solidarity fund, the need to give priority to tackling forest fires in southern europe in the union's action plan for adaptation to climate change currently under preparation, and the need to submit the commission's proposal for a european policy on natural disaster response as soon as possible; it is important for my country, and above all for the citizens affected, that this decision be voted on by the european parliament. it is important that the house should show its sensitivity to this crucial issue for southern europe.
on behalf of the s-d group. madam president, commissioner, this year, for another year, the history of forest fires is repeated, it is getting worse, and we come every autumn, after the holidays, to discuss the rehabilitation of the affected areas and the relief of the victims. in greece we are again mourning this year hundreds of thousands of hectares of burnt land, an immense ecological and economic disaster, and the same extent of destruction is in spain, portugal, italy and france. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for at least six years we have been talking about a common european civil protection force, a constant demand of the european parliament, but whose importance is being undermined by the mistakes of certain national governments. errors in the design and implementation of preventive mechanisms and measures, failure or reluctance to enforce strict legislation making the reforestation of damaged areas compulsory, failure to use all available community resources to rehabilitate those affected. at community level, in addition to the civil protection force, the immediate mobilisation of the funds of the solidarity fund and, above all, its release from bureaucratic mechanisms must be the commission's main priorities. finally, commissioner, you know better than we do that we are facing a new generation of fires, the so-called high-intensity fires, which are directly linked to climate change and are affecting the forests of the mediterranean and southern europe in particular. we therefore urgently need to redesign forest protection at national and community level by adapting fire prevention and response to new data and integrating these policies into the ongoing measures to adapt member states to the challenge of climate change.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is indeed interesting, madam president, that it is mainly the greeks who are speaking on this very important subject which concerns the whole of the european south, since large areas are regularly destroyed by huge forest fires and the quality of life, biodiversity, regional development and the future of the citizens are degraded. often, forest fires, as recently in greece, are due to inadequate and conflicting forestry and housing policies that favour arson and illegal actions aimed at the disposal of forest land. unfortunately, both major parties have tried to water down, to reduce the constitutional protection of forests. the continuing pressures for land-use change and settlement expansion and, of course, uncontrolled landfills that burn or self-ignite, coupled with climate change, which for some is just an alibi, are now increasing the chances of more natural disasters. it is therefore important to focus more on prevention, protection and early response to risks at a european level through coordinated and cooperative actions. in this context, we must ensure the implementation of a common european sustainable forestry policy and ensure that the money from the cohesion funds for regional development and social solidarity, which is earmarked for risk prevention and management and for the rehabilitation of affected areas, is actually used in a rational and sustainable way. the funds allocated to the rehabilitation of affected areas must be used on the basis of rational reforestation measures and scientific studies, and we stress that they must be reimbursed by the member states when it is established that deforestation of affected areas has been carried out for the benefit of housing or tourism. in the past, and only two years ago, parliament had made recommendations in resolutions on the prevention and immediate response to natural hazards, which, unfortunately, have not been implemented effectively. we believe that the long-term protection of forests and biodiversity is only possible through the implementation of sustainable risk prevention and management policies at national, regional and local level with the active participation of local communities, the containment of the rural population and the creation of new 'green' professions, lifelong education and training, the strengthening of forest services with emphasis on volunteer forest firefighting teams. finally, we must intensify our efforts to develop more effective mechanisms for responding to natural disasters in a timely manner by strengthening the permanent civil protection force mentioned by mr dimas and by further exploiting the conclusions of the barnier report. in this context, we are today tabled a resolution in the european parliament in the hope that we will make some progress in terms of the partnership and cooperation of the states for an effective prevention and response to natural disasters, and the more efficient use of european union funds for this purpose. we owe it to our kids.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the fires in greece, and i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. the 2007 fires, among the worst such tragedies, and this year's fires in northeastern attica, have exposed the nakedness of the fire and environmental protection system. i would remind you that athens is the european capital with the lowest proportion of green space per capita, the highest air pollution and that the fires of 2007 and 2009 have worsened the environmental problem. perhaps climate change can explain to some extent the disasters we have in southern europe. but there are shortcomings in both national policies and in the european union's policy to the extent that it has not adequately integrated climate change into the environmental strategy. the greek governments tolerate the burning of areas and the expropriation of public property, while the european union funds are being used in a rigid manner. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, to consider: does the european commission intend to contribute to the institutional protection of the country's forests by immediately initiating the process of drawing up and ratifying forest maps which, if they had existed, might have prevented these fires? will it immediately co-finance flood control and erosion control projects to prevent further disasters in the affected areas? does it intend to finance the appropriate reforestation, because it is not being done to a sufficient extent to compensate for the damage? finally, does the european commission intend to discuss with the new government to be elected in greece the creation of a metropolitan park at the former airport of eliniko, an act which will breathe life into attica? i would like to thank you very much and wish you a happy birthday on the occasion of the commissioner's name day, as we say in greece!
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, commissioner, it was a great pleasure to see and hear you. i believe that what you have said is also a reply to the letter we sent you on the second day of the fires, in which we proposed a joint action in southern europe on fire prevention and fire control, as well as specific specific proposals we had made. i would also like to add that i am very pleased to see that all the meps from the greek parties and the spanish party have responded to our call for a common presence in the european parliament and a joint effort to develop a european strategy for dealing with natural disasters. the commissioner, mr president, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. because it is a structural phenomenon that we see fires and floods. we should not be thinking in the short or medium term. we should lay the foundations for a long-term strategy. the governments of the mediterranean countries must therefore join in an effort to convince our northern partners of the need for this mechanism, both in the context of subsidiarity and in the context of solidarity. i understand, commissioner, that you have problems from northern europe with respect to subsidiarity. i hope that the phenomenon of natural disasters will be confined to southern europe. i am very much afraid, however, that climate change is proceeding at such a high rate that we may have natural disasters of a different nature in northern europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at present there is this small unit based in corsica. it worked well this summer. it is imperative that this unit be developed and that the environment commissioner be supported in his reporting to both the commission and the council. i would appeal to the members of the european parliament from the countries of the south to cooperate with their governments and to support mr dimas' proposals both in the commission and in the council, which is in the interests of all the countries of the south. i have seen the proposal from the epp, which i agree with. i am really glad that their resolution has gone ahead. i would add something else to this resolution which the epp is promoting. taking into account the principle that climate change results in fires and floods, the commission should place particular emphasis at the copenhagen conference on the development of a strategy for preventing and responding to natural disasters, define the budget needed to cover the prevention and response to natural disasters and strengthen the standard unit of the european forest fire fighting regular reserve to this end. we expect, commissioner, to see the european strategy for preventing and responding to natural disasters high on the copenhagen agenda and as a top priority.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's forestry policy is not disrupted by the fires, and that the commission is not forced to take action to prevent them. as far as our experience in greece is concerned, the fires that have burned down northeastern attica, kythera, euboea and other areas of greece, causing incalculable damage, are the result of the incendiary policy of the eu and the successive governments in our country who want the land, forests and mountain volumes as commodities of the capitalist economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fire brigade is able to carry out its work in a safe and orderly manner. let 's be clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected. the first tragic consequences of this policy were already manifested in evia on 12 september 2009 a few days ago with the catastrophic floods that drowned the fire-stricken evia. the inadequate flood control works and the scorched earth from the fires, combined with the intensity of the rain, caused the death of one person, huge damage to villages, roads, bridges and other infrastructure. this disaster is not justified by the heavy rainfall. it is not fatal in any natural phenomenon for workers to mourn lives and see their poor livelihoods and the environment destroyed. it is urgent to finance immediate measures to record the damage, to compensate the affected ordinary families, farmers and herders without any change in land use, and to reforest burned areas. the ownership of large private land in the mountains and forests must also be converted into public property and in addition there must be a rebuilding and upgrading of the forestry services ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. similar large fires have occurred in the united states and other countries of the developed and developing world. climate change is undoubtedly threatening forests in the mediterranean and other critical parts of the planet. but the destruction of mediterranean forests is also destroying the ability of natural ecosystems to absorb carbon dioxide emissions as natural reservoirs. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of industrial accidents is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forestry sector is not left behind, and that the forestry sector is not left behind. it also appears that forests within three hours of large urban centers, or in tourist areas, are more frequently threatened by fires. many feel that they can personally benefit from the destruction of forests. they can "plant" houses and other structures faster than member states and natural ecosystems can plant trees in burnt ones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. a european policy for the protection of forests, for the restoration of burnt ones, for the afforestation of areas precisely in the context of the european contribution to combating climate change is absolutely necessary. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and we must do so without delay, especially in view of the negotiations at the copenhagen conference which will be decisive for the future of our planet. we shall ask developing countries to protect the rainforests; we will address the crucial issue of the contribution of deforestation to greenhouse gas emissions by 20%. we must therefore be the ones to set the example by ensuring the absolute protection of threatened forests, our own threatened forests in europe, which are the mediterranean forests.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in these countries, it's not just libya. there's turkey too. turkey is not only a country of origin or transit but also a candidate country for accession. in other words, it has a dual duty to respect the political principles and the institutions of the european union. on at least four occasions recently, frontex helicopters were harassed by turkish radars in greek airspace while carrying out their work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external borders are not obstructed. what do you intend to do and how will you react on behalf of the european union to this harassment of the activities of a european body such as frontex? the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. solidarity must also be shown in the reception of immigrants coming to our countries, which cannot cope with such a large number at any one time. the commission and the council are promoting voluntary solidarity which will be something that will remain on paper. can you tell us why you are not proceeding with mandatory solidarity there? finally, a pilot programme should not be limited to italy, malta and libya. why is there not a pilot programme for the return of migrants to turkey, which is a scourge at the moment in terms of this particular problem? the greek government has asked you to do so, commissioner, and have you ever refused? or did libya, italy and malta just come and you accepted them without any further demands?
mr president, commissioner, the reality is beyond anything that is said in this chamber. we see president gaddafi amusing himself about it and the international media constantly report that he needs a billion euros to meet his obligations. we see turkey intercepting frontex planes every day and this is a country that wants to join the european union and the union is not reacting as it should. we see traffickers instructing people to shoot themselves in the legs or hands if they are caught, so that member states are obliged to adopt and apply legislation other than that governing illegal immigration, because they are now the victims; we see traders instructing illegal immigrants to destroy their papers before entering any country, so that host countries, such as greece, do not know where to send them back; we see migrants claiming asylum but we don't have the papers to verify what they are. the commissioner has said that the situation is chaotic. the european union must at some point take a firm and firm stand on this issue.
mr president, there is no doubt that we need a common immigration policy and that we must strengthen, make more coherent and effective our cooperation with third countries. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the turkish attitude is provocative. they are obstructing repeatedly and i want to make this known in this chamber, but i am also sending a message to mr barrot, they are obstructing helicopters, frontex aircraft when they are carrying out a european mission and european tasks. the new democracy meps have exercised parliamentary control. mr barrot, you will be given a detailed account of these provocative incidents and of turkey's provocative behaviour. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. we must strengthen frontex even more and organise joint return flights. mr barrot, mr president, you must hurry up your visit to turkey and libya. the problem is acute. don't leave it for the end of the year. today, tomorrow ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr kelly, i am sorry but this is a new procedure but we have to apply it correctly. it applies only to questions to the previous speaker, not for statements. apologies for cutting you off.
mr barroso, you are well aware that you have not made any reference to your positions on issues such as the protection of biodiversity, or to your commitments under the millennium development goals and the european union's sustainable development strategy. i will focus on the concept of 'flexicurity' which you often use as a combination of flexibility and security. this concept seems to have serious risks for the protection of workers. parttime work, for example, is legitimate when the worker chooses it. but forced employment, where the worker does not choose but rather cannot find a job, seems to be parttime unemployment. a similar problem exists with forced labour in positions and hours that negatively affect the privacy and quality of life of citizens. if elected, what policy directions do you intend to give on these issues in the cases i have mentioned? moreover, why do you not mention specific objectives on green professions and other similar initiatives, not to become 'green', but to at least indicate in which direction the way out of the crisis should be?
madam president, i have listened to mr barroso twice, once in the plenary and once at the meeting with the group of the european left, and i have read his programme. a separate comment: we are aware of mr barroso's positions on the transition to politics. we didn't see his positions on the gm products. does this mean that we will tolerate the importation and circulation of contaminated products in europe? in general, mr barroso, while claiming to be promoting the new ideas that europe needs, is in fact promoting and proposing the same failed, neoliberal recipes that led to the europe of recession, the europe of unemployment and the europe of great social inequalities. this approach, mr barroso, yours and that of your commission, has created a credibility gap between the leadership of the european union and the european citizens, which was most clearly reflected in the last elections with the huge abstention of european citizens. finally, because you label those who do not agree with your programme as anti-european, you cannot ignore the pulse of all europeans - and of those who want a different europe - so in my view mr barroso is unsuitable for this position.
in writing. the support of h.m. barroso by conservative, liberal and social democratic meps is due to his unanimous nomination as the only candidate common to all eu governments, neoconservative and social democratic. the anti-people policy of the eu does not depend on individuals or the president of the commission, but is determined above all by its very character as an imperialist association of capital. the political guidelines, presented by h.m. barroso, summarise the strategic aspirations of european monopoly capital, constitute the political programme implemented by the political forces of the euro-road throughout the eu the nd and pasok in our country whether they are in government or in opposition. the primary aim of this political programme is to place the burden of the crisis on the working class and the popular strata, ensuring that the european monopoly groups secure and develop their profits in order to strengthen their position in world imperialist competition in the phase of the revival of the capitalist economy that will follow the crisis. the adaptation to the new conditions of the anti-working class lisbon strategy, with a time horizon of 2020, is a lever for achieving this objective, and the attack on workers' labour, wage, social and insurance rights is even more savage.
member of the commission. − as far as the first question is concerned, the cooperation with international institutions – imf, world bank – we are working very closely together with those institutions, for example for the vulnerability flex. in fact, it is together that we have been identifying the countries that should primarily take profit from this new instrument. we have also insisted repeatedly to the institutions to grant more loans to the developing countries and, out of the usd 280 billion drawing rights, usd 8 billion will go to the developing countries. so i think we are really at the forefront of influencing the international institutions going in that direction and that will also be the stance of the commission, of mr almunia and me in the meetings of the world bank and the imf at the beginning of october in istanbul. as far as the second question is concerned, i honestly think that this was the subject of my first reply. i detailed how this should happen. i am ready, of course, to repeat it, but it comes down to the fact that we especially have to pay attention that the aid is used in the proper manner.
member of the commission. − the commission shares the concern of the honourable member that population growth in africa and the long-term impact of high fertility rates could contribute significantly to increased pressure on africa’s natural resources and determining the development trajectory of the african continent. fertility rates tell an important part of the story; according to the un population division, africa’s overall population today is 8% lower than if its fertility rate had stayed at its 1970 levels. indeed its fertility rate is expected to decline even below 2.5% by 2050. in urban parts of the continent an emergent middle class is having fewer children at rates comparable with europeans. this story is one of promise, of the countries which have attained political stability and achieved impressive economic growth. aware of these challenges, the european commission has a development policy geared to fight poverty, promote sustainable development and tackle political challenges in order to help foster stability. in this field the commission is also bound by the strategy endorsed by the 1994 international conference on population and development, further reviewed in 1999. the strategy has extended the concept of family planning to that of sexual and reproductive health and rights. it emphasises human rights, the empowerment of women, the importance of investing in health and education and provision of comprehensive reproductive health services to all those who need them. in particular the education of women has an impact on their reproductive behaviour. many studies have found a strong correlation between education and fertility; as literacy improves fertility rates tend to decrease. across all of its programmes the commission expects to commit around eur 1.7 billion to education for the years 2007-2013; more generally, we are firmly engaged in increasing the level and effectiveness of the collective eu aid to health systems delivering universal coverage of basic services including reproductive health. in this respect, under the eu agenda for action on mdgs – millennium development goals – the eu has undertaken to contribute an additional eur 8 billion, of which eur 6 billion for africa, to health, providing that all aid commitments are fully met. in order to address environmental pressure, it is of key importance to ensure that local livelihoods are sustainable. this means combating desertification and land degradation and enhancing agricultural productivity, halting over-exploitation of biodiversity, forests and other natural resources including oceans and inland waters; and, finally, ensuring that climate change remains within certain limits and assisting african populations to adapt to climate change. the commission, together with the eu member states, is working on an environmental integration strategy to ensure that development cooperation efforts contribute to these objectives. our preparations for the copenhagen climate change summit are to be seen in this light. at present the eu is working with the african union and other regional organisations to strengthen their capacity to address environment and climate change issues. it promotes important initiatives to enhance forest governance, especially through forest law enforcement, governance and trade.
member of the commission. − we do not have a specific family planning policy, but this can and does happen at the request of the governments concerned. a lot of maternal deaths result from abortions in unacceptable circumstances. in countries where the legislation allows abortion, the commission will also support these programmes. so whether or not we take such measures really depends on the countries concerned. with respect to the second question; i must say that when you look at the african continent and the birth rates, as i explained in my introduction, there is a clear relationship between economic development, the degree of urbanisation and fertility rates. this is not a new phenomenon. we have seen that in all countries all over the globe. one can expect, with global urbanisation and, hopefully, increased growth figures, that the fertility rates might go down. this is not limited, as the honourable member is suggesting, to some countries. it is rather a phenomenon that is linked to the development of the country concerned.
member of the commission. − the protection of human rights is of the highest priority in the european union’s relations with colombia. we are therefore following the situation in colombia very closely. we are well aware of the difficulties confronting trade unionism in colombia, and the continued killings of, and threats against, union leaders and members. we know this from our information sources, from the reports and statements issued by international treaty bodies, as well as from my own discussions with bodies such as the european trade union confederation. serious concerns remain concerning the effective application of the ilo core conventions in the country. we are consistently urging the government to step up efforts to protect the most vulnerable population groups and to investigate and punish all human rights violations. recent attacks on human rights defenders and trade unionists have been the subject of démarches by the eu troika ambassadors in bogotá and were also raised during recent high-level meetings between european union and colombian officials. moreover, we have recently launched a bilateral human rights dialogue with the colombian government which provides a channel for a more regular and systematic exchange of information and experience in the human rights field, and will help inform technical cooperation. furthermore, we are seeking to include additional guarantees in the planned multiparty trade agreement in order to improve implementation of core labour and environmental conventions in colombia as part of the sustainable development chapter. we are also proposing monitoring by civil society institutions on the implementation of labour laws. we hope that in this manner the agreement will help to improve the situation for labour rights activists in colombia.
member of the commission. − i am grateful to both, and i understand the passion and strength of feeling. i am not convinced that suspending negotiations will achieve what both honourable members would wish to achieve. what i think we have to do is to continue the dialogue, continue working to include in our discussions and, more importantly, in our agreements, an absolute guarantee along the lines that both honourable members are looking for. that is the approach that i have taken. it does not mean, i hasten to add, that i have not invited those who have already talked to me to continue with their contribution to making sure that we are on the right lines, and of course i keep it under review but at the present time that is the course of action i have decided upon.
member of the commission. − it is true, of course, that international trade has been particularly deeply affected by the crisis. the world trade organisation secretariat estimates that global trade will drop by 10% in 2009, with a 14% decline in developed countries and about 7% for emerging countries. this calls for ambitious reactions, which is what we have been doing, both on trade finance, multilateral negotiations and bilateral negotiations. together with member states, we have taken a number of important steps to increase the availability of trade finance. where commercial parties were no longer willing or able to provide export finance insurance member states have stepped in via the export credit agencies. with regard to short-term insurance, this has been facilitated by the commission decision to temporarily relax the conditions to offer such support. we furthermore agree to temporary relaxation of the oecd rules on medium- to long-term credit insurance. at the multilateral level, we strongly endorse the commitments made in the g20 context for national export credit agencies to make available sufficient government export credit insurance capacity where this is needed, and we also support the efforts by multilateral financing organisations to make available new trade-financing facilities or increase the envelopes of existing ones. to make sure we consolidate and increase exports, we are continuing to pursue the various trade negotiations we have engaged in. honourable members know that the priority on the multilateral front is and remains an ambitious, balanced and comprehensive conclusion to the doha round, which would reap great benefits for the world and of course for the european economy. the recent meeting in new delhi which i attended has provided new political momentum and, together with the upcoming g20 summit in pittsburgh, it will hopefully enable us to conclude the deal in 2010. we are calling for real engagement with key world trade organisation partners in the months ahead in order to move the negotiations forward on the basis of the package which has been tentatively negotiated up until this point. as members know we are pursuing a range of bilateral agreements in conjunction with this.
mr president, under the pressure of the economic crisis many countries are taking measures to stimulate their domestic industries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new tariffs. has the commission made an assessment of the impact on european exports of the policies of our third-party trading partners, such as the so-called 'buy american' or 'buy chinese' policies?
madam president, i would also like to refer to the issue of crime already mentioned, as well as that of illegal immigration. it is a fact that tajikistan is at a nerve centre, at a geopolitical location, and europe should consider how we can limit crime, especially drug-related crime from afghanistan, and on the other hand - primarily - the flow of migrants. it is a fact that europe can no longer afford this flow of migrants, via tajikistan, afghanistan and other countries, a fact for which the mediterranean countries, malta, cyprus, greece and italy are paying the price today, but which will later be met, with mathematical certainty, by all the countries of northern europe. we must of course respect the rights of all those people coming from these countries, but at some point europe must also take a stand and realize that we cannot tolerate all this immigration from asia.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, on behalf of the european united left, we believe that the commission's proposal to lift the visa requirement for citizens of serbia, montenegro and macedonia who hold biometric passports is on the right track and fulfils the european union's commitment to the peoples of this region to travel and communicate with the rest of europe without the need for a visa. i should like to stress that when we talk about the western balkans, we are talking about a wounded region which has recently experienced military conflicts and civil strife for which the european union, and some of its member states, bear responsibility. wounds in this area heal slowly. we therefore believe that the visa waiver procedure for the citizens of all these countries is a very important event and gives them the opportunity to communicate with the peoples of the rest of europe. however, i cannot help but point out the conditions and conditions which make it somewhat uncertain - if i understand correctly - whether the council will approve the lifting of visas for montenegro and serbia in october. firstly, in the case of kosovo, which - if i am not mistaken - is subject to security council resolution 1244, and in particular the serb minority, which lives in a state of rural prison guarded in geographical enclaves, we are effectively denying them freedom of movement. double the punishment: the european union does not allow them to move to the countries of the european union. secondly, i have many reservations about whether some of the conditions we are asking serbia and montenegro to fulfil are relevant to this particular issue and do not serve other political purposes. i therefore believe that an effort should be made to lift the visa requirement for the inhabitants of montenegro and serbia and for the other countries of the western balkans in october.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, first of all, stability and peace in the western balkans must be of interest to the whole of europe and, of course, because i come from greece, it is only logical that we should be more interested because we border some of these states. we would therefore regard the direction taken as positive. but i would like to make a special reference to macedonia. the government in skopje is cultivating an extreme nationalism towards a member state of the european union, greece, by circulating maps showing a greek part, macedonia, as well as thessaloniki and many other cities, to be under occupation, in effect cultivating a spirit that these territories - supposedly occupied by greece - must be liberated. i am not focusing on the name issue, which may leave you indifferent, although the greeks are particularly sensitive to the spelling of a name. but you must understand that we cannot allow nationalism, the development of nationalism, in these countries, especially at the expense of other member states of the european union.
madam president, we must recognize that the commission's proposal to abolish visas for serbia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and montenegro is an important step towards european integration in the western balkans. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. of course, no one is arguing that the european commission is prejudiced against the muslim citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. on the other hand, we must not forget the specific nature of kosovo, whose independence is not recognised by all the member states of the european union. we want the people of kosovo to benefit from the abolition of visas, but whatever solution is found must not prejudge the final settlement of the regime. the commission has done the right thing in not closing the door on bosnia-herzegovina and albania. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the rights and freedoms that are guaranteed by the treaty of rome. the european parliament has for many years emphasized that easier contact with the outside world, greater travel possibilities will promote peace, exchanges at all levels and ultimately stability. the visa issue is not just a technical issue but a deeply political one, concerning the european future of the region. and in that future all the peoples of the region have a right.
president-in-office of the council. − this is a complicated and very big discussion. it touches upon the conference itself but it is of course something that goes much further. we do not have the intention of really starting those discussions; we have been waiting to receive from the commission an element, a communication regarding the future budget; it was promised – as was agreed by the council in 2004 already – that we would have a thorough revision of the income and the outcome of the expenditure of the budget including, of course, the cap, which is such a big part of the budget. this communication has been delayed – there are now rumours that it will come by the end of the year. if it does, we, the swedish presidency, intend to have a first discussion among the member states on it, but it will be up to the spanish presidency to really start working on these issues. so for the moment i cannot give you any more details.
acting president of the council. - we discussed this earlier today. during the current crisis, public authorities have taken extraordinary measures, both in terms of monetary policy and of budget support. these efforts have been necessary and appropriate and have played an important role in avoiding a more serious crisis, stabilising the economy and preventing a dramatic downturn. however, the stabilisation of the economic and financial situation does not mean that the recession is over. we must be very careful to ensure that our policy for the future combines the necessary support for the recovery - which we hope will come - with a responsible approach to the sustainability of public finances in the medium and long term. it is precisely the need to balance these two objectives that makes the flexibility actually allowed in the 2005 revision of the pact so sensible. in difficult economic times, public authorities must take the necessary measures to promote economic activity. however, once the recovery has been accelerated and driven forward on our own, we must ensure that our public finances are sustainable and establish credible plans to consolidate our budgets. given the very different circumstances in the different member states, there will be different plans, different timetables, for ending fiscal stimulus and monetary adjustment. this will be reflected in many of the deficit procedures that will be addressed to individual member states, but they will need to be coordinated and will continue to be consistent with the overall framework of the stability and growth pact. the presidency is therefore planning discussions in ecofin in the autumn on appropriate exit strategies and their coordination. i expect that these discussions will lead to a clear consensus on ambitious consolidation at the right time in each member state to ensure long-term sustainability.
i'm the deputy editor. - madam minister, thank you very much for your clear answer. i would like you to pay particular attention to whether we should insist that 2010 be a year of fiscal consolidation or whether there should be some kind of extensions or delays, which, of course, has not been very beneficial to the union in terms of policies so far.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? yes, we are continually raising human rights issues in our dialogue with russia and at the summit that we hope will take place between the union and russia in the autumn human rights will be on the agenda.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? the council is aware of the events raised by the member of parliament. as regards turkey's relations with the countries of the region concerned, turkey, like all other countries, is obliged to promote good neighbourly relations and peaceful settlement of disputes. this is the spirit of the un charter. it is also an important requirement for eu membership. in accordance with turkey's eu negotiating framework and the relevant council conclusions, the eu has called on turkey to avoid any threat, source of conflict or action that could adversely affect good neighbourly relations and the peaceful dispute settlement process. in addition, the eu has on several occasions stressed the importance of progress in the normalisation of bilateral relations between turkey and all eu member states, including the republic of cyprus, and stressed the sovereign rights of all eu member states. the union's position on the issue of the additional protocol is very clear. turkey is contractually obliged to apply it fully in a non-discriminatory manner. all these issues are being systematically addressed by the eu, most recently at the eu-turkey troika political directors' meeting in stockholm in july and at the association council in may. i can assure the honourable member that the council attaches great importance to these issues and that we continue to follow developments very closely.
madam minister, i appreciate both your willingness and your courage to give clear answers to the questions we are asking. i would like to tell you that tomorrow parliament will debate the nabucco pipeline, after i remind you that in january 2009 the turkish prime minister threatened from brussels that his country would review its support for the construction of the gas pipeline if negotiations were not continued with the opening of the energy fund. this chapter, as you know, has been blocked by the veto exercised by cyprus, because it has been threatened by turkey for exploiting the exclusive economic zone. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's policy on the exclusive economic zone is properly implemented.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we propose other, more targeted interventions, particularly for the union's mountain and lessfavoured regions, so that all member states benefit in a balanced way. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of designations of origin, which is a matter for the council and the commission. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of designations of origin, which is a matter for the council and the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are conveying the anguish, the cry for survival of the creative forces of the european countryside. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
mr president, commissioner, you are known for your pragmatism and realism, but i would say with all due respect that the nabucco pipeline is not something i take for granted. looking at the capacity of this pipeline, we find that to be viable and efficient, 31 billion cubic meters of gas are required annually. you just got back from azerbaijan and you feel safe that it's a supply country. azerbaijan promises to give gas to everyone. where the gas to fill the pipeline will come from is a question that continues to plague the nabucco countries. so far, baku says "i will give gas to all of you", but they are not able to guarantee it, nor certainly its safe passage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the international energy business market says that behind the azeris is russia and that we will find ourselves in front of them. question: before you commit yourself financially, can you please assure our supplier:
mr president, commissioner, in order to deal with the problem of our energy security in a credible and sustainable way, we need a comprehensive strategy which responds to the need to diversify energy sources, but also establishes common rules for transit countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am not sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i could come to desertec. i agree with many of the points made and i would add the following: the strategic objective of the european union must be to gradually reduce our dependence on energy imports and not to replace gas imports with imports of electricity from renewable sources. if we really want to become energy self-sufficient and independent in the long term, we must promote energy efficiency and make the best and most of the unique domestic sources of energy, which are renewable.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
the time for voting is over.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to express my deep regret at the humanitarian disaster in taiwan, and i really believe that we as the european union should help in any way we can. we now know that 640 people have died from hurricane marrakech and more than 192 are missing. a landslide, in fact, wiped an entire village off the map and led to hundreds of deaths. but all of this is not accidental. it was preceded by extensive dehydration, which reduced the earth's ability to absorb rain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. a hurricane is formed in sea areas with a surface temperature of 27 degrees celsius. rising temperatures will significantly increase both hurricanes and their intensity. as of today, 120 million people live in areas affected by hurricanes. between 1980 and 2000, we had 250,000 hurricane victims. for all these reasons, our hearts must be in copenhagen, where in december we will decide whether each of our countries will stand up for its own temporary, short-term interests, or whether we will all fight for the planet - our home - the fight to reverse climate change. so will the developed and developing world stop contributing to disasters like this one in taiwan? but that requires action. it requires us to commit to making the necessary commitments to the necessary reductions, so that the temperature does not rise above 2 degrees celsius, it also requires us to put our hand in the pocket to help the developing world financially to be part of the solution and to help tackle climate change. my dear colleagues, it is we, the developing world, who have caused climate change. we are the polluter and according to the principle we ourselves have established - 'the polluter pays' - we must pay. we must pay for it by giving economic aid to developing countries.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i see that the debate from the irish referendum still lives in this plenary and there is a lot to say about democracy. is it democratic to let the irish people vote once again? well yes, it is. it is very democratic. if you listen to the people, you ask them: why did you vote ‘no’? you find out the reasons. you clarify these things by giving legal guarantees to the irish people on taxation, on neutrality, on certain ethical issues and also making a guarantee that all member states, including ireland, will have a commissioner when the new treaty comes into force. with this clarification you have a new referendum. the people answered ‘yes’ with a two-thirds majority and with a higher turnout than last time. this is democratic, and i think we should rejoice and congratulate the irish people for this. i also see that there is a clear domestic debate from the uk in here; it would be tempting to go into that, but i will not do so. i just want to say that, independently of who is in downing street next year, britain needs europe and europe does need britain. i also sense a certain frustration in here about the timetable now. i can understand that and i share it, but i want to assure the house that we move as swiftly as we can. we have guarantees or promises that the polish president will sign within a few days. the timetable in prague is still a little bit unclear. i will go there tonight, if i catch the plane, and will meet with lots of people tomorrow in order to get a clearer picture of the different scenarios, the different timetables that we can expect. we need a few days to grasp and to assess the situation in the constitutional court. the treaty is in the constitutional court and, until it has left there, the president cannot sign. i am quite optimistic: i think this will be ready within a short time, but we need to wait a few days for this clarification. meanwhile, the presidency is working, of course. there are lots of working groups going on in order to prepare for the full implementation of the treaty. there are discussions going on with the european parliament, with the commission, in order to put everything in place that we need to do so that the treaty can enter into force very swiftly. i received a question from madame flautre about the extra meps; that is an issue that will have to be dealt with as soon as the treaty enters into force, and i want to assure her, if she is listening now, that we are doing whatever we can to ensure that the decision can be made as soon as possible. i want to thank parliament for having decided to give these meps observer status while we wait for the formalities once the treaty is adopted. she also named many men who are being mentioned for the top jobs, but those are men named in the media, in the press; there are no official candidates from the council yet. there will be. but all those names mentioned are named in the media. i would very much welcome if one of those top jobs could go to a woman. i cannot guarantee you that we will succeed with that because a presidency has to listen to all the capitals and find candidates who can achieve a consensus among the 27 member states, but i would very much welcome the candidacy of a woman; it would make europe much more representative than today. i also feel, mr president, a very strong sensation in this house that europe should move on to be a stronger, bigger player in the world and to show resolve when it comes to the economy, the fight against unemployment, tackling the challenges of globalisation and the climate issue. we need to do that. the lisbon treaty is an important tool for us to do so; but we also need to move on independently of what treaty we have, to show concrete results and to deliver. only when we do that, when we deliver what the citizens expect of us – and this goes for the council, the commission and the european parliament – will we gain legitimacy and the confidence of our citizens. i can assure you that the presidency is doing everything it can to move the processes on on all these issues, with the help of the european parliament. thank you very much for an interesting debate, mr president.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, it has been an interesting debate, which i am sure to some extent repeats the discussions that have been held in ireland and elsewhere. could i just start with some facts. it is the member states’ governments who decide on the method for ratification. there is no way that the eu institutions can force a member state to choose either a referendum or a parliamentary ratification. i think it is very important to say this. it is interesting that those who speak very strongly in favour of independent nation states are also the ones who would be willing to impose a referendum on all other member states, which i find a bit strange. now ireland decided to carry out a second referendum. let us be very honest, this always carries a political risk, but it was the irish government which decided that they were willing to do so. and why did they do that? incidentally, it is not unusual to repeat referenda: that has been done previously on domestic issues, and in certain member states you can come back several times on a domestic issue too, so let us be intellectually honest about this whole procedure. i think we have heard a very good analysis from the irish meps themselves, from mr kelly, from mary macdonald, from mr de rossa: they offered an explanation on why there was a change among the irish population, on why they moved towards a ‘yes’ vote, and i think we have had good answers. i think some meps have a very strange way of looking at democracy as very static and absolute. they maybe prefer to forget that this is a discussion about a reform. it is a process that started in laeken many years ago and has involved different democratic bodies and discussions over the years to try to find a common way of taking decisions in a more modern, more democratic and efficient way. member states and their leaders have of course invested a lot of time and energy in this procedure and this is why it is not static: it cannot be compared with a football match. i am sorry, you cannot count scores in the same way as in a football match, because we also have to listen to each other. and this is what was done. the concerns of the irish people were listened to and they did it themselves in ireland. why do we have to explain? the irish themselves, their national parliament, debated in a subcommittee the reasons why there was a ‘no’ vote – because this came as a surprise to many there. so they looked at the reasons. i was there myself. i was at the fashion fair in dublin, i was at the fish market in cork, i was at the public meeting in donegal, and what many people said first of all was: well, we have not actually read the full text of the treaty, it is a very complex legal text and it is difficult to understand exactly what this is all about. some said they were very afraid that what was on the posters might be true, that the eu will decide on a minimum wage which is eur 1.48: can that really be true? or is it true that the eu will impose conscription to a european army and send very young people to afghanistan in a european army: can this be true? what kind of statements are these? should i believe in them? so there were a lot of worries and a lot of real concerns and mainly, i would say, a lack of information and a need for their concerns to be taken seriously. this is what happened. civil society also engaged, as i think mr kelly explained very well. i am not ashamed of the fact that we made a citizens’ summary of the lisbon treaty which was then published in the big newspapers – uncontested by anybody i may add – so that citizens could themselves read a summary in understandable language of the full treaty, so that they could judge by themselves what was in there, what was true or not. i think the legal guarantees helped, because then it was clarified that they did not have to worry about neutrality or abortion or any of the other concerns. so this was clarified and they got legal guarantees and they got a commissioner – and thank you, ireland, because it means that there will be a swedish commissioner also from now on, also a german one, and one from greece etc., so i think we also have to thank the irish for setting that straight. of course, we do not debate these things in a political vacuum. the reality will also influence how we think about these issues, and there is nothing wrong with that. but i think we should always, in the analysis that follows after a referendum, think very carefully about any fear factors on both sides, because fear is a very strong emotion and it might be misused. so i think that the debate that will follow in ireland should also address how to avoid using or misusing any fear factor. but the reality showed that the irish people believe that they have a place in the centre of europe, and that they will be helped by belonging fully to europe and not being questioned about whether this is true or not. i also hope that the commission can continue to play this role of providing factual objective information, but the debate will go on because, remember, the upside of a referendum is that you have to engage with citizens. you have to provide information and a debate and a discussion. the downside is that it also divides the population. you are forced to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ and that can stay for a long time in the hearts and minds of the irish as well. we have a duty, an obligation democratically, to also take the concerns of the ‘no’ side seriously, to continue the debate and make sure that the eu issues are integrated into the normal political debate, including by civil society in ireland from now on, and in the rest of europe in the same way. this is part of the reason why we did not have a higher voter turnout: that it is not part of the daily discussions about politics in each and every member state. that has to be done and i hope that there will be a commissioner responsible for both citizenship and communication from now on and hopefully under the new lisbon treaty.
thank you, commissioner, and my thanks to all of you who took part in this very important debate on the outcome of the irish referendum. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
mr president, the european union directives and the laws in the member states on the eight-hour day, and in general reactionary restructuring, are creating medieval working conditions, provoking anger and mobilisation among workers. the european commission is flooded daily with demonstrations by angry farmers and indignant workers. typically, the working hours of cabin crew and pilots in air transport, as provided for by regulation no 1899/2006, exceed 14 hours of work per day, endangering the lives of workers and passengers, as demonstrated by numerous scientific studies. the european union refuses to take account of scientific studies because it is obeying the orders of monopoly business groups which are not willing to sacrifice a single euro of their profits for the health of workers and the safety of flights. we are asking for a reduction in the working hours of pilots and cabin crew in air transport and for the fair demands of the workers to be met. the european commission is committed to the european parliament and to the workers.
madam president, commissioner, as a former journalist and myself, i could never have imagined that today, half a century after the start of the process of european integration and shortly before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, we would be discussing some of the basic principles and values on which the european union was built and is based. principles such as the independence of the press, media pluralism, freedom of expression for all and especially journalists, equality before the law for all or even, if you will, the basic principle of the separation of powers. there is a separation of powers, ladies and gentlemen, when the prime minister of a country, the highest executive authority, owns and controls the bulk of the media in his country and then prosecutes the rest? what is happening in italy today, ladies and gentlemen, is not an italian matter, it is a european matter, because the very credibility of the european union is at stake when it monitors and judges violations of fundamental principles and rights in third countries and tolerates these same values and principles being violated on its own territory.
in writing. the kke opposes the joint resolution of the conservatives, social democrats and liberals, because it consolidates the strategic aim of the monopolies to pass on to the working class and the popular strata the painful consequences of the economic crisis of capitalism. the political representatives of capital, in their resolution, ask the urban governments to continue to support the monopoly mega-corporations with hot public money and at the same time to "soften sound public finances", that is, even greater cuts in social spending, in health, welfare, education, etc. they welcome the creation of 'decent jobs' which will replace permanent fulltime work with low-paid, flexible and insecure work with the lowest possible level of entitlement. this is the "dignity" that the political representatives of the bourgeoisie propose to the working class! the resolution calls for the strengthening of international imperialist organizations (imf, world bank, wto), prepares the ground for the new "green" profitability of capital, under the pretext of climate change and the complete liberalization of international trade, which marks the even greater penetration of monopolies into the markets of developing and poor countries to plunder wealth-producing resources and human resources.
mr president, in view of the resumption and intensification of the doha round negotiations and in view of the world trade organisation ministerial conference to be held in geneva at the end of november, we call on the commission to have an in-depth discussion and jointly shape the european union's negotiating position with a view to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. we also call on the commission, as far as the agricultural sector is concerned, to fully respect its negotiating mandate and to ensure that any offer it makes does not lead to further reform, much less to pre-empt the 2013 review. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the recent kidnapping of athanasios lerunis, chairman of the greek volunteers ngo, is the latest in a series of kidnappings in the troubled region between pakistan and afghanistan involving polish, british, japanese, chinese, canadian citizens, most of whom did not escape death. the inhabitants of this region, also known as kafiristan, meaning land of the infidels, struggle to maintain their principles, traditions, and customs in a hostile environment that is gradually absorbing them. lérunis and his team have been working effectively with the kala tribe for about fifteen years, and have managed to improve the living conditions of this isolated community during this period. we call on members of the european parliament to use their power and help rescue a volunteer who has devoted much of his adult life to understanding a community in central asia that is threatened with extinction.
i would like to refer to the accidents at work in greece and europe. the inadequacy and negligence of companies, control mechanisms, national and community authorities in applying the rules on safety and health at work is criminal. the evidence for greece, my country, is relentless. in 2008, there were 142 fatal accidents, and since the beginning of 2009, there have been more than 56. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. crimes for profit, such as the one committed since february 2008 in france telecom. last week another worker, the 25th, was driven to suicide because of the unacceptable working conditions. what is the commission's response to this? if it was any other matter, he would have intervened. i would therefore ask the bureau and my colleagues to observe a minute's silence at some point during the three days of the plenary session in memory of the victims of france telecom and other industrial accidents.
the debate on this point is closed.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the establishment of an evaluation mechanism to monitor the application of the schengen acquis (com (2009) 0105 - c6-0111/2009 - 2009/0032 (cns)) (a7-0035/2009), and the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the establishment of an evaluation mechanism to verify the application of the schengen acquis (com (2009) 0102 - c6-0110/2009 - 2009/0033 (cns)) (a7-0034/2009)
madam president, the developing countries have contributed the least to climate change. but at the same time, they're experiencing the really worst effects. in africa, millions of people need to travel longer and longer distances each day, year after year, to find water, firewood to cook, and food. they are people who depend on the services that natural ecosystems provide, and they are people who have contributed nothing to climate change. in these natural ecosystems, such as the forests of africa, there is three times as much carbon stored as has been released into the atmosphere. it's three times more carbon than is in the atmosphere right now, and it's absorbing 50 percent of the carbon we put into the atmosphere every year. for these reasons, the protection and expansion of forests, based on natural processes and not for commercial purposes, should be a top priority of our policies for both tackling and adapting developed and developing countries to climate change.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. two points: it would be a great mistake to treat shipping and aviation as the same thing. shipping is the most efficient and environmentally friendly mode of transport, while air transport is the relatively worst. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. by disproportionately affecting shipping in relation to road transport, the economies of developing countries are in fact disproportionately affected, because developing countries rely mainly on raw materials, agricultural products and industry which mainly use shipping, whereas our economies are mainly service economies. will we convince developing countries of our good intentions by proposing to fund the climate change effort with money that we will get, disproportionately, through shipping and that will burden developing economies more as a percentage of gdp than developed economies? i also wonder, after being informed that the green group yesterday refused to discuss the correlation between the shipping targets and those for land transport, whether running 180 km in your luxury car on a european motorway is more environmentally friendly than transporting food and raw materials for the world economy.
madam president, the main challenge facing us fifty days before the copenhagen summit is whether we can reach an agreement on the responsibility of developing countries for global financing of climate change mitigation policies. europe has made important strides in identifying sources of funding and ways of organising it, but now is the time to press the rest of the developed countries to take their share of the responsibility, bearing in mind that supporting the effort of developing countries to tackle climate change is also an opportunity to combat global inequalities and to reduce the gap between developed and developing countries. there is one more thing that we must not forget, especially those of us in the european union. we are facing the creation of a new class of refugees, climate refugees, who are not protected today by any international treaty and therefore have no rights. the european union is committed to the principle of non-refoulement and to the principle of non-refoulement.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? i would like to thank parliament for the engaged and forward-looking debate. the broad political support in the european parliament plays a very important role in europe's position in the negotiations. i also welcome the climate resolution drawn up by the committee on the environment. the commitment here will be very important for the remaining 48 days leading up to the copenhagen conference. these days we're gonna make the most of. that means we have to reach out to the rest of the world and put pressure on other countries. a global threat can only be solved with a global response. there has been talk of global partnership here - i agree with that. there has been talk about the need to achieve a global low-carbon development - i agree with that. there has been talk of the need for new and green technology - i agree with that too. i would also like to say that what is needed is a global solidarity pact. i am now on my way to the council of environment ministers in luxembourg, where we are also to establish the eu's mandate for the copenhagen conference. this is the eu's long-term objective, which must be to reduce emissions by over 80% by 2050. it's about how we're going to push other countries to increase their emission reductions, so that we also reach our 30 percent emission reductions. this is not least because of the issues raised in the debate here, namely measures to combat deforestation and sustainable forestry, financing for which ecofin will decide. finally, it is a matter of having a mandate set by the european council. thank you to parliament for the support you have given.
member of the commission. − madam president, very briefly a couple of points. i think that after this debate, after what the council has said, we can say that we are ready for this copenhagen conference. i have noticed very broad support for our proposals, and that goes for the targets that we have put on the table, the financial commitments we have been making. very important also is the common understanding we have with the developing world – the commitments we have been making towards them and, maybe foremost, it is very important that we have also agreed on an internal redistribution of the efforts that have to be made by the european union, because if you make commitments and promises but do not reach agreement among yourselves you will not be very effective in these kinds of things. we can move forward, provided that the european council later this month gives support to these proposals. i have no doubt about that. we also expect the others to come forward. then we will speak about the united states; we will also speak about the bric countries. they have to come forward. i think we need a frank and open discussion in copenhagen. it will certainly not be easy, that is the least one can say, but i think we will really be discussing our common future there.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
mr president, your commission issued in 2008 - and rightly so - a recommendation to get more people into the labour market. i would like to ask you first of all whether, in addition to this recommendation and the measures taken by the member states, you as the european commission intend to take additional measures to strengthen the open method of coordination in the social field. i am referring to measures which are compatible with sustainable industrial policies in order to increase employment. secondly, as we all know, 2010 has been declared the european year for the eradication of poverty. our aim is to strengthen social cohesion. the question is very simple, mr president: will you put all your energy, will you have the courage - you personally - to fight so that quantitative targets are put on the issue of poverty? i would like to ask you, mr president, to take the opportunity to express your views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. the president is interrupting the speaker.
madam president, although it is generally accepted that the structural and cohesion funds are the spearhead of the response to the economic crisis, the council unfortunately contradicts itself by cutting the corresponding payment appropriations. unlike the council and the commission, we are trying to ensure that the plan for the recovery of the european economy is adequately financed by strengthening energy infrastructure and research and innovation. at the same time, we must ensure the sustainability of existing community infrastructures and instruments in the field of civil protection and, in particular, further strengthen the european union's rapid reaction capacity in the event of natural disasters, thus paving the way for the future creation of a european civil protection force. finally, it should be noted that green development and the strengthening of research and innovation must be a key component of the community budget for a clean and sustainable environment for all sectors.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the number of women participating in decision-making has increased over the last few years, political and economic power is still firmly in the hands of men. stereotypes associated with gender roles and the difficulty of balancing work and family responsibilities, alongside other overt or covert discriminatory practices, constitute a barrier to women's access to positions of responsibility and leadership. over the last decade, women have become more involved in political decision-making in most european union countries. the pace of these changes is slow and the overall proportion of women in decision-making positions remains unfortunately low. women are very underrepresented in decision-making positions in the economic sphere. in the private sector, nine out of ten members of the management or administrative boards of europe's best companies are men. only 3% of these companies have a female ceo. the commission is keen to promote the better representation of women in senior management positions and supports member states' activities in this regard through the collection, analysis and dissemination of comparable data in this area, the promotion of networks between stakeholders, the exchange of experience and best practices at european level. the european network for women in leadership, launched by the commission in june 2008, highlighted the importance of measures to promote mentoring, develop networks for women in leadership, raise the profile of women in key positions, and encourage women to seek leadership. the commission will organise information activities and exchanges of best practices during 2010. the commission notes with satisfaction that many member states have launched initiatives to promote women's access to management positions, in particular through awareness-raising in the private sector, training programmes for women interested in a career at the highest level, the development of charters or brands for businesses that promote gender equality, the introduction of codes of good practice in businesses and actions to promote reconciliation of family and professional life and to combat gender bias. the issue of quotas for women on the boards of large companies is being discussed. in this respect, i think it is very necessary to study the experience of norway, where they took this radical approach. however, it is entirely up to the member states to decide on the strategy they choose according to their specific situation. i would point out that article 141 (4) of the treaty allows member states to adopt 'positive measures'. however, the european court of justice has interpreted this possibility in a restrictive way, prohibiting the automatic adoption of such measures and requiring that each case be examined on an individual basis according to objective criteria. the commission intends to present a new strategic framework for equality between women and men in mid-2010, which will be complemented by a detailed impact analysis and which will take into account the results of the implementation of the current plan for the period 2006-2010. promoting greater participation of women in leadership positions should be one of the commission's priorities. e commission will present a proposal for a new strategy for growth and employment after 2010 early next year. the issue of gender equality should be a central element of this new strategy. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to emphasize that gender equality is not just a matter of political principle, democracy and ethical approach, but is fundamentally a fundamental economic issue. because if this society does not use all its talents in the best possible way, it has no hope of effective development in the future. i must therefore state clearly that equality of women and their adequate representation in leadership positions is an active part of the competitiveness of europe as such.
i would like to thank you once again, commissioner, for your commitment to the promotion of women in positions of responsibility. let me tell you, my question was more specific. in the light of the review of the lisbon objectives and the evaluation of the roadmap, will the european commission propose concrete measures to address the shortage of women in positions of responsibility in the labour market? the models, the norwegian, that you mentioned, will they be an inspiration for a guideline? how does the case law of the ecj, to which you refer, relate to this? is it encouraging or discouraging for you as the european commission to take a stand in favour of a direction?
member of the commission. − to the extent that universities are able to put forward projects that meet the requirements of the lifelong learning programme, which covers the period 2007-2013, the european commission is ready to finance these projects as well. i would also like to point out that a number of projects already funded by the european commission have a significant number of universities from all over the european union as partners. so my answer is definitely yes; what matters is the quality of the project presented by the different representatives.
member of the commission. - the answer is definitely yes. what started, and i mean erasmus, as a programme that was initially seen, some 20 years ago, not very positively by various actors in the union, is now one of the most successful programmes of the european union. in my many visits, not only to the capitals of the member states but also to many regions of the european union, i have seen the very positive effects of this programme. the question of the universities in poland and germany has been raised before. i remember with pleasure when i visited the university of warsaw, i had the opportunity to see a significant number of german students in poland who had the opportunity, through the easmus programme, to acquire knowledge of the polish language and polish culture, so what we call intercultural knowledge. they show very clearly how effective and efficient this knowledge is, and to conclude my answer i would like to remind you that the president of the commission, mr barroso, has referred to the intention to promote in the next period, in the next mandate, those initiatives aimed at strengthening and accelerating the mobility of young people, precisely in order to acquire these skills which are increasingly needed.
vice-president of the commission. − the commission pays great attention to all corruption cases all over europe, but i must say that the number of current matters directly and indirectly involving siemens in which eu funds are involved is quite limited. the following is an overview of four of the matters concerned. a case currently investigated by olaf and closed in the last quarter of 2003, involving external aid, is in judicial follow-up in germany. olaf is following closely the judicial proceedings in that country. a second olaf case relating to projects funded by the eib is currently being investigated. it involves public procurement procedures. thirdly, another matter relating to projects funded by the european investment bank and involving public procurement procedures is currently being evaluated by olaf, in order to determine whether there are sufficiently serious suspicions of fraud or irregularity detrimental to the financial interests of the eu. based on the outcome of this evaluation, olaf will decide if a case needs to be opened in this matter. finally, fourthly, the spanish supreme court issued a ruling on 4 november 2008, in a case involving structural funds and in which siemens was originally implicated. it was investigated by the national authorities in the mid-1990s, and the resulting judicial proceedings have been closely followed by uclaf and subsequently olaf. this ruling, inter alia, sentenced several persons to terms of imprisonment, and imposed fines, for forgery. however, it should also be noted that in this instance siemens was acquitted in the case in the first ruling of the criminal court of madrid issued on 22 june 2006. as with all these kinds of cases, the general point is that olaf is not a law enforcement agency. olaf cooperates closely with member states; the latter have an obligation to inform olaf, and olaf naturally follows up and gives serious attention to all the cases where eu funds are somehow involved or have been under investigation. this is the general picture. olaf also participates closely in international cooperation with all other international institutions in combating misuse of money made available for humanitarian aid and other projects. in relation to possible specific case elements, if the honourable member is in possession of material which could be relevant to such matters, the commission would encourage him to transmit it to olaf, which will assess it and take appropriate decisions on it in accordance with its mandate.
mr president, commissioner, the feeling in greece about the siemens scandal is what has been written about in the press. that is, the scandal - the biggest in post-war greece - is finally heading for a statute of limitations after the second ruling of germany's supreme constitutional court, which states that mr. christophorikos, former director of siemens greece and high priest of corruption, cannot be extradited from germany to greece. that's the feeling. the scandal is unfolding in greece, where confessions and convictions by german courts have implicated and continue to implicate public officials who for years have been bribed to award an unknown number of contracts and projects to siemens with the black money it was trafficking. i repeat, commissioner, while everyone knows that most of these purchases are co-financed projects, only your services - and unfortunately your reply confirms this - pretend not to know, in my view, that they are bound by arbitrary community provisions. questions are asked and the answers are: give us facts, we investigate the matter, we monitor it. i want a specific answer. the commission has a duty to protect the money of the taxpayers of europe. what will the commission do to bring to justice those who have been found to have infringed community procurement legislation?
mr president, the statements by the council and the commission on the forthcoming european council summit signal the intensification of the anti-people policy of the european union and the governments in its member states with a new, fierce attack against the working class and the popular strata. the primary objective of the european union and its member state governments, whether centre-right or centre-left, is to ensure the continued profitability of the monopolies by shifting the burden of the capitalist economic crisis onto the workers and the popular strata throughout the european union. while the european union has given hundreds of billions of euros to the monopoly giants, without excluding a new round of financing, this new phase is characterized by the more rapid promotion of the capitalist restructuring planned under the lisbon strategy. the anti-union attack is focused on the abolition of the eight-hour day, collective agreements and the widespread implementation of welfare, flexible and low-paid temporary employment by strengthening the institution of local employment contracts and stages. the public systems of social security, health, welfare and education are being brought into the criminal's lap by sweeping changes to the detriment of workers, further opening the way for the penetration of monopoly business groups into these gold-bearing sectors for capital. in the same period, mass redundancies, over five and a half million in the last year, employers' terrorism and the intensification of work have created medieval conditions in the workplace. the most striking example is the continuing crime against the workers of france telecom, where 25 workers have died as a result of unacceptable working conditions and the intensification of work.
mr president, my speech will focus on three points. the first point is the economic crisis. the crisis has affected all economic systems, both strong and weak, indiscriminately. the reading of the ten-year experience of emu in the light of the economic crisis demonstrates the need for greater regulatory europeanisation of economic policy. it also demonstrates the need to europeanise financial risk. trust is good, control is even better. the second point is climate change. the european union is rightly at the forefront of global environmental diplomacy. i fully agree with what president barroso, the president of the commission, said about the absence of a plan b in the run-up to the copenhagen conference. the ecological debt is borne by everyone without exception. i support the idea of a global climate bank, which would draw on resources from the emissions market to finance the efforts of developing countries to create environmentally friendly development models. the third point is immigration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but there are also external aspects of migration. we must move quickly towards establishing effective external relations with third countries because the pressure on the countries - particularly those in the south of europe - is great. i want to make it clear that turkey's attitude is provocative. i am glad to hear the swedish presidency point this out. the european union's message to turkey, and to other countries, must be clear, precise and effective. this framework is part of the community acquis and must be respected by all.
in writing. we refused to take part in the final vote on a resolution which, under the pretext of berlusconi's control of the italian media, promotes the general interests of the plutocracy in the concentration of the media at national and european level. it calls for the adoption of directives which will essentially turn the right to information and freedom of expression into an internal market and competition issue, imposing the manipulation of information by big business and the adaptation of the public service to private economic criteria and free market rules. the centre-right and centre-left supporters of the euro-road are endorsing and seeking the eu's blatant intervention in the internal affairs of the member states, supporting the dominance of big business in the media, and are entangled in pointless debates and false flags about who will win the favor of the plutocracy in the best service of its interests. the big media companies are cruelly trying to manipulate the consciences of the workers in order to submit to the anti-people policies of capital, which are being implemented by governments of the centre-right and centre-left. the people are not fooled by the cockfights in the european parliament and the attempts to make it look like a statue. it is, after all, a key pillar of support for the interests of capital.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 22 october 2009. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the joint debate on the council and commission statements on 1. the preparation of the transatlantic economic council and the eu-us summit (2 and 3 november 2009) and 2. transatlantic cooperation in judicial and police matters.
president-in-office of the council. − we do not have access to this information formally but, via international organisations, ngos, contacts, political parties and so on, we do get information – which is a bit fragmented – about the situation of the political prisoners. we know that in some cases their state of health is very serious. we try to liaise with families and those ngos to facilitate the situation, but of course one of the problems is that we have little concrete and confirmed information. another problem is that very many of these prisoners are held in prison without proceedings and without being charged with anything. this is contrary to cuban laws. they have the right to know why they are in prison and what they are accused of – a basic human right in all societies, but one that does not exist in cuba, as we know. the cuban dialogue is, of course, fraught with difficulties, but we think for the moment that it is important to have the dialogue in place in accordance with our decision, because it gives us a chance to try and liaise with the authorities, to be very strict and firm in our criticism but also to liaise with civil society and the peaceful dissidents. we are trying to do this and, for the moment, this is an approach we think could work. i do not see any dramatic change to this in the foreseeable future.
madam president, madam minister, because i believe that in the field of human rights, such as those issues raised by mr posselt in his question, we can work better with countries with which we have political and diplomatic relations and economic exchanges, i am struck by the fact that the european union and its member states are holding passive or negative positions towards the reasonable and consistent request of the republic of cuba to have their blockade lifted by the united states. i would therefore ask how the presidency views the matter and how you think the member states should deal with the matter in view of the fact that cuba is, as is well known, tabled a resolution in the un general assembly on 28 october to lift its blockade by the united states.
acting president of the council. - thank you, your honor. the whole of the current trio, the french, czech and swedish presidencies, concluded in their conclusions that enlargement has brought great benefits to the eu, that enlargement has led to economic growth and that there is no indication of serious economic disruption. we have regular mechanisms to review the transitional rules regularly with the commission. in the meantime, we can of course call on the member states to take the necessary measures to remove discriminatory legislation and to ensure that the skilled labour available throughout the eu is used, but the purely legal points of view are made regularly together with the commission. as i said, we did such an evaluation earlier this year.
acting president of the council. - all eu countries are hit hard by the economic crisis and unemployment. the numbers look a little different, but we're all hit hard. the transitional arrangements enjoyed by austria, among others, are open to austria and there is the possibility of applying for an extension under special procedures with justification to the commission. i have too little knowledge of the exact situation in austria. i don't know if the problems are bigger there than anywhere else. as i said, all the member states have major problems with regard to the labour market. the commission report finds that there is no indication that free movement has led to disruption in any member state. in my own country, sweden, which is also suffering from very high unemployment, we have not seen any link between free movement and unemployment. people from other eu countries have been welcomed and absorbed into the labour market.
acting president of the council. - yes, the council is aware of the events raised by the member of parliament. the presidency wishes to say that turkey, as a candidate country, must share the values and objectives of the european union in accordance with the treaties. a clear commitment to good neighbourly relations and peaceful conflict resolution is a crucial and important requirement for eu membership. in accordance with the negotiating framework and relevant council conclusions, the eu has called on turkey to avoid any threats, sources of conflict or actions that could harm good relations and the possibility of resolving disputes peacefully. i would like to assure the honourable member that the issue of good neighbourly relations is being systematically addressed by the eu, most recently at the association council meeting on 19 may and at the eu troika-turkey political directors meeting in stockholm earlier this year in july. as regards the specific item on aircraft used by frontex, i would mention that frontex coordinates several joint operations and pilot projects. they make an important contribution to the protection of the union's maritime, land and external air borders. one of these operations is poseidon 2009, hosted by greece. it aims to prevent unauthorised border crossings by persons coming from or transiting through turkey and north african countries and attempting to reach the greek coast. the member of parliament is aware of this, of course. poseidon also involves the deployment of technical means in european airspace along the borders of the greek islands. turkey has, of course, been informed of the operation. as regards operational cooperation between frontex and the responsible turkish authorities, negotiations are currently under way on working methods. this is very positive. an agreement would cover the exchange of information and the possibility for the turkish authorities to participate in frontex joint operations. such work could be an important part of the fight against illegal immigration and could contribute to improved neighbourly relations.
madam president, madam minister, after reiterating my appreciation for your honest efforts to answer our questions, let me say that your case is well known. we are cooperating with turkey, but you have not given me a clear answer, and that is why i am focusing and repeating the question whether indeed, during the frontex mission, there were violations of turkish airspace as it claims. why do i say that? because through this process it is being investigated whether turkey is questioning the sovereign rights of greece. i would add that the deputy executive director of frontex, mr fernandez, on a recent visit to greece, claimed that such violations do not occur, referring to reports by pilots. so i come back to this, are there any violations that turkey is claiming based on the frontex mission and what are you doing about it?
in writing. the eu's proposed anti-people budget for 2010 reflects its reactionary aims in a graphic way, proving once again that the eu is a transnational imperialist union in the service of capital. the capitalist crisis is being exploited for deep, reactionary, capitalist restructuring at the expense of the working class to increase the profits of monopoly corporations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the uninsured work and youth hostage labour schemes, such as the stage and lifelong training schemes, are being strengthened. the concentration of land and the displacement of farmers is being encouraged by the implementation of the cap to the benefit of the food industry and traders. are the means and mechanisms for persecuting and suppressing the workers' movement increasing? the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process, and the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process, including the frontex, europol, eurojust, and the electronic files, as well as the mechanisms for enforcing the eu's imperialist policy, the cfsp, the political security and defence, the military infrastructure. the vote in favour of the eu budget by the centre-right and centre-left parties in the european parliament marks a major attack on the popular strata. we are voting against the eu budget because it serves the interests of big business, causing even more suffering for the people.
in writing. i supported the creation of a 'milk fund' to help the sector in crisis, in particular to help farmers with the most urgent problems. i voted in particular for the amendment calling for €20 million more than the european commission had announced, bringing it up to €300 million. it is an amendment to the single common market organisation (cmo) which gives the european commission the power to take emergency measures on its own initiative in the event of serious disturbances on the milk market, as has been the case for several months. this envelope is obviously not sufficient to get all producers out of the rut in which they find themselves; but with the current budgetary margins, unfortunately he would not have been responsible for asking for more. and by asking for more, we also risked getting nothing at all. i want to remind you that these are only milestones that are being set. the debate on the regulatory architecture to be put in place after 2013 is ongoing and, on this issue, the european parliament will continue its efforts to achieve an effective and responsible framework for agricultural markets. the lisbon treaty will provide us with new weapons in this area.
in writing. the commission and the governments' measures to deal with the crisis in the livestock sector are part of the general anti-people attitude towards the cap and, in particular, the eu's decision to fully liberalise the dairy market. the most serious aspect is that the proposed funds are being used to speed up restructuring to the benefit of the food industry, to support dairy groups at the expense of farmers. the measures do not address the acute problems of small and medium-sized dairy farmers who have taken to the streets: the high production costs and the humiliating producer prices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commercial industrialists are profiting double, both from the humiliating producer price and from the multiple that the worker pays to consume this staple for man's diet. we are voting against the proposal because it is aimed at further concentrating and centralising production in the sector. the solution for poor and middle-class farmers is to clash with the eu's pro-monopoly policy and the other way of development, which frees livestock farmers from exploitation, guarantees them income and a future and generally serves the nutritional needs and welfare of the people.
in writing. the eu's european external action service (eeas), established by the reactionary 'lisbon treaty', is a mechanism for promoting the eu's increased imperialist aggression, its anti-people strategy. the haste of the political representatives of capital in the ep - conservatives, social democrats, liberals and greens - to vote for the eeig proves their commitment to the economic policy and military options of eu capital: •the eu's independent representation in all international organisations, independently of its member states, as provided for in the lisbon treaty. •establishment of the eeas, an autonomous eu agency with civil-military responsibilities, based on the cfsp and esdp guidelines, staffed by senior eu political and military officials under the mandate of the high representative. • the the eeas will be the instrument for promoting the eu's imperialist policy with its own embassies and diplomatic action independent of the member states. the maastricht treaty, which established the eu's cfsp and csdp, was the precursor to these developments and marked the intensification of imperialist aggression and the militarisation of the eu. the committee of the regions voted against the report, which clearly exposes the nature of the 'lisbon treaty' and the dangers to the peoples involved in its application. it is opposed to the eu, to this transnational association of capital and its anti-people policy.
mr president, i have noted what the presidency has said about the economic crisis, but it is clear that all the other countries, with the exception of one, are not able to implement the stability pact. the economic crisis must not, after all, be reduced to a crisis of values and principles. on the issue of climate change the presidency has done very well. but it is important to put pressure not only on the developing countries but also on the united states to change the situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the third point, mr president, the treaty of lisbon, we are happy about. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not just the institution and the treaty that are important. the persons who implement it are also important, and in this sense the presidency has a responsibility also at the level of the european commission, so that the persons who will take over - and especially the foreign minister - express the interests of all the well-structured union. on the other hand - at the level of the council - and i am referring specifically to the question of the president of the council - this is a question that many of us had not accepted. as a member of the european assembly, i know personally that many of us preferred the role of president of the council to be taken over by the president of the commission, as has happened in the past. the commission's role is to coordinate the council and to avoid conflicts. we hope that the presidency of the european commission, and especially the presidency of the council, will make the appropriate recommendations to the member states so that the way in which both institutions will operate is such that it does not depart from the community working method and the good past we have in europe, which has ensured us so many years of prosperity.
president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a very interesting debate and i thank you for your comments. the swedish presidency shares your joy at finally seeing the treaty of lisbon ratified by all 27 countries. it will give us a more efficient, more democratic europe and a stronger role on the world stage. i'm very pleased. i also agree with those who have said that, even if it was perhaps a coincidence, it was a very well chosen week for president klaus to sign the treaty: the same week we celebrate the fall of the berlin wall, the end of the communist dictatorship, the beginning of european unity and finally the victory of the ideas of robert schuman over those of joseph stalin. (applause) i would like to thank speaking of the czech republic, i would like to answer the question from mr duff by saying that what the czechs have received is not a total opt-out from the charter of fundamental rights. protocol 30 does not suspend the binding nature of the charter with regard to the uk, poland or the czech republic. it merely limits the way the court can use it and, ultimately, it will be up to the commission and the court to interpret it whenever a conflict might arise. as the prime minister said before leaving, the consultation with his 26 colleagues is now ongoing. it is difficult, but it is his goal. he has already invited them to a working dinner next thursday. it's too premature to speculate about the names yet. i also read the papers. i've heard names that you don't want to see; i've heard names that you would like to see. i thought i spotted one or two applications for the job here from parliament too. you are welcome to send your applications to the presidency we will look into them. there is still a week left before thursday. and, of course, we hear your concerns about regional balance, gender equality something that i myself think is extremely important. we should be able to show european citizens that europe is not only run by men. but there are, as the prime minister said, only two posts to be created. all those requirements are very difficult to meet, but we will do our best and have listened to your advice. as for the high representative, he or she will provide and finalise the framework that we have just adopted on the european external action service. he or she will do that, together with parliament, before presenting it to the council no later than april next year. as has been said many times, the high representative will also be subject to questions and hearings here in parliament and thereby be able to discuss and develop his or her views on foreign policy. on the economy, i wanted to say to marita ulvskog, who is perhaps not here at the moment, that the swedish presidency is not at all giving up its ambitions on exit strategies. on the contrary, it is extremely important that we stick to the ambition of not now, but in a little while two exit strategies. because if we don't, if we allow our economies to increase budget deficits, that will hurt the most vulnerable people in society, and we don't want to do that. we do see light at the end of the tunnel. there is economic recovery on the way, but we will still suffer in most countries from high unemployment and, therefore, it is too early to implement the exit strategies. however, we need to discuss them and we need to have a plan to do that, if we want to have a sustainable economy to give to future generations. finally, on climate change, we have not lowered our ambitions. the swedish presidency, the commission and many others work day and night. we convince, we negotiate, we argue, we try to drag our partners with us and we try to get them on board. there have been numerous meetings, and there are still meetings left, even if there are only 25 days left to copenhagen. it is true that there is awareness globally and that lots of things are happening in many countries all over the world. that is encouraging, but it is not enough if we want to respect the 2°c target. we do not have all the pieces of the puzzle in order to achieve a legally binding deal: that is a fact. i deplore it, but it is a fact. we can say that we still strive for it, we still do, but it will not happen because several partners say that they are not ready to take this step yet. europe is still in the lead, and we still keep on working for a very ambitious agreement with a clear framework which includes all partners and a timetable for concluding the negotiations. the aim is to replace kyoto with a binding agreement. i wish to thank parliament for the work it is doing on this at present as well as the work it will have to do after copenhagen. europe is still in the lead. we will keep on being in the lead. we have the highest ambitions, so far. we have confirmed the commission's estimates and are backing them. we are ready to play our part. there will be a global distribution key based on emissions and ability to pay. we have a working group looking at the internal burden-sharing. however, the member states did not feel ready yet to reveal the exact figures that we will pay. this is because we want to keep on putting pressure on other countries because they should also pay for this as it is in their interest. so, we will spend every waking minute working on this. we thank you for the encouragement and look forward to working together with parliament on this and other issues.
the commission's vice-president - since the swedish minister spoke french and english, i must speak swedish. i'm not going to lie. i'm going to try to speak swedish and say something about an important point that has been mentioned here today, namely how the text of the new treaty is connected with the reality that we want to change. the text of the lisbon treaty gives us the guidance and the tools we need to make decisions on how to combat climate change, how to deal with the economic crisis and the consequences of it, namely unemployment and social problems. we must also take into account the migration problem and other issues which are at the top of our agenda. it is so that it hangs together, just as michel barnier mentioned earlier. it also includes the implementation, the implementation and the persons we will appoint to sit as our representatives in the commission and the leaders of the top posts that will be added. as we know, at least in swedish, the right man in the right place is often a woman, and i think that applies here too. thank you and i know that i am the chairman of the commission behind me when i say that the procedure which i follow is of course very important from a democratic point of view. the member states also have the opportunity to show that they are not only competent but also capable of applying for jobs, as candidates are women and men. otherwise, we will remain a majority of the eu's population until we become a minority when it comes to making democratic decisions. as václav havel has written and said many times, democracy is nothing that is irrevocably and forever given has fallen into our hands, but democracy is something that we must maintain and constantly fight for, over and over again. we have understood the close cooperation with the swedish presidency and i want to continue, both on my own and on the commission's behalf, to thank you for the hard work that i know the swedish presidency has put in and also for the preparation of the work that is to be carried out. as barroso said earlier, the commission has today decided on the first measure for which it is responsible, namely the so-called citizens' initiative. we start with a broad remissrunda via a grönbok which is sent out with 10 questions. if we can get a response to this by the end of january, we hope that, after a quick process here in parliament, we can have the new citizens' initiative in place and hopefully implemented by the end of next year. this is a good example of how the new provisions and possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty can be used to give citizens a stronger voice and more influence. the commission has already received comments from many of the member states and from the european ministers. the most important strength of självklart is that it is able to speak with one voice and to continue to insist on a strong and comprehensive binding agreement. formen får vi naturligtvis lov att titta på när vi vet vad våra partners kommer med för förbud och motbud. we are also very pleased to have the opportunity to present our partners with a report on the implementation of the reform. until then, i hope that we will continue to work closely together on the implementation of the lisbon treaty. the work must start now, both here and in the commission, and i shall also be happy to present parliament's views to barroso, if the commission's work is to be organised. i 'll say it again . we are the guardians of the treaty, we are the treaty's guardian, so we will naturally have to wait until we follow the treaty. (applause) (applause is heard)
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the eu-russia summit in stockholm on 18 november 2009.
madam president, i consider the problem of combating neurodegenerative diseases, and particularly alzheimer's, to be very serious. it is therefore very useful to have and to achieve coordination of the actions of the countries of the european union in order to tackle the causes, to tackle the problem of prevention, treatment and the consequences of such diseases for patients, the wider public and the public health of the citizens of the european union. i believe that the priority and the main direction should be in the field of prevention and not in the field of medication. the member states should also be encouraged to set up monitoring centres for patients and their carers and to ensure equal scientific participation of states in this european union research effort. finally, the data generated by the database, in consultation with the council and the member states, must be publicly and nationally owned within national systems and the conclusions communicated in public global forums. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
madam president, the great challenge of humanity in the face of climate change is how do we stop accumulating carbon in the atmosphere and start to re-store it in the earth. given that it is unlikely that we will stop emitting carbon in the next 50 years, increasing carbon storage on earth is our only hope and should be a priority of response policies. to achieve this, we need to increase the amount of vegetation. in this context, china has planted 540 million acres of trees, with impressive effects on drinking water availability and agricultural productivity. similar forestry programs in rwanda have resulted in such an increase in the flow of rivers to the capital that it can now be powered exclusively by a hydroelectric plant. to this end, the us house of representatives has passed legislation under which the us will pay $5 billion a year to combat deforestation. for these reasons, the council's position is unacceptable, not only because it has not committed itself to a specific amount of financing for developing countries, but also because it makes no mention of financing for the conservation of the world's forests, at the same time as there is no uniform policy and no coordination at european union level for the protection of the threatened forest ecosystems of the european south. i hope, however, that the european union negotiators in copenhagen will give strong support to the global efforts to stop deforestation and increase forestry.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, on 21 april 2009 the european ombudsman presented to the president-in-office of the european parliament, mr hans-gert poettering, the annual report on his activities for the year 2008. on 14 september of the same year, mr nikiforos diamanturos presented the contents of the same report to the committee on petitions, which had already instructed the speaker to draw up a recommendation which was unanimously adopted by the members of the committee on petitions on 1 october 2009. the written report shall consist of two forms. a short, outdated summary and an extended version of it, detailing the ombudsman's achievements, statistics and interpretative approach, with a view to improving the process and best practice. the data and findings - in both forms - are presented in a reader-friendly way and are supported by illustrative examples that facilitate understanding, evaluation and exploitation of the text. compared with earlier approaches, this new way of presenting statistical data and evaluating conclusions has made the report more comprehensible, but above all more useful, because it goes beyond the limits of a survey and proceeds to policy issues and ways of improvement. an unprecedented number of investigations were completed during 2008. the majority of cases concerned the european commission and far fewer the administration of the european parliament. the most common form of maladministration concerned a lack of transparency. one third of the cases were settled amicably in favour of the party concerned. there were fewer cases where the ombudsman had to make critical remarks to the administrations involved. the commission has also been asked to provide a detailed reply to a number of questions, and in one case a special report to parliament was used to secure a resolution in favour of the injured party. in 2008, the ombudsman concluded an inquiry on his own initiative into delays in payment by the commission, succeeding in taking measures to limit the phenomenon and announcing a review of the matter. the ombudsman's main priority has been to ensure respect for citizens' rights with a view to strengthening the trust of european citizens in its institutions. this was the purpose of his choice to improve the quality of information given to citizens about their rights through the european ombudsman's network. in parallel with the usual practices for resolving the issues imposed by his institutional role, the ombudsman strengthened his contacts with the members and officials of the european institutions, thus promoting a culture of service-mindedness in the union's administrative services, which certainly contributes to the overall objective of mutual respect between the european citizen and the european institutions. as a direct result of this campaign, the number of referrals increased in 2008, indicating that more european citizens were informed and decided to make use of the ombudsman's institution to report on issues relating to the good administration and functioning of the administrative services of the european union, but not only. the ombudsman's website was regularly updated throughout 2008 to develop into a modern, dynamic and interactive service. in concluding the first phase of this oral recommendation for the european ombudsman's annual report, we expect that constructive activity with the european parliament will continue in the same way, that the institution's activity as a model of good administration for national administrations will be promoted and that the institution will remain a channel of communication between the european institutions and european citizens.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i should like to start by saying that we support the ombudsman's report and mrs paliadeli's recommendation, which are both very good and for which we congratulate them. it is a lesson of history that in certain periods of time, but particularly in times of economic crisis, there is a marked disillusionment of citizens with political systems for the administration of justice, while at the same time the increase in the influence of the state at the economic and social level creates an increase in conflicts between citizens and state bodies. the point is that the political system - always, of course, but especially in times like these - must create obstacles to restoring citizens' trust in the administration, the state and the communities. i would venture to say that the counterbalance to the increase in corruption and mismanagement is the increase in the moralization of institutions and the impartiality of the audit bodies. in line with the above considerations, it is understandable to consider that the institution of the european ombudsman is very important in restoring the confidence of european citizens in the institutions and bodies of the european union, and we therefore support any effort to strengthen the institution, to extend its powers and to improve its public image. i therefore ask that we all make every effort to support the work of the european ombudsman and to adopt a citizen-centred approach in all aspects of his work. i'm not sure i'm ready to go.
mr president, i support and vote for mrs palia delli's report and i would like to congratulate mr diamantouros on the work he has done. i would like to stress the fact that a large number of european citizens are often confronted with what we euphemistically call maladministration, which deprives them - after all - of basic rights. in my view, these phenomena are not due to bureaucracy or negligence, but are often due to wrong and unfair policies pursued by the institutions of the european union. the european ombudsman is therefore a means for european citizens to enforce their rights. it is therefore important, mr president, that the european parliament, the only directly elected and representative body of the european union, should give political support to the work of the european ombudsman in order to limit, as far as possible, such phenomena. i would like to say that the report shows that the european ombudsman, and the work of the ombudsman in particular, can, with such support from the european parliament, carry out his work more effectively in the future. in conclusion, i think it is necessary to make an effort to inform european citizens more fully about the role and the possibilities of the european ombudsman, so that they can quickly turn to him when their basic rights are being violated.
mr president, i thank mrs paliadeli for her report. the role of the european ombudsman is indeed particularly crucial, especially at a time when, with the lisbon treaty, we are trying to create a europe closer to the citizen. the role of the european ombudsman is therefore crucial and decisive. i think mr diamantoro has been effective, consistent, worked to promote transparency and address issues related to the lack of it. in addition, it has worked to ensure effective means of redress, both within the european union and within the member states themselves. in this way, a general spirit of service to the citizens by the european institutions is emerging, and of course the citizen - through this whole process and with the effort we must continue to make - feels more confident towards all of us, towards the institutions of the european union. i therefore believe that mr diamantoro has been successful in his work and i think that today's debate and the report presented are decisive for the election of the new european ombudsman for the next term.
european ombudsman. − mr president, let me begin by thanking very warmly all the members of parliament who have made very constructive and very positive remarks about the work of the ombudsman. i deeply appreciate this. i also thank those that have made constructive critical remarks about the work of the ombudsman. that is exactly what i am here for: to learn from your suggestions and your criticisms so as to be able to carry forward the work of the ombudsman, the better to serve citizens in the future. let me say very briefly that the major concerns that i understand you to have expressed have to do with the need for greater transparency and, if re-elected, i will certainly try to redouble my efforts to promote transparency and good administration, for which i feel primarily responsible in the union. the lisbon treaty opens up all sorts of new possibilities, and i certainly intend to make the maximum use of the opportunities allowed me by the treaty, again in order to serve citizens better, cooperating at all times with parliament’s committee on petitions and with this august body. having said that, i would also briefly like to thank commissioner wallström for her work, for her comments and warm words of support, and to repeat and confirm the fact that, as the commission comprises 66% of the union’s entire civil service, it is inevitable that most complaints will be brought against the commission. that is certainly the case. let me address the issues which were brought forward by mr boştinaru and mr czarnecki on the issue of greater cooperation with national ombudsmen, particularly also beyond the eu borders. there are two points here. i certainly have sustained contacts with all the ombudsmen from the candidate countries, who are beyond the eu borders in that sense. beyond that i have very close cooperation with the commissioner for human rights of the council of europe, who has been designated by his institution as the point of contact for all the ombudsmen within the council of europe. my own feeling is that, were i to go beyond that point, i would be entering into the area of international relations contacts, which in fact are the pre-eminent domain of the commission, so i tried to strike a balance in that area. however, i am acutely aware of the need for greater cooperation in all areas and i try to achieve it. on the amount of time that it takes to resolve cases, touched on by mrs göncz, let me just say that we have now been able to reduce the time very significantly, and on average more than 50% – about 55% – of all cases are now closed in less than a year or in about 12 months. if you bear in mind that we need to work in 23 languages, which requires a great deal of translation, i think this is not an excessive time. i am giving you an average, because the simple cases are usually resolved in about three or four months; i just wanted to clarify that point. let me in her absence thank and applaud mrs harkin’s position of support for my position concerning greater transparency even in what are perhaps difficult situations, if i may put it thus. in response to mr vlasák’s comments about the ombudsman, i take these comments very much to heart. but let me point out that the ombudsman should not be judged only in terms of the number of complaints or inquiries that he handles. we handle more than 11 000 requests for information in addition to complaints each year. i travel extensively throughout the member states at all times. during my mandate i have made more than 350 trips throughout the union, and also have reached out to all sorts of constituencies and spoken in large numbers of areas. so the resources that are being expended by the ombudsman to serve citizens go far beyond merely the number of complaints that are handled, and i would like this august body to bear that in mind. i am sure that most of you do know this, but i want to just make that clarification. lastly allow me, since this is the last time that i will address this body during this current mandate, to express from this position my sincere thanks to all the interpreters for the work they have done for me for the past five years.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, i thank the members of this house for their constructive comments and kind words on my report. the committee on petitions and i, who had the great honour of drawing up the recommendation for the annual report on one of the european union's leading institutions, the european ombudsman, have concluded that the activities carried out in 2008 by mr nikafaro diamantouros have served the institution and its obligations with consistency, seriousness and efficiency. by his impartial and objective approach to powerful institutions and bureaucratic views, the european ombudsman has enhanced his authority, not only because he has helped european citizens in matters of administrative red tape or inefficiency, but above all because he has strengthened their trust in the european union and its institutions. we consider that the ombudsman, in 2008, supported the institution with respect for the rule of law and with deep social sensitivity, setting the bar high for the years to come. we hope that the proper management of the ombudsman's duties and rights in the coming years will further promote good administration in the institutions of the european union and encourage a budgetary mentality that is even more friendly to the european citizen. we therefore believe that not only the institution of the european ombudsman, and indirectly therefore the institution of the ombudsmen in the member states, but also the enhanced role of the european parliament in monitoring and selecting the ombudsman will be justified.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr alain lamassoure (a7-0045/2009) on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the transitional procedural guidelines for budgetary matters with a view to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon [2009/2168 (ini) ].
mr lamassoure, this may be the first time in your life that this has happened, but the president is giving you 15 minutes’ speaking time, if you so desire, to close this debate. you may say anything you want to, i guess, or you may stick to the two minutes that are in the agenda for your closing remarks!
that concludes the debate. the vote will be taken at 11.00. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work in a very short time. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is an important step towards the unification of the european union, the strengthening of its institutions and the deepening of our european identity. the treaty of lisbon also introduces important changes to the procedure for adopting the community budget. in view of the specificities of the budgetary procedure, we must, in the course of the forthcoming meetings with the council, secure the adoption of transitional guidelines until the legal texts provided for in the new treaty have been adopted. these transitional provisions are intended to ensure equal treatment of the institutions - and in particular of parliament - in accordance with the new powers which it will acquire under the new treaty. however, apart from the adoption of the transitional provisions, our priority must be to propose as soon as possible and then to adopt the regulation which will include both the union's multiannual financial framework and the financial regulation. the european commission's proposals for these two texts should be presented as a package to be negotiated jointly with the council.
mr president, i would like to explain my vote on the right of citizens of the western balkans to obtain a visa. the left's constant position is that it is the right of all people to move and travel freely, therefore every citizen should have the right to move and enter the european union. while i therefore agree with the lifting of restrictions and visa requirements for the inhabitants of the western balkans, i voted against the vote on the subject on the grounds that the way in which it puts the issue and refers to kosovo is essentially a de facto confirmation of its unilateral recognition as an independent state. this, in my view, violates the un charter and security council resolution 1244 of 1999. it is a practice that is drifting in a direction that does not promote the peaceful settlement of disputes, security and stability in the region.
mr president, allow me to share my concerns with my colleagues about the discrepancy between turkey's progress report on its accession to the european union and the publication in the recent edition of the wall street journal europe that the prime minister of turkey, on a recent visit to iran, affirmed - and supported the views of iran - that the nuclear programme of that country serves only peaceful and charitable purposes, as he said. the disagreement is also very clear in the fact that turkey's whole behaviour - as happened on 8 and 9 november in connection with the visit of the president of sudan to istanbul - is a major issue. i would therefore ask my colleagues to take these concerns into account.
mr president, in view of the opening of negotiations for an agreement between the european union and turkey on the readmission of illegal immigrants, i would like to stress the need for turkey to commit itself to cooperating in combating illegal immigration. i would remind you that 76.5% of all arrests of illegal immigrants at the european union's borders take place at the greek border. we know very well that where third countries have cooperated - typical examples being italy with libya and spain with mauritania - the results have been tangible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further worsened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in turkey is not so bad as it is in the european union.
mr president, the imperialist policy of support for israel by the usa and nato, the upgrading of relations and, more generally, the issues covered by the eu-israel association agreement are reinforcing israel's aggression and intolerance against the palestinian people. according to the data, this year is the bloodiest for the palestinian people. during the israeli army's "cast lead" war in gaza alone, 1,443 palestinians were murdered, 9,600 palestinians are being held illegally in israeli prisons without trial, the wall of shame is being extended to 450 kilometres with plans to extend it to 750, and homes and infrastructure in the west bank and east jerusalem are being demolished. we express our solidarity with the palestinian people and call for an immediate and just and viable solution to the question of palestine: the establishment of an independent palestinian state in the 1967 territories, with east jerusalem as its capital, with sovereignty over its territory and borders and with provision for the return of refugees; the european union is committed to the restoration of peace and stability in the middle east, and to the restoration of the peace process in the region.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think that i can join all those who have said that this a nice piece of collaboration in order to get a nice piece of legislation. no piece of legislation is perfect; this one is not perfect, either, and you know how much time we need in order to set up new legislation – so that by the time we arrive at an agreement, the world has already advanced so much that we should start from the beginning again. that is exactly the reason why we said that the protection of the individual rights on net neutrality is the first step; another step which needs to follow is how the copyright has to be adapted to the online world. because we cannot wait until all these rules are implemented into national law, i have, in the name of the commission, said that the commission will monitor the impact of market and technological developments on the net freedoms and report to the european parliament and the council before the end of 2010. we then, altogether, have to see if we need to take other, supplementary measures or if we have to push to implement the existing measures which we are going to vote on tomorrow in the action at the level of the member states. two concrete answers to two concrete questions: first, the declaration on article 19 relating to harmonisation procedures. exactly like parliament, i regret that 16 member sates have made a declaration which calls into question the scope of the commission’s powers, agreed between the parliament and the council under the amended article 19, in particular the commission’s power in relation to the regulatory obligations that might be imposed by national regulatory authorities (nras). so, because there were those 16 declarations, the commission has also made a declaration pointing out that, while it may not take decisions under the article that refer to specific notifications by nras under article 7a, it may take decisions in relation to general regulatory approaches relating to the imposition, maintenance, amendment or withdrawal of such obligations. parliament is right, an agreement has been made and we should not come back to such an agreement by the back door. second, the question of cookies. now the commission was, like mr harbour, surprised that certain member states appeared to call the agreed text on cookies into question. let me be very clear: we agreed with parliament, and we believe that the final text is unambiguous. first, there must be clear and comprehensive information to users on the basis of which second users must give their consent. that is that and that should be applied now in the member states. i do not appreciate it that after everything has been agreed, some like to manoeuvre in order not to keep 100% to the agreements pacta sunt servanda in politics. that is the way i see things. so i am very proud of the european institutions. i think that they have managed to make a good piece of legislation. they have also managed to keep this equilibrium between the interests of the operators, the economical part of the rules, and the interests of the users, the citizens’ rights, and this equilibrium i think is what europe is about: europe is about economy and society. here in this text we have managed to bring both together. congratulations to all those who have contributed to make this possible.
colleagues, you can imagine my frustration at not being able to participate in this debate, so i will simply use my institutional role at the end of it to congratulate warmly catherine trautmann, pilar del castillo vera and malcolm harbour for their work; to thank the commission, and especially commissioner reding, for their excellent cooperation throughout a very difficult process; and to state that it would have been a pleasure to have welcomed the council to this important debate, as it might have been better able than the rest of us to explain those surprising letters that were mentioned, on some legal aspects of this debate.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by timothy díaz kirkhope, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the implementation of council decision 2001/480/cfsp c19/07/2009 concerning the adoption of the council decision on the adoption of the rules on the confidentiality of information of europol [11943/2009 - c7-0105/2009 - 2009/0807 (cns) ] (cns) c19/072/2009 on the adoption of the protocol between the european parliament, the council and the commission on the implementation of council decision 2001/cfsp c19/081/cns) concerning the adoption of the protocol between the kingdom of spain and the kingdom of portugal on the adoption of the protocol between the european union and the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway on the adoption of the protocol between the european union and the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway on the adoption of the protocol between the european union and the republic of iceland and the european union on the adoption of the protocol between the european union and the european union on the adoption of the protocol between the european union and the european union on the adoption of the protocol between the european union on the adoption of the european and the protocol between the european union on the adoption of the european union on the adoption of the protocol between the european union on the adoption of the european union on the proposal of the european union on the proposal of the european union on the proposal of the european parliament, on the council, on the proposal of the council, on the proposal of the european union, by the european union, by the european union, by the european parliament and the european parliament, the council, the european parliament, the council, the european parliament, the european union on the european union on the internal market, the internal market, and the internal market,
madam president, we are at a critical juncture for the planet. the scientific community through the ipcc is calling on the european union and its member states to commit to a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared to 1990 levels. the existing commitments of the european union are only 50% of what the ipcc reports call for as a strictly necessary commitment. the ipcc is to climate change what the international monetary fund is to economics. i ask: could the commission ever deviate by 50% from targets which the international monetary fund would indicate as absolutely necessary? and yet, the european union insists on raising the emissions reduction target to 30% by 2020 if other developed countries commit to comparable emission reductions. given the current situation, what kind of commitments, what kind of commitments and what kind of commitments and from which countries exactly would be able to trigger the above offer and what climate policies exactly would be reviewed in this case and what preparation has been made for this?
the next item is voting. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
in writing. the european parliament's centre-left and centre-right political forces are voting in favour of the telecommunications and internet legislative package on the grounds of competition and security, i.e. safeguarding the profits of monopolies and restricting the freedoms and rights of workers. the same political forces, while using demagogic slogans to defend the rights of users and free access to the internet against the arbitrariness of monopoly business groups, supported the reactionary proposals of the commission, helping to promote the interests of capital. the european parliament resolution promotes capitalist restructuring in order to make companies gigantic in the perspective of developing the 'green economy', in order to dominate at european and global level by multiplying their profits at the expense of workers and users of their services. monopolies are legitimized to monitor and restrict users' access to the internet. at the same time, their profits are ensured by the harmonisation of the radio spectrum and the 'functional separation' of fixed telephony and internet services from the necessary infrastructure. we oppose the council-european parliament proposal and stand in solidarity with workers and users of electronic communications who continue to assert their rights and freedoms against the reactionary policy of the eu, the parties of capital.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job, has put straightforward questions and has insisted on the need for clear answers before we proceed to the discharge. the committee on budgetary control must also be congratulated for having stood firm in support of the rapporteur and, despite the initial difficulties, for having succeeded in persuading the council to give us answers to the most important questions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that would be completely illogical. the council's replies have now been received and we are now ready to grant the discharge, but we have also made substantial comments in the accompanying resolution, which the committee on budgetary control has approved by a very large majority. we want and believe in open procedures, we want and believe in transparency and we want to have full knowledge of how european taxpayers' money is spent.
member of the commission. − my answer to the last question is no, this is a completely different thing. it is about the origin of the product. we are talking now about health claims. when a producer makes a claim that a product is good for your health, for this or that reason, then it has to be scientifically substantiated that this really is so. as regards the other question, of course efsa examines health claims made at the time of application, on the basis of the scientific evidence given at the time of application. obviously, if a claim is made on the basis of certain scientific evidence and the producer then alters the product, this is clearly a question of fraud, and action will be taken against that producer, because they are not only misleading the public but also defrauding the public.
member of the commission. − the question is about varying consumer rights and is very timely. in all member states, there are institutions and organisations that have the task of promoting knowledge and understanding of consumer rights for their citizens. an overview of these national institutions and organisations is available on the website. i could of course provide you with the website. it is http://ec.europa.eu/consumers/empowerment/cons_networks_en.htm, and it is really very interesting to browse around. the commission promotes awareness of consumer rights through various instruments. we sponsor an eu-wide network of consumer centres that provides consumers with information on their rights when shopping across borders and supports them with seeking redress when something goes wrong. the centres’ websites, leaflets and brochures explain to consumers what their rights are, for example, when shopping online, renting a car or booking holidays in another member states. the commission would therefore recommend that members of the european parliament refer their constituents to the european consumer centre located in their respective country. moreover, the commission conducts information campaigns in member states who newly joined the eu to raise awareness of consumer rights and promote national organisations and institutions where consumers can find further help and assistance. the commission also promotes knowledge of rights through its consumer education initiatives such as the ‘europe diary’ that targets students aged between 15 and 18 and dolceta – a website targeting adults and teachers. last but not least, in october 2008 the commission presented its proposal for a directive on consumer rights, which is currently the subject of negotiations in parliament and council. this directive, if adopted, will reduce the current fragmentation of the consumer acquis and ensure that all consumers in the eu will benefit from a single simple set of consumer rights, and this would make it easier to conduct pan-european education campaigns on consumer rights. the commission is currently carrying out research and fact-finding on information to consumers at the point of sale, and it intends to consult retail experts, consumer organisations and other stakeholders on the ground before proposing concrete measures. i also have some news which is very important for us. we have two new extensions to the dolceta information website. we have added two more areas to it: one is sustainable consumption, and the other is services of general interest, so we are expanding.
member of the commission. − this is very much in the domain of the public authorities in the member states. the commission could ask to see that there are public authorities engaged with this. we have a network of such authorities. we gather information from time to time, but our focus is, on the subsidiarity level, on what we could do at cross-border or pan-european level. otherwise, it is very much divided from country to country. this is part of education, and as we know, education is very much in the hands of member states. regarding complaints, what i do is gather together all the complaints and, within the framework of the consumer market scoreboard, see what level those complaints are at, compare them with consumer satisfaction, and then draw the necessary conclusions as to how consumers are treated. you are absolutely right that we need to compare how many complaints are coming in different domains. that is why we propose – and are working on – a common complaint form in europe, because the information which currently comes to the public authorities in country ‘x’ is not filed in the same way as it is filed in country ‘z’. if we have this common complaint form, it is not so that the commission will become a kind of ombudsman on consumer affairs, but to develop our policy from these complaints and be more relevant to citizens. i believe that this really is an important project for the future. we do really have quite limited rights to intervene in how the member states deal with national complaints and how they respond. we could make a scoreboard and we can set a benchmark, but we cannot substitute the presence of the particular member state. i am very eager to continue in the european commission, together with parliament, to benchmark and measure how consumers are treated and how much member states invest in this policy. i think it is a very good investment, especially now in difficult economic times, to see how consumers are treated, because this gives good information about the market.
member of the commission. − i had the privilege of working with mr harbour, which i very much enjoyed, so please let me thank you specifically and personally for this opportunity over the last three years. believe me, i will remain a very dedicated market economy politician because the market is not simple, but a kind of laboratory for civil rights. i am very glad that we are so close to the same rights that are now so important for the whole of mankind, these being environmental rights. the consumer portfolio is really very important. it is about the market and the retail market, but there is something more, something in addition, which is the issue of rights, enforcement, consumer complaints, and how to devise a more relevant policy. i am absolutely certain that president barroso will find the right balance, because in his speech he said that we need to find the missing links in the internal market. i think that one of these missing links is the retail market. i am absolutely certain that the president will pay full attention to consumer issues one way or another, and i am convinced the policy will remain very stable. i shall, however, certainly pass on the message.
member of the commission. − the commission is well aware of this practice by car hire companies and has responded to a number of other parliamentary questions and citizens’ complaints about it. i personally receive many of them. i have said before that such a practice is unacceptable if it results in consumers paying for fuel they have not used without their being clearly informed in advance. the package travel directive would only apply if car rentals are included in a holiday package. however, the package travel directive does not regulate this particular issue. on the other hand, these practices could be contrary to the unfair commercial practices directive and the unfair contract terms directive. first of all, under the unfair contract terms directive standard terms and conditions must not be significantly unbalanced to the detriment of consumers. moreover, contract terms should be drafted in plain and intelligible language. it may be argued that a clause resulting in consumers paying in practice for something they have not consumed is unfair. secondly, the unfair commercial practices directive obliges traders to live up to the standard of professional diligence. traders must be open and up-front about the main characteristics of the service provided. car hire companies who do not inform customers that unconsumed fuel will not be reimbursed may be in breach of this directive. this practice might also be considered as contrary to the standard of professional diligence which this directive requires traders to live up to. however, the honourable member should be aware that it is up to national enforcement authorities to determine whether such practices are unfair and to pursue the offending companies. the commission does not have any enforcement powers; consumers who have purchased cross-border services can, however, complain to the european consumer centre in their home country, which should be able to help them receive redress from traders in other eu countries. but i believe that we need to do everything possible to ensure that there are no loopholes in the legislation and that consumers are not left with a sense of unfairness, hopelessness or helplessness.
member of the commission. − as stated, it is up to the national authorities to enforce the relevant law and, however critical we might be vis-à-vis our european institutions, i think that we need also to bear in mind that we are acting under the principle of subsidiarity and there are certain areas where the commission cannot take direct action. i think it would be very proper if we also stressed the responsibility of the member states; otherwise i think that we have a good story coming from parliament, because the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) is presently involved in an own-initiative report on consumer protection, for which the rapporteur is ms anna hedh. as agreed during the last imco committee meeting, this own-initiative report will cover both the consumer-market scoreboard and the legislation enforcement which we are talking about, for which the commission had issued a communication on 2 july 2009. we are tackling enforcement, but without the member states it will be very difficult to succeed. but i fully recognise the seriousness of the problem – believe me, i share the same anxiety, receiving lots of complaints and not being able to have one practical line and solve the issue instead of a member state.
member of the commission. − i think that this is one of the most important ideas, which we need to develop in the future. first of all the services directive because, clearly, our economy and our lives depend so much on services, and we cannot just leave companies with a bad reputation to spoil an entire sector of industry. we need to fight against bad practices and we need to always protect consumers. but, est modus in rebus, we really need to find the responsibility of the member state and that of the commission. we have a network of public authorities through which we are making our sweeps around the member states. if we have some kind of a code of conduct, to which mr harbour referred, or we detect a breach of legislation of unfair commercial practices, the centres and the different public authorities might be advised to check all the rental car services in the member states and clean up the market. we did it with airlines, whose websites were offering tickets, we did it with ringtones, we did it with electronic goods. why not step up our efforts and do some kind of enforcement sweep in the car rental industry also?
vice-president of the commission. - mr. deputy, i have to go. that question gives me the opportunity to tell you a most gratifying success story. the 'reducing red tape for european business' programme is one of the pillars of the better regulation programme. i first spoke in the spring of 2006 about my aim to reduce the bureaucratic costs for european businesses of european rules by 25% by 2012 and that this requires the commission to make proposals by the end of 2009. the commission has not only put forward the appropriate proposals, but has done more than that. it did so on the basis of a measurement we carried out throughout europe. everyone can tell you that we are saving 25%, if no one knows what the actual costs of bureaucracy in europe are. we therefore organised the largest survey ever carried out to determine the real costs to european businesses of european legislation and its implementation, in terms of documentation, statistics, information, etc. the result was about what we expected. this cost to european companies is €124 billion a year. this represents about 50% of the total expenditure incurred by european enterprises as bureaucratic burdens. we are therefore producing 50% of it here in strasbourg or brussels. i would now like to add expressly to the british press and british members of this house: it would be completely wrong to conclude that the single market is a mere bureaucracy costing eur 124 billion. if we did not have these european rules, we would have 27 different national rules in all these areas, and the burden on european companies - in so far as they are involved in the single market - would be many times greater. i say this very clearly, with a certain sharpness, because i am really tired of hearing in certain media in europe slanderous remarks about the costs of the internal market. nevertheless, we believe that 124 billion is too much and that by better regulation we can achieve the full objectives of our legislation while reducing the costs. the commission has therefore put forward the appropriate proposals, and the result is as follows, i will give you the figures: the measures already adopted by the legislator, which are therefore already in force, reduce the bureaucratic costs for european companies by eur 7 billion a year. the savings potential of the measures proposed by the commission and not yet adopted by the legislator is €31 billion per year. and the commission is working on some additional proposals which will be tabled shortly, which again represent a saving potential of over 2 billion euros, so that we are coming to a total saving potential of over 40 billion a year. this means that the 25% reduction target will be more than met if the measures are actually adopted by the legislator. the programme is complemented by corresponding national programmes in all the member states. i am pleased to tell you that all 27 member states now have similar programmes in place. it will not surprise you to hear that no member state has yet managed to present the record of success that i have been able to do today.
mr president, commissioner, in the commission's action programme of 22 october you mentioned, among other things, the exemption of micro-entities from accounting requirements. in my view, commissioner, there are other more important obstacles of a legislative, administrative and fiscal nature. very few very small enterprises have an activity with a cross-border dimension; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i would like your answer to this specific but specific question.
vice-president of the commission. - mr. deputy, i have to go. you probably know my personal view, which is a little more radical than yours. i personally am very much of the opinion that micro-enterprises which are not active in the internal market are not our business at all - neither the european legislator nor the european commission. but you know, mr president, that you and i are in the minority on this. in every sitting of this house - and especially at question time - i have heard several proposals relating to the conduct of business by small and micro-enterprises. that means you have a lot of convincing to do. however, by introducing the sme specific test i.e. the sme test , the commission has ensured that the impact assessment looks very closely at the consequences for smes and micro-enterprises and, wherever possible, the principle is to exclude micro-enterprises from the rules. let me give you a recent example. the commission has proposed to exempt micro-enterprises from the european accounting rules. this would save these costs by 7 billion euros a year. i am sorry to tell you that the committee responsible for the european parliament has rejected the commission's proposal and i am sorry to tell you that there is organised opposition to this proposal - you can easily imagine who is organising this opposition. the commission nevertheless maintains its position on this proposal. it is a very central part of our policy for small and mediumsized enterprises and for reducing the bureaucratic costs for the micro-enterprises.
vice-president of the commission. - mr. deputy, i have to go. the lisbon treaty is a change in legal terms: it provides for tourism as a third-level community competence, i.e. the community can act in a complementary way to support the activities of the member states, but cannot propose harmonising legislation in this field. in practice, the lisbon treaty does not change anything in the present situation, because what the lisbon treaty now makes legally possible we have already achieved in the form of voluntary cooperation with the member states a few years ago. in other words, the member states agreed a few years ago that the commission should contribute to tourism policy. we have also been able to take a number of concrete decisions together with the member states. the fact that tourism now has its own place in the european treaty will mean that tourism will be given a greater importance in our overall policy for growth and employment. if i have anything to leave as a legacy to the next commission, it is this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is clear that europe is still the most attractive destination for tourists from all over the world. but we are dealing with massive structural changes. we are facing a lot of competition, especially from asia. we must make a great effort to ensure that europe remains the world leader in tourism. if you ask me what i think is the first thing that is required, i would say: all tourism operators - the regions, the member states and the community institutions - must do more to make europe a better known tourism brand, a quality mark, in the world. we have taken the first steps in this direction and i believe that more is possible. i hope that in the next few years, on the basis of the clear political signal given by the lisbon treaty with regard to tourism policy, we will see greater use made here in parliament, in the council and in the commission of the opportunities for promoting and developing european tourism. i am firmly convinced that this is an area in which we can make a significant contribution to growth and, above all, to jobs in regions of europe where there is virtually no alternative, where tourism alone provides really good jobs.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the global economic crisis has also had a negative impact on tourism. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. secondly, what initiatives will the commission take to boost europe's internal tourism? and thirdly, what measures will you take to attract tourists from other countries outside the european union?
vice-president of the commission. - mr. deputy, i have to go. the first question is, you can always try. during the austrian presidency, several attempts were made to coordinate the start of the holidays, but without any success. i would urge that we make another attempt, but i would caution against expecting too much. the idea that certain tourist areas can coordinate their holiday seasons in europe so that these tourist areas are occupied all year round is an illusion and would not have my support. all people have the right to take holidays in the season that suits them best and is also of the greatest recreational value. but you are absolutely right in saying that neighbouring countries should agree that the holidays do not always and everywhere have to start on the same day. these are things which i believe are possible and which should be seriously addressed not only in the context of tourism policy but also in the context of environmental and transport policy. as regards the second question, we have studied the impact of the economic crisis on tourism in depth, and we found in a survey of over 50 000 people across europe that people are still going on holiday - so they are not giving up their holiday - but the trips are getting shorter, the money is being spent less, and the holidays are being spent more often in their own country. but the same standard is required, i.e. those who can offer a particular price-performance ratio will now benefit. the commission's action in this field can only be complementary to that of the member states. we do not have a per se autonomous european tourism policy, and it would be too much to list the many initiatives which have been taken to promote europe's attractiveness as a tourist destination throughout the world and within europe. i will mention just one example because it has been particularly successful recently. we launched the 'outstanding european destinations' competition three years ago. here tourism regions in europe are asked to present their achievements under certain themes, and here, in three years of experience, it has been shown that in almost all aspects we have excellent tourism opportunities throughout europe. the key is to make these tourist offers known. this is why we have created a web portal that makes it possible to access all tourism-related information from all european member states with a single click.
member of the commission. − mr president, mr mep, as you know, the primary responsibility for developing and implementing policy measures to respond to the crisis and, more specifically, to its impact on employment lies with the member states. despite this, the commission has taken a number of initiatives since the crisis erupted last autumn to mitigate the impact of the financial and economic crisis on the labour market. the european economic recovery plan presented by the commission in november 2008 and endorsed by the european council addresses pressing issues and, in addition, calls for investments that should result in long-term benefits for the union. the recovery plan emphasises the importance of implementing integrated policies, summarised under the term 'flexicurity', in order to protect european citizens from the worst effects of the crisis. in this context, it emphasises the strengthening of activation regimes, retraining and upskilling, better alignment of skills supply with labour market needs and the need to support the most vulnerable. the aim is to protect employment and long-term employment rather than specific jobs. experience shows that the fundamental objectives of flexicurity i.e. the ability to adapt to change and to facilitate transitions between jobs are of the greatest importance in times of economic downturn and increasing labour market instability. the integrated approach provides a coherent policy framework to coordinate efforts to address the employment and social impact of the crisis, and can help to strike a balance between short-term measures to address immediate needs, such as temporary reductions in working hours, and long-term reforms, such as through upskilling and active labour market policies. the recovery plan was followed by an employment summit in may this year. on that occasion, the key stakeholders expressed a common commitment to mitigate the impact of the economic crisis on employment in the european union. following the employment summit, the commission adopted on 3 june a communication entitled 'a common commitment to employment' which sets out three key priorities for action: maintaining employment, creating jobs and promoting mobility, upskilling and matching the skills supply to labour market needs and improving access to the labour market. these three key priorities were endorsed by the european council in june. the commission is convinced that cooperation with and between the social partners is very important, especially in times of crisis and in the event of restructuring. the social partners have a crucial role to play in the design and implementation of economic recovery measures. at national level, this role is derived from the tradition and practice of involving the social partners in the definition and implementation of labour market policies. consultations are ongoing at european union level on the proposed policies, in particular in the framework of the tripartite social summit. cooperation with the european union's social partners has intensified this year in connection with preparations for the abovementioned employment summit and the communication of 3 june.
we are pleased that you too, mr president, mr commissioner, as your speech showed, consider the active involvement of the social partners to be extremely important for the democratic character and effectiveness of the social dialogue, especially at this crucial moment of the economic crisis, when we are faced with a decline in employment, unemployment, precarious work and so much more. however, given the purely formal nature of this participation so far, we would like to know whether the commission intends to take specific institutional measures to ensure that there is a real involvement at both european and national level, with specific directives from the european union.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, i must say that article 138 of the ec treaty sets out clearly the position of the social partners and their role in the discussion of all important social issues. the commission makes full use of this framework, which is why there have also been agreements between the social partners in some areas that have been transposed or are in the process of being transposed into european directives. as regards institutional or legislative changes, you are well aware that the european commission proposed and, in the context of this debate, adopted an amendment to the european works council directive, which strengthens the position of the european social partners, particularly in the negotiations on transnational restructuring. you know as well as i do that the european commission supports the use of all these instruments to intervene effectively in the labour market. i would also like to emphasise that the european commission is also very active in international organisations, i.e. it actively promotes and supports the application of the ilo's fundamental agreements and conventions both at global level and, of course, at european level. in any event, during the mandate of this commission, there has been a shift in the framework of cooperation with the social partners, and i am sure that this path will continue, because, as i have already stated, the debate with the social partners is part of the ec treaty, it is a specific feature of our european law and, in my view, it is undeniable progress.
mr president, commissioner, the european union's employment strategy marks a new set of capitalist restructuring measures to safeguard and increase capital profits through the intensification of the exploitation of workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is your answer, commissioner, to the unemployed, to the workers with flexible temporary uninsured work who have been working for more than four or five years in the public and private sectors, in the notorious stage, and have already been announced to be dismissed? what is your response to women who, on the pretext of gender equality, have been told that the retirement age will be raised from 5 to 17 years, as is the case in greece?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of mrs ashton. as regards the euro-mediterranean free trade area, its establishment by 2010 was a realistic objective and we will have made considerable progress towards this goal by next year, although it is clear that much remains to be done to fully realise the potential for economic integration in the euro-mediterranean area. progress has been made particularly in the north-south dimension. the european union has concluded bilateral association agreements with all its mediterranean partners, with the exception of syria, which mainly concern the exchange of goods. however, further bilateral negotiations are under way to further promote trade in agricultural products, services and freedom of establishment, and to establish a binding dispute settlement mechanism. some of these negotiations have already been concluded and others are expected to be concluded by 2010. as regards the new negotiations between the european union and the mediterranean partners and the role of the european parliament, i can say that, again in the north-south dimension, at the euro-mediterranean trade ministers' conference on 9 december we expect to reach agreement on a euro-mediterranean trade roadmap beyond 2010, reflecting the objective of gradually transforming the current euromed association agreements into comprehensive and far-reaching free trade agreements. it is not a question of negotiating new association agreements, but rather of developing and strengthening existing ones to address issues such as trade facilitation, technical barriers and sanitary and phytosanitary issues, as well as public procurement, competition, intellectual property rights, trade and aspects relating to sustainable development and transparency. bilateral negotiations will be tailored to the situation of each partner in the southern mediterranean. morocco could be the first mediterranean country with which negotiations will be opened next year. it is clear that, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, this parliament will have a strengthened role in trade. the commission is ready to work closely with you in the future negotiations i have just mentioned. the euro-mediterranean free trade area also has a south-south dimension. the mediterranean partners are creating a network of free trade agreements between themselves and the agadir agreement, in force since 2007, is also open to other mediterranean countries. israel and turkey have also concluded free trade agreements with their mediterranean partners, and other agreements are under negotiation. it is too early to make a full assessment of the current agadir agreement. trade between the four partners increased, albeit less than initially expected. this may be due to a number of reasons, such as the existence of non-tariff barriers, the lack of complementarity between the different markets, the lack of a regional market capable of attracting investors and, last but not least, the fact that companies are not sufficiently aware of the possibilities offered by such agreements. the euro-mediterranean roadmap on trade after 2010 should help to overcome this problem. it also includes a number of concrete proposals for the short term. one of them is the euro-mediterranean trade and investment facility. the establishment of this mechanism will provide free, up-to-date, comprehensive and easily accessible information on trade, investment conditions and regulation in the euro-mediterranean region and aims to help businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, to operate on euro-mediterranean markets. as regards sustainability, as with all our free trade areas, the commission carried out a sustainability impact assessment, which was completed in december 2007 and is used for both current and future negotiations. in particular, on trade-related issues, the stability pact stressed the importance of long transitional periods which had been provided for in the association agreements for the elimination of industrial tariffs by the southern mediterranean countries and the need to provide for such transitional periods in the negotiations on agricultural projects currently under way. the need to take account of the level of development of the southern mediterranean partners in the current talks on services and establishment also emerged. in addition, in many of these countries the commission is supporting tax reform programmes that can help to reduce the negative effects of the decline in tariff revenues reported in the sia. as regards the agreement with syria, to which i referred earlier, in 2008 the commission launched a review of the draft association agreement in order to determine whether technical amendments and updates are necessary before it can be concluded. a round of talks was enough, in which we agreed with the syrians on the changes to be made to take account of the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union and the tariff changes introduced in both syria and the union after the suspension of the talks in 2004. the agreement was signed in december 2008. last month we announced that the union is now ready for signature. syria has delayed the conclusion of the agreement to analyse its economic implications. as regards libya, negotiations were opened in november 2008 in brussels to conclude a framework agreement centred on an ambitious free trade agreement on goods, services and freedom of establishment, as well as regulatory cooperation. the conclusion of this agreement with libya will be the final piece of the puzzle. the union will have concluded free trade agreements with all its mediterranean neighbours by then, even though libya is not part of the union's neighbourhood policy. with the conclusion of this trade agreement, union exporters will find new export opportunities and a more favourable regulatory environment in libya, in particular in the services and oil and natural gas markets. of course, the negotiations with tripoli are still in their early stages and will still require some time to conclude. in this process, the commission will pay particular attention to the development of capacity building within the libyan administration on trade and related issues. a sustainability impact assessment is also being finalised for libya.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, we support the strategic euro-mediterranean partnership and the consolidation of political, economic and cultural cooperation and, more generally, peace, security and stability in the region. we call on the ministers to adopt at the next conference a road map for the realisation of the euro-mediterranean free trade area. the bilateral approach must be accompanied by a regional approach. i also think that, in addition to the north-south dimension, the south-south regional economic integration, to which both the president of the committee on international trade, mr moreira, and the commissioner, mr tajani, referred, is particularly important. i would like to stress the need to incorporate social and environmental considerations and plant health standards into the opening up of markets. we also have to deal with some serious issues concerning the import of agricultural products into the european union. i personally am in favour of strengthening the barcelona process: union for the mediterranean, and the programmes announced within its framework in strategic areas such as cooperation between smes and the exploitation of renewable energy sources. finally, i would like to emphasize the development of the maritime corridors and the proposal put forward by greece last summer to set up a transport observatory in the eastern mediterranean based in greece.
mr president, it is important that the treaty of lisbon has finally come into force. the european union has been unable to find the institutional means to function effectively after the enlargement of the union to include 12 new member states. but today we are in a new reality. there is the president of the council - and we are all assured that he is the person who will seek consensus and agreement - and there is the high representative for foreign affairs. it is of no consequence to comment in advance whether they are suitable or not in relation to those who were advertised before or in relation to those who were supposed to have expertise in these matters. the question is how the treaty is to be applied. the commission's cooperation with the european parliament is also of great importance here. the role of the parliament is being strengthened, but in order to strengthen it in substance and to make it clear to the european citizens, it is necessary that the european commission urgently raise the issues, since it has the initiative in the european council. the council is supposed to work more quickly, since it will no longer function as before with the presidencies of the member states and governments will not be given the opportunity to use the councils to claim that what is good is done by governments and what is bad and annoying is done by brussels. the council of ministers has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take a decision on it in the near future. we have been told about other subjects in general. it is true that enlargement to the western balkans and turkey, on the basis of the european commission's proposals, is faced with a number of doubts and a number of challenges, despite the objective of these countries' accession to the european union.
in writing. the kke is opposed to and votes against the amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament to bring them into line with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. the amendments maintain and reinforce the reactionary and anti-democratic character of the european parliament's rules of procedure, which form a suffocating framework for any opposing voice opposing the domination of the political representatives of capital. it is a lie that the lisbon treaty gives the eu a 'more democratic dimension' because it allegedly upgrades the role of the european parliament. the european parliament is a component of the reactionary structure of the eu. it has proved its commitment to the reactionary policy of the eu, its support for the interests of the monopolies, its role as an instrument of democratic legitimization of the eu's anti-people policy. the european parliament does not represent the people but the interests of capital. it is in the interest of the peoples to resist, to break with the anti-people policy of the eu and the european parliament which supports it, to overthrow the european union's structure.
in writing. i voted against, firstly because amendment no 13 was adopted, which considers nuclear energy to be an important component in reducing carbon dioxide emissions, and secondly because amendment no 3 by my group, which called for developed countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions below 1990 levels by 80 and 95% by 2050, was rejected. there are many positive elements in the resolution, such as the eu committing €30 billion per year by 2020 to meet the needs of developing countries in the area of climate change mitigation and adaptation. but i think that turning to nuclear energy as an antidote to global warming is not only not the solution to combating climate change, it is a dangerous option. the trio of developed - developing - underdeveloped countries and governments - grassroots movements - people will collide in copenhagen as climate change greatly undermines efforts to reduce poverty and hunger in the world. the copenhagen conference is a real challenge to which we must respond and not let the industrial and nuclear lobbies prove to be the big winners.
in writing. the growing risks to the environment and health, and especially the dangerous climate change and global warming, are the result of industrial development guided by capitalist profit, the commercialization of land, air, energy and water. the real solution to these problems cannot be found in the power of capital, i.e. in the power of those who are responsible for creating them. the road to the copenhagen conference is being blocked by the sharpening of inter-imperialist contradictions. with proposals for a 'sustainable, green economy' and 'low-carbon' economic growth, the eu is trying to further open the way to investment by eu monopolies and at the same time satisfy the speculative expectations of capital through the 'pollutant market'. in order to plan and implement a development path which will contribute to the balanced relationship between man and nature and to the satisfaction of the needs of the people, capitalist production relations must, in the final analysis, be overthrown. the kke votes against the ep resolution. it proposes the combined satisfaction of the people's needs according to the wealth produced in our country. the political conditions for the realization of the above objective are the socialization of the basic means of production and the central planning of economic life, with popular workers' control, the people's power-people's economy.
in writing. the kke is categorically opposed to the stockholm programme, just as it was opposed to previous programmes to implement the eu's pseudo-area of freedom, security and justice (afsj). the aim, despite the eu's demagogic declarations, is to harmonize or homogenize national legislation in order to implement the eu's anti-people policy in a uniform manner; strengthening existing and creating new mechanisms of prosecution and repression at eu level, under the pretext of striking at terrorism and organised crime. the first priority of the 'stockholm programme' is to intensify the eu's anti-communist hysteria, which is in full swing, culminating in the unhistorical and unacceptable equation of communism with nazism. the eu's nap and its programmes not only do not meet the people's interests, but are instead a set of measures which slaughter individual and social rights and democratic freedoms, intensify authoritarianism and repression against workers, migrants and refugees; they shield the political system and the dominance of monopolies; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted against the proposal for a number of reasons, and i will mention the main ones in detail. in fact, its basic dimension is the philosophy of 'security' and fear, at the expense of basic rights and freedoms. but security is guaranteed precisely by the protection and respect of these rights in a society of law. it strengthens the perception and the possibility of implementing a fortress europe that treats migrants as potential terrorists and criminals and at best 'accepts' their presence, not as people with equal rights, but according to the needs of the eu labour market. it promotes abhorrent mass deportations, does not strengthen the right of access to asylum, opens the way for the eu to be actively involved in refugee camps outside its borders and to impose lenient agreements with third countries, without regard for the safeguarding of human rights. finally, although much more could be said, the resolution consolidates policies that multiply the various bodies that monitor, collect and share personal data of citizens, violating collective and personal dignity and trampling on the right to freedom of expression. this resolution is addressed to a society which has only enemies and where everyone is a suspect, and that is not the society we want.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, mr president, speaking first of all of the enlargement strategy, i would like to say that, judging from the experience of enlargements to date and from the way new candidates are approached, i am of the opinion that the policy of the european union does not always help to deal with the economic and social problems of workers and societies that are joining or will join, and that in many cases the aid, economic and other, is either insufficient or misdirected, with the consequence of either perpetuating or widening regional and social inequalities. i would like to mention the case of turkey. the european union is also calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary steps to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the ankara protocol, which provides for the recognition of the republic of cyprus, whose rights under international law are being questioned. i would remind you that there are still problems with respect for democratic rights and trade union freedoms in turkey, as underlined by the recent persecution and trial of turkish trade unionists in izmir. i would also like to mention the case of kosovo. the approach must be made in compliance with un security council resolution 1244/99. and there are still problems such as the situation of serbs inside kosovo living under a blockade and the non-compliance with agreements on the resettlement of refugees. end of the fyrom; the problem of the name must be approached within the framework of the un and within the framework of a bilateral agreement with a geographical indication. and i would like to ask you, commissioner and president-in-office, how you see the latest initiative of the newly elected greek prime minister to meet the prime ministers of albania and fyrom.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, article 49 of the treaty of rome is not, in my view, a romantic invitation by the european states to join and enlarge the united europe. it is a realistic aim to ensure that the union's principles are adopted by as many european countries as possible. only then can the basic conditions of the three c's: 'deepening - conditions - communication' be fulfilled. the council will be examining tomorrow mr albertini's motion for a resolution, which expressly states that turkey has made some progress in respect of the ratification of the political criteria of copenhagen, but that much remains to be done in the fields of human rights, freedom of expression and freedom of religion, and in turkey's political attitudes in general to the justice system, etc. it is clear, however, that turkey has recently been attempting to dominate the middle east and the caucasus in a way that is contrary to the established principles of the european union. turkey's attitude towards iran is typical and completely contrary to the european union's foreign policy and its commitments under the ankara protocol. there are still eight chapters to be discussed with turkey and i therefore believe that on this basis turkey is not yet ready to receive a date for the start of negotiations. i would like to say two things about the former yugoslav republic of macedonia: we note that recent actions and statements by the prime minister are causing problems in the neighbouring countries and we would like to see this behaviour harmonised in a more relaxed manner.
the lisbon treaty, mr president, creates an even more negative environment for the peoples of the member states of the european union and the enlargement countries. the situation of the peoples of the balkans is unfortunately dramatic. the reasons are the consequences of the nato war, capitalist restructuring, agreements with the european union, foreign military bases in the region, the capitalist crisis and the energy competition of the great powers. the accession of these countries serves the interests of big business and imperialist designs, which even include the redefinition of the borders of the countries in this region. the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to nato and the european union is exacerbating the contradictions, while the dominant forces in the country are holding out for a solution. turkey is exploiting its geostrategic position and is insisting on occupying a large part of cyprus, is making claims in the aegean, is holding thousands of trade unionists, kurds, journalists, etc. the myth of the economic miracle has been dispelled in iceland and pressure is being exerted to join the imperialist european chariot. the communist party of greece has opposed the enlargement of the european union because it is opposed to the european union itself as well as to the accession and the remaining of greece in it. we are fighting with the peoples of europe for peace and social justice against the imperialist associations.
madam president, despite the reservations of some, the enlargement policy has brought stability, peace and prosperity to europe. today we are called upon to continue with the acceding countries: the western balkans, iceland and turkey. the integration of the western balkans is undoubtedly the great challenge. their accession will put an end to a period of conflict that began in 1990 and will eliminate what is becoming a black hole in the heart of europe. croatia will be ready for accession in a few months and the other countries are moving forward with great vigour. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the progress of the process of european integration. there are, of course, some open questions. the unresolved status of kosovo, the difficult situation in bosnia and the name dispute over the former yugoslav republic of macedonia are wounds to the region. the new government is making efforts to resolve the dispute once and for all. after 17 years of tension, time must be allowed to finally find a solution acceptable to both sides. in general, good neighbourly relations have proved, whether we like it or not, to be a de facto condition for accession. so let us all work for them.
madam president, the report we are discussing today is intended to send a positive message about the european perspective and, ultimately, about the accession of the western balkan countries, turkey and iceland to the european union. i think that is the positive message that we all agree on in this chamber, and most of us do. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it's not a road paved with roses. it is therefore a matter of credibility for the european union to see that the criteria and prerequisites it sets are met by action and not just by good intentions. it is therefore necessary to make full adjustments for full integration. in this context, the implementation of good neighbourly relations is of great importance. let's not hide behind our thumb. the serious outstanding good neighbourly relations between candidate countries and member states affect the development of the integration process of those who want to become members of the family. the previous slovenia-croatia agreement confirms this. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to the european union. the reason is simple. if that country receives a date for the opening of accession negotiations without a solution, then its government will no longer have any strong incentive to take a constructive stance in order to finally reach a mutually acceptable solution with greece. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's external relations are not affected by the turkish invasion of cyprus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
madam president, i have noticed that mr posselt, like other colleagues, uses the term 'macedonia' for fyrom. the term 'macedonia' is the one which is the point of friction between greece, which is a member of the union, and this candidate country. i would therefore ask that the honourable members be advised as to how to use the actual term in the name of this country.
madam president, macedonia is mia and it is greek. and that's why these games have to stop. we must speak in this chamber on the terms we have all agreed to. and fyrom, the country under accession, we have accepted as 'fyrom' and not 'macedonia'.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, international observers point out that the solution to the problem of piracy lies in achieving political stability in the country. it is something we all hope for, especially we greeks, because our greek shipping is being hit hard by piracy in the region. commissioner, you have pleasantly surprised me. so far all the information we have from the international media and from everywhere is about the progress of military operations. so you disarmed me because i was going to ask you the question: what is the progress of the political actions that have been taken so far in the country, because we are now focusing on the fact that, in order to solve the problem, we must have political stability in somalia. i am grateful for the information you have given us and i would say that it would be useful to have a more detailed briefing of both the european parliament and the media concerned with the subject of political intervention.
madam president, it is a fact that somali pirates are a threat to international shipping. this not only affects the cost and reliability of maritime transport, but also hinders the delivery of international humanitarian aid to somalia, exacerbating the severe food crisis afflicting the country. i should like to point out, however, that countries with a long tradition in the merchant shipping industry, such as greece and other mediterranean countries, are particularly affected. i understand that the european union's mission to protect the sea crossing in the horn of africa is an important step. but we must understand that phenomena that were once for all of us only in the realm of imagination and we saw in movies - i read about them when i was a child in fairy tales - are now knocking on our door, they are a visible danger, a reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? on 1 july 2009, the commission forwarded its proposal for a council recommendation on smoke-free environments, based on article 152 (4) of the ec treaty. the main purpose of this proposal is to implement article 8 of the who framework convention on tobacco control. article 8 deals with protection against exposure to tobacco smoke. to date, the convention has been ratified by 26 member states and the community. on 8 july 2009, in view of the swedish presidency's work programme and in order to allow the other institutions sufficient time to express their views, the council invited the european parliament, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions to deliver their opinions by 26 november, 5 november and 8 october 2009 respectively. the european economic and social committee has already adopted its opinion and the committee of the regions has indicated that it does not intend to deliver one. i understand that the european parliament plans to adopt its opinion by march 2010 at the latest, which i regret. unfortunately, it is too late for the council to have the opportunity to consider it. this is definitely not about disrespect. on the contrary, i think so. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'smoking' in the wording of the directive. the text of the recommendation is currently being discussed in the council and we have made considerable progress so far. i am confident that we will achieve our objective of adopting the recommendation at the council meeting on 1 december 2009. however, the council does not intend to adopt any conclusions on this matter. the council has taken note of the european parliament resolution adopted on 24 october 2007 on the green paper 'towards a smoke-free europe: policy options at eu level'. in the resolution, parliament called on member states to introduce legislation on smoke-free smoking within two years. many eu countries have now adopted such laws, and more are on the way. parliament also considered that the policy on smoking cessation should be complemented by other support measures. the council shares that view. i am pleased to have had the opportunity to present to the council the timetable for the draft recommendation on smoke-free environments and look forward to hearing your views on this matter.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the council's decision to rush its proposal for a smoke-free environment to the member states without allowing parliament sufficient time to elaborate its own position is, in our view, wrong. our reaction, apart from today's question, is the resolution, which we shall vote on, i hope, tomorrow and on which we have reached a good compromise which i think will express the great majority of the house. this resolution contains many new elements. we in the pp are particularly proud of the emphasis placed in this text on the protection of children from secondhand smoke, as, on our proposal and with the agreement of the other groups, many new elements have been introduced. i would like to draw attention to the need for special sensitivity and protection, since children, unlike adults, are not able to consent legally, morally or even psychologically to their exposure to secondhand smoke. parents have this duty of protection, but they need our help, since secondhand smoke in children has not been sufficiently studied and therefore neither parents nor anyone else has the knowledge of what the consequences of long-term exposure of children to tobacco are and what the necessary degree of protection is. the commission's proposal to carry out a pan-european study on the problem, including third-hand smoke, is therefore of particular value. the information that will be generated can offer enormous services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the ratification and application of the revised ilo conventions by alejandro cercas, on behalf of the s&d group, marian harkin, on behalf of the alde group, jean lambert, on behalf of the verts/ale group, gabriele zimmer and ilda figueiredo, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, (o-0131/2009 - b7-0228/2009).
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank my colleagues from the epp group and the other political groups in our european parliament, because we have all wanted to come together on this issue of decent work to table a joint resolution, and the negotiations of the past few days have been extremely positive. since 1919, the international labour organization has been able to secure and develop a system of international labour standards covering a wide range of subjects, including labour, employment, social policy and human rights. we cannot forget that, especially in these times of crisis. this is why it is extremely important that the conventions have been classified by the ilo as up to date following a tripartite process involving employers, workers and governments. that is why we have issued this recommendation to the member states, encouraging them to ratify the conventions which have been classified by the ilo and asking them to contribute actively to their effective implementation for the development and advancement of social europe. we want it within a reasonable time. we will be vigilant about the timing of the application of these conventions, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. the epp group will be particularly vigilant in the application of these conventions in the member states. the fight against illegal work, the modernisation of social progress, the building of a genuine social europe, which shows the way to the world, is at that price, and we really want to take it forward.
the european union is a community of citizens, and we are all aware of the importance of this. we know all too well that the exercise of these rights is a necessary condition for becoming a member state of the union. we also know that when these rights are violated, the union is obliged to impose sanctions. the foundation of these rights, which is inherent in the creation and functioning of the union, extends to the workplace. the importance which the union attaches to the defence of labour rights is evident not only in the production of internal legislation but also in its external policy. we know very well that when it comes to contracts with third countries, one of the conditions it sets is that basic labour rights are respected. for these reasons, the union could not but be one of the first to support and systematically revise the conventions of the international labour organization, the ilo. recently, after negotiations with workers, employers and governments, the ilo has undertaken yet another revision of its conventions. and while the governments of the member states and the union are among those who have participated in this review, we are faced with a paradox. the paradox is that many member states of the union, while having adopted eu directives which impose labour rights more advanced than those of the ilo conventions, underestimate the importance of the formal issue of ratifying these conventions at national level. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in any event, commissioner, the european commission should not hesitate to call more forcefully on the member states to fulfil such obligations in order to increase the credibility of the union by promoting decent work, especially in the current context of the financial crisis.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a strong convergence of views on the usefulness and necessity of ratifying ilo conventions between the speakers in the european parliament and the commission. however, as mr őry has pointed out, the commission can only impose itself where it has exclusive competence and, as i said, it has done so. as regards the role of trade unions, the court of justice in its recent judgment recognises collective action as a fundamental right. however, this right can be regulated, which is in line with other international instruments. i shall nevertheless convey your concern to my colleague in charge of social policy for a thorough follow-up on this matter.
i have received three motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 26 november 2009.
the next item is the commission statement on the fao world conference on food security - ending hunger on earth.
member of the commission. − madam president, i also deplore that none of the g8 leaders were present at rome except for commission president barroso, and of course it adds to the image that this has been a summit which did not bring that much new. when you look at the final declaration this is, i think, also obvious. on the other hand, i think it is also very important that we managed to keep the food security item on the political agenda and the result of the several summits we have been witnessing in 2009 has certainly been that it is now high on the international agenda and that, whenever world leaders meet, for example latterly in pittsburgh for the g20, there is talk of development cooperation and development policy. so that in itself is a very positive element. i have been in rome and i must say that apart from the final declaration which is, i must agree, a little bit disappointing, there have been very good discussions and also a very good presence, and something can come out of it. for example, there was a whole discussion on the selling of fertile land in developing countries and countries which have no arable land; buying them itself is a very interesting topic to discuss and i think it is also one where we can come to some common understanding. the second thing i would like to say is that, as a couple of members have already said, the cap is of course not ideal. nothing is ideal in this world, but when you look at the effect of the common agricultural policy on the developing world, i think we can claim that it is by far the least harmful system of a big trading block with respect to distorting effects in the developing countries. the wto has acknowledged that most if not all of our subsidies are non-trade-distorting because they are supporting agricultural income, not the prices of agricultural products. i am also a little bit, how should i put it, disappointed that we are blaming ourselves all the time. europe is not ideal either but i think that with the food facility, for example, we took a major step forward. this involves eur 1 billion on a two-year basis; it is not about supporting the delivery of food, but is largely focused on delivering seeds and so on sustaining small agricultural producers in the developing world. i think this really is an innovation. it has also been acknowledged as such by the world bank, for example, which is taking over this mechanism. so we should not blame ourselves all the time. by the way, this facility was an innovation by my predecessor. there is one thing i do not agree with him and that was about a gentleman who in the mean time has disappeared, mr le hyaric. he is not a socialist, my predecessor, he is a communist; i mean you should look at his political group: he is a communist and that probably explains the reasoning he was using. having said this, also in l’aquila we took up our responsibility as a european commission and we pledged usd 4 billion, which is about 20% of the food package and the support package that was agreed in l’aquila. with that we are by far the largest donor that made pledges in l’aquila and we are also going to honour them, we are also going to commit this sum and to disburse this as soon as possible. i will end by saying a last word on the new eu agricultural and food security policy because in the 2010 work programme of the commission there is a plan to present to the council and the parliament a communication on a renewed policy for agriculture and food security for the european union. this document will review current issues affecting agriculture and food security, for example, challenges posed by climate change, enhanced attention to nutrition and food quality, safety nets and social protection policies, impact of biofuels on food production or the use and impact of new technologies and biotechnologies, increased calls for rights-based approaches, large-scale land acquisition etc. the communication will aim firstly at renewing the eu commitment to assist developing countries advancing their agricultural production. this remains crucial notably in view of the increasing demand for food due to a growing global population and changing dietary patterns and the challenges and threats that climate change is posing to sustainable agricultural production. secondly, it will aim at launching reflection on how the eu could best use its experience and know-how to support the emergence of regional policies and strategic frameworks in agriculture and food security. thirdly, it will aim at providing the basis for the whole eu approach to harmonise existing ecms policy frameworks following the commitments set out in the l’aquila agenda for action. fourthly, it will aim at proposing ways on how the eu could contribute to accelerating the process towards the achievements of the mdgs and notably mdg1 in view of the upcoming review of the mdgs in september 2010 in new york. fifthly, it will aim at better positioning the eu vis-à-vis current developments in the global food agricultural governance system, and lastly, at addressing issues that have recently gained prominence in the food security agenda. a public consultation on an issues paper was launched on 16 november and will close in early january. thus we will consult all the stakeholders and then come forward with a formal communication by the european commission.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 26 november 2009.
the next item is the statement by the commission on imports of meat from third countries.
member of the commission. − madam president, may i remind the honourable members that what i said was not that we cannot impose rules on third countries. i am sorry that, even after a presentation of 10 to 15 minutes, i failed to explain the rules we impose when we import from third countries. i must remind you that at the same time as we are importers of meat from third countries – and at this point we import from brazil only 5% of our requirements for beef in the european union – we are also big exporters to third countries: to russia and elsewhere. at this point our exports to russia amount to eur 1 billion per year – mostly from ireland. we are trying to convince russia that we cannot accept the same rules as applied in russia. there are rules of international trade, and we apply equivalent, but not identical, rules provided that we are satisfied that they are strict enough to protect our consumers. this is what we are doing. the reason why we applied the safety rules in the case of brazil is precisely because our fvo missions have shown us that something was going wrong. we applied very strict rules. i gave you the figures. regarding the last mission to brazil, there were indeed problems, but i challenge you to look at all the reports of our fvo missions to any of the member states and make a comparison. you will also see very serious deficiencies in the member states, which we ask member states and their authorities to put right. that is also what we have asked brazil to do. problems were identified in brazil. in one state, where three holdings showed significant deficiencies, the brazilian authorities took corrective action to de-list all the holdings concerned and to retrain the auditors responsible for their audits. problems were also identified at three other holdings, mainly in relation to delays of notification of animal movements or to the consistency of the data in the database. these problems were recognised to be minor problems by the fvo team. nevertheless, the brazilian authorities made an undertaking to review the database to avoid incorrect data. the fvo missions have this in mind when they go. they know that they will find defects. our obligation is to correct the deficiencies that we find – whether this is in member states or in third countries – because our obligation is to our consumers. i want to assure you that we shall continue sending missions to brazil and to other third countries to make sure that when deficiencies are discovered, they are put right. i must also assure you that we are playing a very fair game for our farmers and producers vis-à-vis third countries. there was a remark about romania, which in the same way as bulgaria and – in the past – many other member states had a problem with classical swine fever. we have heard a lot about romania and bulgaria. i must challenge you to ask your respective governments what assistance we have offered in order to get rid of this problem. i am sure that romania will be able to export meat in the very near future precisely because of the assistance we have offered it and bulgaria to get rid of classical swine fever. in ending i want to assure you that our first responsibility is to our european consumers and that we want a just and fair deal for everybody. you can also be assured that our fvo missions to third countries will be very strict. we shall remain vigilant and if something goes wrong we shall try to put it right. we shall remain vigilant and strict. whether more farms are put on the list or not depends entirely on the brazilian authorities, and on whether they are prepared to spend the money that they have to spend in order to have their farms approved in accordance with our standards and to be able to export. if they do not, then they will not.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the court of auditors and the european commission on their excellent work and to express my satisfaction at the improvement in the overall situation. i would like to stress in particular that for the first time agricultural expenditure is no longer in the red. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i'm quite optimistic about the future. we must also look at the good news. the european union's recovery system shall operate: in 2008, €1.6 billion was recovered and more is under way, showing that the system is functioning properly. the rate of detected fraud is extremely low and has only been detected in a few isolated cases. problems are identified only in a few member states, demonstrating that the system as a whole is working well and that the objectives of cohesion policy are being achieved. in the long term, the system of shared management needs to be reviewed and a greater share of the final responsibility transferred to the member states, thus helping to simplify the rules. the lisbon treaty provides for this in article 310 which allows cooperation in the implementation of the budget between the european union and the member states, in contrast to the commission's exclusive responsibility until now. finally, i would like to stress that the message from the court of auditors on the need to simplify the rules has reached the council and the commission and i sincerely hope that the changes ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, it is a matter of principle that access to information and education should be encouraged. at the same time, access to european and world culture, in which written monuments have a special place, must be facilitated. in this sense, the digitisation of books and the free access to them are possible, but always subject to the conditions we are discussing today, namely the absolute protection of intellectual property. but we have similar and institutionalised instruments in the european union, and i am referring specifically to europeana, which we must strengthen and promote more. europeana is at the same time a library, a school, a film gallery, a music archive and, of course, respects intellectual property rights and provides free access to all citizens. so the means are there. the question is how we, as the european union, can take the lead on our own, and not just follow developments in the private sector.
in writing. − we vote against the motion for a resolution ‘the commission’s 2009 enlargement strategy paper concerning the western balkan countries, iceland and turkey’ by gabriele albertini, because we believe that neither turkey nor the former yugoslav republic of macedonia shows any progress in meeting the copenhagen criteria, nor do they demonstrate any political behaviour which would allow them to become eu members we hope to improve their efforts in order to meet the accession criteria, a fact that will be examined in the future. in any case, we do not wish to vote for a motion for a resolution that will give rise to vain hopes and will be used exclusively for internal consumption.
in writing. women, because of their unequal position in all class societies, experiencing class and racial oppression, are easily victimized by all forms of violence. physical abuse, rape, trafficking, etc. are forms of violence that demonstrate the racial dimension of the class nature of women's inequality. but violence is a social phenomenon with specific economic, political and social causes. these causes which lie at the root of capitalist relations of production cannot be eliminated as long as these relations exist. the popular movements must demand measures to prevent the phenomenon and to provide relief to the victims, women and children, by seeking more radical changes in a pro-people direction at the social and political level. we are radically opposed to the creation of counselling centres and support bodies for abused women by ngos and private individuals. these should be the sole responsibility of the state. the measures proposed in the resolution not only fail to eliminate the problem, leaving the cause intact, but by seeking to manage it they perpetuate it.
in writing. the authors of the resolution, although they are forced to highlight the problem of hunger and more generally the problems raised at the summit of the food and agriculture organization (fao), nevertheless conceal the root cause of the problem, namely the capitalist system of exploitation and the strategy that the eu is loyal to for the profitability of capital. the multinational food production and distribution companies are uprooting farmers and concentrating land, dealing a heavy blow to poor and middle-class farmers. workers and the working class, even in the advanced capitalist countries, are finding it increasingly difficult to secure healthy and safe food, while food multinationals are raking in huge profits and are now buying up vast tracts of land, primarily in africa, on the assumption that food production must double by 2050. the eu is leading the way in liberalising and privatising all food, water, energy, transport and technology sectors, and is imposing this on third countries through the wto and bilateral agreements. the cap is the backbone of this policy of eliminating small and mediumsized farmers and supporting monopolies and their profits. farmers and workers are fighting this policy, fighting to overthrow this system of exploitation and to ensure sufficient healthy and safe food for the entire population.
mr president, i asked to speak in order to draw the attention and the sensitivity of the european parliament to an aspect of immigration policy which concerns unaccompanied minors and the rights of children, an issue which must be addressed by the union as a whole and not just by the countries of entry, such as greece. you are well aware that under community law, any application for asylum or residence must be examined in the member state to which the applicant has entered, regardless of his actual destination. this is a burden on the structures of the countries of entry and is detrimental to the rights of applicants, who are dealt with en masse and with very short procedures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected, and that the child is not subject to any discrimination or discrimination. i believe that we must work as a european parliament to change and adapt community and national legislation so that unaccompanied children reach their final destination, are not deported and are guaranteed a dignified and safe stay in the european union.
mr president, in the last week i have had meetings with various politicians from arab states; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the food supply. i'm conveying their concern about iran's nuclear program. i also met with israelis who are very concerned, and their main concern is the support that is being seen at this time from turkey to iran. i was asked what the official position of the european union was on prime minister erdoğan's support for the government of tehran and mr erdoğan's statements that iran's nuclear programme is for peaceful purposes. i confess, mr president, that i did not know what our official position was on turkey's statements and behaviour regarding iran's nuclear programme. the progress report says differently, and mr erdogan says differently.
mr president, it is a positive development that the commissioner present, mrs boel, in a public meeting of the european parliament's committee on agriculture, has declared a text on the revision of the community budget in relation to the common agricultural policy to be non-existent. in my view, the debate on the budgetary review should in no way precede the review of the common agricultural policy for the period after 2013. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are called upon to first define the agricultural policy we want, define the contribution of the agricultural sector to the production of public goods and then decide the resources to be allocated to the objectives to be set. this is the message i am conveying and i want to make commissioner boel a partner in it.
mr president, i would first of all like to express my full solidarity with the struggle of the trade unionists in the european parliament and wish them every success. the greek government is also unleashing a great storm of anti-worker and anti-people measures to generalize and fully impose flexible working conditions, to demolish the social security system, to freeze wages and pensions. the greek government, the european union and representatives of capital are trying to terrorize the workers by using the country's budget deficit and public debt as a scarecrow. they lead workers into rigged social dialogues to blackmail their consent, contain justified anger and bend popular reactions. the first response to the anti-people attack by the government and the european union in greece is the nationwide strike on 17 december, called and organized by the class labour movement (pame). they demand measures to meet the contemporary popular needs that can only be won by a united front of struggle of the working class, the poor-middle classes of the city and the countryside in opposition and rupture with the anti-people policy of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say that there is a feeling of anger among peach growers in greece. suffice it to say that some 200,000 tons of compost are unavailable as we speak. the situation in the cereals sector remains critical and requires the possibility of public intervention in the member states to be activated immediately. we must support products with a protected designation of origin and a protected geographical indication. the livestock industry is also facing a major crisis. we have mentioned the dairy sector and rightly took the initiative to protect it. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the products are labelled in the community. we need further measures to promote agricultural products, both within the european union and outside europe, on third markets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the food supply chain, including the introduction of a new food safety code, the introduction of a new food safety code and the introduction of a new food safety code. as i had argued in the debate on the 2010 budget, it is particularly important to maintain a sufficient margin for agricultural expenditure in the budget to meet unforeseen needs in other agricultural sectors.
thank you, mr kelly. whereas everyone should be encouraged to speak other languages in this chamber, let me note that you began your speech by saying ‘merci, monsieur president’. i am assuming you were not asking for my mercy, but were trying to say ‘thank you’ – not in greek, i should add, which is ‘ευχαριστώ, κύριε πρόεδρε’!
member of the commission. − mr president, i will now try to respond to some of the questions raised, but i think this discussion here clearly shows that there is a common understanding of the difficulties that our agricultural sector is facing. first of all, i was a bit astonished to hear that we should have removed the safety net to the agricultural sector. that is certainly not the case. we actually have a safety net in place in situations where the farmers need support. we have a continuous safety net, which is the direct payments. that is certainly in place, and that is accountable for the farmers. then we have the different intervention systems, the private storage, the export refunds systems to enter into effect when we find it necessary to trigger these tools. on simplification, red tape, bureaucracy – i completely agree with you that we should try to ease the situation as much as possible for our farmers, and that is the reason why, in the council meeting on wednesday, i will present to the council some deregulation proposals to be discussed. the council presented 39 different proposals, and we can actually accept quite a number. others are more political, related to the period after 2013, but i am sure that you would find the proposals extremely interesting. those that have raised the gmo issue, i presume you know that i think completely along the same lines, and i think that it is important to find a solution on a technical figure on the presence of non-approved gms. i expect the next commission to present such a proposal. it is true that the european union is the biggest importer of agricultural products, but at the same time the european union is the biggest exporter of agricultural products. this is because of the fact that we have an extremely good brand: european products are considered to be high quality on overseas markets. therefore, the idea that we should now protect our own production would be damaging for our agricultural sector. so we need to go on being visible on the export markets, and i think that for the future – and i hope there will be full support from the european parliament – we need much more money for promoting our high-quality products on the new emerging markets. i think we can do much better, but we need a bit of support. then on the issue of the regulatory framework – i did not hear this exact phrase, but i think that is what is behind the comments on this issue. today it is already possible for farmers to enter into a contract with the industry, with the dairy, for a certain volume at a fixed price. it is already possible for farmers to do this. and you know in the high level group for the dairy sector we are looking into some voluntary ways of improving this system. biodiversity: i completely agree that this is important, and that was exactly the reason why we included biodiversity in the new challenges when we agreed on the health check of the common agricultural policy in november 2008. so this has high priority, and i completely agree with the comments from the honourable member. on the measures: we can actually use all the tools that we have available at the moment. but new initiatives cannot be presented by a caretaker commission. i am sure that you are aware of this problem, and therefore i hope that we will be able to see the new commission in operation as soon as possible. next, i am very happy to see that the european parliament will now have a role as an important player for the future, thanks to the lisbon treaty introducing codecision. this is not only codecision on the pure agricultural issues but also on the budget. so here, you will have a huge influence on the possibilities on the budgetary possibilities for the agricultural sector for the period after 2013. though i might not experience it from this place, i can guarantee that i will keep an eye on you when you take upon yourselves the new responsibilities for the agricultural sector.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. the phenomenon of over-employment in the eu is common and is aimed at providing additional income to agriculture. and because a small farm is more likely to have busy members, it's obvious that a small farm today is disproportionately affected compared to a large one. this is because, apart from the reduction in agricultural income, whatever the sector in which it is specialised, it is also faced with the reduction or elimination of its non-agricultural income, while the security income it receives in the form of direct aid is totally insufficient for a decent living. therefore, regardless of the agricultural sector of specialisation, there should be horizontal targeted crisis aid for small farms.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the prospects for the doha development agenda after the seventh wto ministerial conference, by vital moreira on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0126/2009 b7-0232/2009)
member of the commission. − mr president, the seventh wto ministerial conference in geneva was an important opportunity to exchange views with all wto members on their priorities for the organisation. i think it is important to underline that this seventh ministerial conference was not a negotiating conference: it was more a discussion on various topics. our priority list, of course, begins with the doha development agenda. if it can be completed, doha will deliver a good outcome not only for europe, but also for the whole world economy. all of us will suffer if protectionism increases, just as all of us will gain if the economy picks up. doha is the best trade policy instrument available on both those fronts. doha would also deliver the development that so many of the poorest countries in the world are looking for. it would do that through new rules on market access, farm reform and customs facilitation in particular. in all areas of the doha negotiations, the development element for the countries concerned has already been taken into account. but of course we can conclude the doha round only if all wto members are on board. the reality is that the united states has serious concerns and constraints which it is discussing with the large emerging economies. in a few months we will see how these discussions are evolving as the deadline for the g20 to conclude the doha in 2010 comes closer. i think we all agree that, if we want a conclusion of the doha round before the end of 2010, we have to see modalities in place on agricultural and non-agricultural market access (nama) before the end of march 2010. that is the ultimate deadline. meanwhile we will continue to push so that the interests of the european union in areas such as trade and services, and protection of geographical indications, are covered. apart from doha, the ministerial conference addressed some important issues for wto members. our priorities included the need to strengthen the role of the wto in monitoring and analysing protectionism; wto accession – such as for instance the accessions of least-developed countries into the wto, which we certainly think must be promoted; the rising number of regional free-trade agreements – here we need to ensure that these actually complement the multilateral trade system; and finally, there is the contribution of trade policy to the fight against climate change. on many of these issues wto members agreed that the organisation can and should work. so i expect this to go forward. on your last question, of course we will keep parliament closely informed on these developments, in particular on the doha round. the lisbon treaty actually offers an excellent opportunity to take our collaboration with parliament a step further, and this will be a key priority for the commission’s trade policy in the years ahead.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, we support the multilateral trading system and the world trade organisation as the custodian of a rules-based trading system and a system that ensures that globalisation is managed more effectively and that the benefits of globalisation are shared more fairly. it is precisely the wto acquis that, in the current economic crisis, has largely discouraged its members from resorting to trade-restrictive measures, while leaving sufficient room for flexibility in order to achieve economic recovery. the european people's party supports the completion of the doha development agenda on the basis of a comprehensive, ambitious and balanced outcome of the negotiations. we urge the commission to maintain a firm negotiating position with a view to genuinely strengthening access for european products and services to the markets of both developed and emerging economies. as far as agriculture is concerned, i would appeal to the commission - and i would like you to leave this, mrs boel, as a legacy - to adhere strictly to the negotiating mandate it has received from the council, which also limits its negotiating position to equivalent concessions from our trading partners. i would stress the need to defend our position on geographical indications vigorously. the outcome of the doha development agenda should ensure the more effective integration of developing countries, in particular ldcs, into the global trading system. finally, we call for the strengthening of work between the world trade organisation and other international organisations to ensure mutual support and coherence between trade and non-trade aspects such as environmental sustainability, nutritional adequacy and safety and decent working conditions.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to refer to what one of the honourable members said – that the european union should be the honest broker in these negotiations. i do not disagree but i do not want the european union to be the only banker in this round. there is a broad recognition that the european union has played a crucial role in keeping the train on track. the reason for this is that in previous rounds we have been very vulnerable because of our agricultural sector, and this has not been the case in these negotiations. we have put a strong offer on the table and this has meant that we are now in a very favourable situation. but i have to say as well – not only here, but i have said it elsewhere, including in the negotiations in geneva – that the european union is not going to give any further concessions in agriculture. we have stretched to the ultimate limit of what we can do and this actually has been recognised. the doha development round was certainly meant to be a development round. i think that the negotiating text on the table today shows that, if we conclude this round, it would indeed deliver on development. for instance, the market-opening obligations for developing countries will not be the same as for the developed countries, and the poorest countries – the least-developed countries – will not have to open their markets at all. the european union has supported this flexible approach. today the european union is the only industrialised bloc that has completely opened its markets for the least developed countries with duty-free, quota-free access in all areas. no other industrialised countries have done as much as we have. but these blocs will be forced to do the same as we have if we can conclude this round. regarding whether the agreement is good enough; i think that being able to get consensus between more than 150 different countries with totally different approaches probably will mean that you would never get the best of all worlds. but i think that the offers on the table from the european union are strong and will certainly result in benefits to global trade. finally, can i just reiterate the willingness and openness of the commission regarding the new role that parliament will play in the future on cooperation and transparency within the discussions that we will certainly be having on trade issues for the future.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union, in particular the member states, the commission and the member states.
the fact that the european microfinance mechanism for employment and social inclusion has found consensus and agreement from all political groups shows how necessary it was. it is very important that a person who has lost his job or is in danger of losing it and cannot find solutions to his problem in the conventional banking markets can get a micro-loan or a micro-credit. but for the idea of microfinance to work in practice, it has to work quickly and properly, which means that on the thursday we vote on the 2010 budget we have to say 'no' to the first 25 million euros that will come out of the budget. but that is not all. there are 75 million more that i think should also come out of the budgets, and that is because if we take the money from the progress programme, then it is simply as if we take it from the least poor and vulnerable to give it to the most poor and vulnerable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's own resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. your honor, every year around this time, parents mediate to get letters for santa's presents. in these letters, the children ask for toys. one of those games could be this one, just as this one could be one of the 104 games that the german federal institute responsible for seeing the risks in consumer goods has audited. i have heard the commissioner before, in effect, reprimanding the institution which has done its job. i also heard him blame the scientists. i also heard him blame the member states, which are responsible for supervision. i listened to all this with great interest, and i also listened to him telling us constantly with great honesty and with undeniable evidence that every previous directive is improved every now and then with new information. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. so we have to take that into account. as for the directive, it is to be implemented in 2011; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive on chemicals is implemented in 2014. and there's something else: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market in the community is not affected by the introduction of the single market. these are directly related to the christmas market. these are directly related to the health of our children, who play with toys that we buy them. and finally, it is very important that this is not the time of year to talk about games. normally, the discussion of games and safety should be held throughout the year. and that is the commission's responsibility.
madam president, in recent years there have been cases of dozens of children - in 2000 there were only 36 - requiring immediate surgery because of the presence of harmful substances in toys. i would also remind you that just last week a report was published in america stating that one third of the toys on the market contain dangerous chemicals. it is therefore necessary to understand that the european conformity marking (eec) is not sufficient as a guarantee of the safety of children's toys. the award is made after the company has submitted a dossier and not after a preventive and sample inspection of the product, so that the safety of the toys is not taken for granted. so that our children can have children. i don't have children, but i aspire to have them! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to express my satisfaction with the agreement on the 2010 budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this leaves little room for manoeuvre should the eu have to respond to unforeseen needs or want to react to new political challenges such as the eu 2020 strategy or new measures to tackle climate change. i am particularly pleased that, thanks to the european parliament's persistence, we have managed to secure the financing of energy networks and infrastructure under the economic recovery plan, with an emphasis on 'green technologies', innovation, research and the creation of broadband infrastructure in rural areas. it is also of particular importance that we have succeeded in ensuring the sustainability of existing community infrastructure and tools in the field of civil protection, in particular the further strengthening of the eu's rapid response capacity in the event of natural disasters, thus paving the way for the future establishment of a european civil protection force. finally, i think we can all agree that we cannot talk about a better europe, a europe closer to the citizens, without the appropriate financial means.
in writing. i voted against the report because the ever-growing unemployment in the european union cannot be tackled by the microfinance programme. integrated programmes with adequate funding from a separate budget line are required; the commission has also proposed a number of programmes with a particular focus on tackling youth unemployment, which is particularly high in greece, where one in four young people under 25 are unemployed. more generally, the issue is policies that require an increase in the community budget and that overturn the neoliberal framework of the stability pact and low deficits. i also believe that funding under this mechanism should be purely voluntary and that in no way should anyone be forced to use the mechanism under the threat of interruption or reduction of social security benefits. the amendments i tabled with my gue/ngl colleagues were unfortunately voted down.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, this is a well-known and recognised problem, a very important problem, and i am proud that we have made progress during the term of office of this commission. as you mentioned, commissioner and vice-president kallas has made a great deal of effort in this area, and we have made progress in the lobby registration system. but i think we have to recognize that the best way to deal with this problem is transparency, not withholding information. it's only natural! it is normal in an open society and an open economy for different, sometimes conflicting, interests to be expressed. and it is in this direction that the commission will continue its action: more transparency in its contacts with the representatives of the various interests - business interests, trade union interests, sometimes special interests. the person in charge of the commission, if you support him, will be the commissioner and vice-president. he will be appointed by the administration to carry out this task in the new commission.
president of the commission. − congratulations to cambridge. i think cambridge is one of the greatest universities in europe and in the world. it is precisely because we do not have so many cambridges in europe that we have been working to have a real european research area, because cambridge and other very important universities in europe are quite international. they are able to attract very important funding, but in other countries, especially small countries and some of the poorest countries, they do not have those kinds of resources. that is why we not only need private funding like the ones you mentioned – and i certainly welcome all the work of foundations such as the ones you mentioned –, but we also need public funding from the states and from the european union budget. that will be one of the points i intend to put into the next european union budget. regarding the link with alternative investment managers, i really do not see this link. i think we should not use one thing or the other. we believe it is important to have sensible regulations for products on the financial markets considering what happened, including in your country. it was in your country that we had the highest ever case of state aid in the history of the european union, precisely because of problems in the financial markets.
mr president, mr barroso, i would like to tell you that, while the ambitious objectives of the 2020 strategy are being discussed, there are some countries, such as greece, which are entering this strategy on unfavourable terms, with major economic problems and high unemployment. the prime minister announced measures yesterday, believing that this would reduce the deficit. in athens they are anxiously awaiting the reaction of the markets and the evaluation of the various houses. i heard you before answering a question on this subject, i read mr almunia's statements today and i would like to ask you, mr barroso, what other ways can the commission help to tackle these problems, apart from monitoring the public deficit in greece? and secondly, in the context of the 2020 strategy, how are such national specificities being addressed so that such problems do not arise?
president barroso, as you mentioned, interest rates are indeed affected by the state of the economy. they reflect the confidence in a particular economy and the international economic community is affected by them. interest rates are affected by the confidence the community has in a particular economy and that confidence is in turn affected many times by statements on the confidence that the european commission shows in measures taken by member states. in that sense, speculators also try to speculate on a bad economic situation and sometimes make it worse. president barroso, are you prepared today, in this chamber, to state your support for the measures announced yesterday by the greek government to reverse the economic situation in greece? does the commission believe that they are moving in the right direction and, if applied, that they could change the financial situation, which you have indicated has been problematic in the past?
mr president, the policy of the european union is that, together with the united states and nato, it supports the israeli government in its criminal policy of genocide against the palestinian people. the european parliament's delegation to israel was denied entry to the occupied gaza strip by the israeli authorities. the european union's policy and the council's latest decision essentially give the israeli governments, who are guilty of war crimes as we know from the un report on the war in gaza, time to continue with their occupation plan. the european union's blunt words do not meet the legitimate global demand for a viable and independent palestinian state in the 1967 territories with east jerusalem as its capital. the european union is not taking any practical steps in this direction. on the contrary, it is improving relations with israel, which continues its settlements, especially in east jerusalem, the construction of the separation wall and the disgrace of the criminal blockade of the gaza strip. we reject the imperialist plans for the middle east and we support the struggle of the palestinian people and all the peoples of the region.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? thank you for a very good debate. i'll start by answering a few specific questions and then say a few closing words. as for the goldstone report, it's a very important report. it's a serious report. it is important to study these conclusions in depth and the eu has called on both parties, israel and the palestinians, to conduct proper investigations in the spirit recommended in the report. as regards the quartet, reference to it and to the need for the quartet to step up its efforts is also found in the conclusions adopted by the council. as regards talks with hamas, the council maintains relations with the palestinian leadership, led by president abbas and prime minister fayyad. the conditions for talks with hamas are well known and they are not being met. finally, i would like to say that i am very pleased with the broad support for the conclusions in this house. everyone, with some nuances of course, is aware of the importance of trying to support the middle east peace process in every way possible, and we all feel enormous frustration at the desperate slowness of the process. the christmas peace that is soon to descend in this house and in many parts of the world will not be present in the region this year in the way we wish. at the beginning of the swedish presidency we had hoped that the efforts of us president obama would bear fruit in the israeli-palestinian negotiations. it is important that the eu and the us work closely together. it has not yet happened, but we must, as always, be patient and persistent in this matter. the eu must be consistent and stand by its messages on east jerusalem, the demarcation of the border, settlements and security. i am very pleased with the broad consensus that exists here and with our conclusions, which are clear and consistent. they will be the basis for the work of the eu for a long time to come. here, it is important that all the institutions work closely together. the eu continues its esdp missions in the field, and in particular eupol copps has contributed significantly over the past year to improving the social and economic conditions of the palestinians in the west bank. the eu also supports the preparations for the establishment of an independent palestinian state. there is a lot of work to be done here, and we are of course in favour of the plan put forward by the palestinian authorities, palestine: ending the occupation, establishing a state. the end of this conflict requires a negotiated solution between the parties. then all the questions must be included. we cannot accept a solution which is decided by unilateral measures which then lead to a fait accompli. the solution must be global. it must include the lebanese and syrian tracks and it must be part of a regional strategy to resolve the arab-israeli conflict. we are not there yet, but the eu has made a big step forward. we are very much in agreement between all the institutions on this need and i look forward to continued cooperation on this issue.
vice-president designate of the commission. − mr president, can i just say that the issue of where i sit, i suspect, will keep coming back. i am sitting here because the council is over there. i may have to go and sit over there or you may have to build me a seat equidistant, because i assure you i will be in trouble somewhere for wherever i sit. it is a great delight, though, to be here with cecilia and i look forward very much to working with her. what strikes me about the debate that we have just had is that pretty much – and i think, mr atkins, you may be the exception in what you said, though i listened with great care – there is a shared conviction that what we are looking for is a two-state solution. there is an enormous amount of passion from all parliamentarians, especially, if i may say, mr de rossa and those members who have recently come back, and who have clearly seen for themselves the dreadful situation that exists on the ground. i believe what is significant about the council conclusions is that they are very clear. they give me a real sense of the direction that we need to move in. what is also very clear – and i pay tribute to the presidency for the work that they have done on this – is the frustration in this house that things are not moving, frustration borne of views that are sometimes quite different, but nonetheless converge on a desire to see a solution. the nuances are important. the views that you hold on the differences, as well as the similarities, matter to me as i navigate our future in these discussions and negotiations. there is no doubt to me that we have got to do two things. one is the rather political issues that you quite rightly raise. what is our relationship to be? i am at the beginning of that journey, and this debate is extremely important to me in listening to the views that have been put forward. what i take away from it is, first of all, that the quartet must demonstrate that it is worth the money, that it is actually able to be reinvigorated. i have already talked with the staff by video link in jerusalem, i have already talked to mr blair about his work and i have already talked to secretary of state clinton about the same things. it is very important, if it is going to work, that the word ‘reinvigorate’ is absolutely right. secondly, there are the issues in the region which the presidency has raised about the broader questions of those other countries that we need to engage with. i think most significantly from today is: what is the eu itself going to be able to do? that brings me, in a sense, to what i call the practical. a number of colleagues have raised particular issues, whether it is a question of what the uk is doing on labelling, whether it is issues about the association agreement, whether this report – the heads of mission report – and the recommendations that i have not yet considered within it are there. we need to consider all of these issues carefully, but what we have got to do is demonstrate the practical support that we put on the ground. i described 1 200 classrooms that were needed and i described our work in health. we are very committed to prime minister fayed’s state-building plan and to enhancing the institutions, particularly in terms of the rule of law. we must be seen to be practically engaged on the ground and practically working to find ways in which we can make the situation better for the people who have to live there every day and who look to us for the help that they need. that is the most significant and practical thing i need to do first of all. i would describe the work that i want to do as this: we have the potential to do the political and the economic. what i want to do is draw those two things together, to find a way in which we can enhance what we do, to support the work that is going on, to make the quartet more effective, to bring together what has been in a sense council and commission operating side by side, and to meld it into one so that what we do on the ground really makes a difference. in the end it is the two sides who come together to make the decision and to find the peace. but, on the way to the end, we have a significant role to play, and i am determined, on your behalf as well as on behalf of the commission and the council, that we play our full part in that.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the council on restrictive measures affecting individual rights following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, by emine bozkurt, louis michel and michèle striffler on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-0135/2009 - b7-0233/2009) and the oral question to the commission on restrictive measures affecting individual rights following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, by emine bozkurt, louis michel and michèle striffler on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-0136/2009 - b7-0234/2009)
we will have to ask what is happening, and we will let you know, mr coelho.
mr clark, it is hard to see how exactly this connects with the present debate on the oral question, but thank you.
the lisbon treaty, mr president, has a specific spirit and sets new limits for cooperation between the institutions of the european union. under this new system, parliament's role in individual rights matters is enhanced by the introduction of the codecision procedure. i therefore find it a little paradoxical that today, in the first plenary session after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, we should be obliged to discuss, including legal provisions, the limits of our new role before we even begin to operate and adapt to it. we all, without exception, agree on the need to take decisive action against terrorism. in this endeavour, strict measures are often necessary, such as the freezing of bank accounts and capital movements. on the other hand, respect for and protection of individual rights is indeed a fundamental value and core of the european union, and we cannot afford to ignore this when taking measures to ensure the safety of citizens, without, of course, this being a sign that we are not determined to give priority to the fight against terrorism and other criminal acts. the opinion of parliament's legal service and the case law of the court of justice of the european communities are certainly moving in this direction. we are directly elected by the citizens of the european union and that is precisely why we have a special responsibility to explain to the citizens that we are on the one hand guaranteeing their security and on the other hand fighting at the same time for the protection of their rights. we're the ones most responsible for this project.
before i give the floor to ms malmström and ms ashton, let me just say that this parliament has great faith in both of you, and knows you very well, especially because of your personal involvement in these issues in the past. we very much look forward to working closely with you, and to your support, as you have given in the past, to the important role parliament can play in this extremely sensitive field.
mr president, the european union has a responsibility to make a decisive contribution to stability in its immediate neighbourhood, in compliance with international law and with its own principles. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the european union must be able to mediate and contribute constructively to both sides, georgia and russia, in order to find a solution. at this juncture, three are the main messages we need to send: firstly, that unilateral and violent solutions cannot be accepted; the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union. the positive presence of the un must therefore be recognised, its action must be strengthened and it must be encouraged to continue its efforts, particularly in the field of human rights violations and international humanitarian law.
mr president, i thank you very much for giving me the floor and i also thank commissioner almunia for the detailed report he has presented to parliament. i was particularly pleased that the commissioner agreed to a relaxation of the stability pact, while recognising, of course, that the strict maastricht criteria, such as 3%, are very difficult to achieve in times of such a severe economic crisis as the one we are experiencing. i would like to stress first of all that in these days, these weeks, my country of origin, greece, is under attack from a particular credit institution, a think tank, in relation to its credit rating. the question arises whether we could seriously consider creating a european union body to do this work, so that it is not the work of just anyone and is not linked to hidden commercial or other competitive purposes. i would also like to express my regret that the european union is helping too many third countries, more than its own members. and i would also like to ask for the solidarity that my country, greece, needs to cope with the problems it is facing.
madam president, the attacks in madrid and london and the recent attacks in my own country, greece, demonstrate the scale of the problem of terrorism. terrorism threatens our way of life and our freedom. it does not just target the direct victims or their families, who are also directly affected, but the whole of society. the european pilot programmes mentioned for the victims of terrorist attacks are a positive example of wound relief, but much remains to be done. helping victims and their families is not just a moral imperative. it is primarily necessary so that we can send terrorism a clear message that we do not forget. we do not forget the heinous acts that stigmatize our democracy and our cohesion. we do not forget that victims of terrorism are often unsuspecting civilians who are injured or killed while carrying out their daily duties. we must not forget that in a europe which has taught tolerance and democracy, acts of violence will never be welcome.
your honor, i agree with the court that it is wrong to equate the presence of the crucifix in schoolrooms with disrespect for the religious beliefs of others. the issue we are discussing today is more social than legal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the presence of religious symbols is not an indication of religious discrimination or coercion. it is a question of the tradition and history of each country, and often of its constitution, as is the case in my own country, greece. in greece, we have religious images in schoolrooms, not to impose a particular religion on students, but because it is part of our tradition, directly connected to the values and structures of our society, directly connected to the persecution and religious oppression for four centuries by the ottoman empire.
mr president, the report of the swedish presidency is really positive. it coincides with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which marks the abandonment of the intergovernmental system that has plagued us for many years and the pursuit of a more integrated and coherent policy. the swedish presidency is also characterised by the creation of the stockholm programme and the decisions on the financial crisis, which are really important, pivotal points in the further development of this effort. at the same time, the election of the president of the european commission and the placing of the persons, which are of enormous importance for the development of the effort we will make through the treaty of lisbon, and are of particular importance and interest to the european parliament, are positive and substantial elements. the european parliament is taking on a new role as a legislative body alongside the european council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the decisions of the summit represent an intensification of the anti-people policy of the eu and of the bourgeois governments, harsh measures against the working class and the popular strata to strengthen the profitability and position of the european monopolies, both in the context of the single internal market and in international imperialist competition. the 'eu strategy 2020', continuation and deepening of the 'lisbon strategy', puts as a priority the acceleration of capitalist restructuring, the demolition of the remaining wage, labour and social rights of workers. a cornerstone of the eu's strategy to emerge from the capitalist crisis is the imposition of sweeping changes to social security systems, the raising of retirement ages, the drastic reduction of wages, pensions and social benefits in general. the deficits and the public debt, the procedures for monitoring the economies of various member states, including greece, are being used to ideologically terrorize the workers. this anti-people eu policy bears the stamp of both pasok and new democracy, which supported and support the choices of capital, while burdening the consequences of the crisis on the backs of the workers. the kke calls on the working class to organise its counter-attack, to condemn the parties of the euro-path. to participate in the mass strike mobilization of december 17th organized by the class forces of pame.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
in writing. i voted against the resolution because it as a whole promotes the liberalisation of markets, the creation of a trading system which is only to the detriment of poor and developing countries and which shows no real concern for the environmental needs of the planet. i believe that trade liberalisation and its disastrous effects, which have contributed to the current financial, economic, climate and food crises, job losses, poverty and deindustrialisation, must be rejected. i also voted against because the resolution does not fully respect the right of governments to protect their capacity to regulate and provide basic services, particularly in the area of public goods and services such as health, education, culture, communications, transport, water and energy supply. unfortunately, the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl were voted down. we will strive for genuine reform of the international trading system, aimed at establishing rules for fair trade that comply with international standards in the areas of social justice, respect for the environment, food sovereignty and security, sustainable agriculture, sustainable development and cultural diversity.
in writing. i voted against the resolution because it is inspired by the doctrine and policy of the 'war on terrorism' which has justified and continues to justify restrictions on rights and freedoms, and which legitimises military interventions and actions, which were also established by the treaty of lisbon. the european parliament is also ultimately excluded from co-legislating, examining and monitoring measures relating to individual rights and counter-terrorism policies, which weakens its role on very critical issues. finally, i would stress that, unfortunately, an amendment was voted which distorts the role of ngos, turning them into informers and vehicles for the various security services 'to combat terrorism' instead of helping the societies in which they operate.
on behalf of memorial, winner of the 2009 sakharov prize. − (translated from the original russian) ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the memorial organisation, let me thank the european parliament for this high accolade – the sakharov prize. memorial views this award as being not only for our organisation: the prize is being awarded to the entire human rights community in russia and, more broadly, to an appreciable section of russian society. for 40 years now, first in the soviet union and then in russia, human rights defenders have been standing up for ‘european’ – that is to say, universal – values. this struggle has always been tragic, and has in recent years claimed the lives of the best and the most fearless. i am sure that, in awarding the sakharov prize to memorial, the european parliament had them in mind, first and foremost – our dead friends and comrades-in-arms. this prize belongs by right to them. and the first name i should cite is that of natalya estemirova, a fellow member of memorial, murdered this summer in chechnya. i cannot go on without mentioning other names, too: the lawyer stanislav markelov and journalists anna politkovskaya and anastasia baburova, murdered in moscow; ethnologist nikolai girenko, shot in st petersburg; farid babayev, murdered in dagestan; and many others – sadly, this list that could go on for a long time. i would ask you to rise to honour the memory of these people. (the house rose and observed a moment’s silence.) these people died so that russia could become a genuinely european country, where public and political life is based on the primacy of the life and freedom of each single individual. that means they also died for europe, since a europe without russia is incomplete. i hope everyone understands that, when i speak of ‘european values’ and ‘european political culture’, i do not ascribe to such terms any geographical content or any ‘eurocentrism’, because a political culture based on freedom and the rights of the individual embodies a universal system of values that is equally fitting for europe and for africa, for russia and for china. today’s event is symbolic and interconnected: the award itself, the day on which it is being presented, those making the award and those receiving it. andrei sakharov, who died 20 years ago, was a distinguished champion of human rights as well as a distinguished thinker. he advanced two major propositions. the first was that only by overcoming political disunity and enmity does humanity have the chance to survive and develop, and the opportunity to cope with the global challenges of the age and to secure world peace and progress on our planet. the second proposition was that the only reliable support for our efforts to overcome the political disunity of the modern world is human rights, and, first and foremost, intellectual freedom. the european union, whose parliament instituted this prize while sakharov was still alive, is, perhaps, today the closest model to that future united humanity dreamt of by andrei dmitrievich sakharov. in recent times russia and europe have been increasingly set in opposition to one other. in russia, it has become fashionable to talk about ‘russia’s special path’, about ‘russia’s special spirituality’ and even about ‘special national values’. and in the euro-atlantic world one often hears opinions of russia as an ‘odd man out’ among countries, one whose political development is determined by its history and specific characteristics, and similar speculative constructs. what is there to say in this regard? russia, just like any other country, has its own path towards ordering life on the basis of universal human foundations. no nation in the world organises its life according to ideas and designs entirely borrowed from outside, but russia’s connection with europe is far from being determined only by who borrows and from whom. the question can be put another way: has russia brought something to the pan-european and universal civilisation taking shape before our eyes? and here i would like to recall russia’s unique contribution to the spiritual and political progress of europe and humanity: the key role played by the soviet human rights movement in forming modern political culture. sakharov rethought the role of human rights and intellectual freedom in the modern world as far back as 1968. his ideas were transferred to the practical level by the human rights organisations created by soviet dissidents – first and foremost, the moscow helsinki group, represented here today by lyudmila alexeyeva. these organisations were the first to declare publicly that fine-sounding declarations about international protection of human rights could not just remain declarations. we succeeded in mobilising world public opinion and the western political elite was forced to move away from its traditional pragmatism. naturally, this development also gave rise to a multitude of new problems that are still not fully resolved – an example being the doctrine of humanitarian intervention. nevertheless, over the last 30 years a considerable amount has been achieved, although much more still lies ahead to be done. russian human rights defenders of the 1970s were at the origins of this process and, if only for that reason, russia cannot be struck from the list of european countries. in russia, in the last third of the 20th century, as nowhere else, the human rights movement became synonymous with citizenship and russian human rights thinking was able to develop as far as sakharov’s global generalisations and take on the quality of a new political philosophy. this is linked to the unique nature of russia’s tragic history in the 20th century, to the need to comprehend and overcome the bloody and dirty past. if the second world war was the impetus for the post-war political modernisation of western europe, having become the logical conclusion of the relatively short period of domination by the nazi regime in germany, then for the ussr and russia the need for reconstruction was dictated by the experience of 70 years of domination by the communist regime, the culmination of which was stalin’s terrorist dictatorship. the two key components of resurgent russian citizenship were legal consciousness and historical memory. the human rights movement positioned itself, from the outset, first and foremost as a movement for overcoming stalinism in the public, political and cultural life of the country. in one of this movement’s first public texts – a leaflet distributed by the organisers of the historic meeting of 5 december 1965 in defence of the law – it was said in this regard, with the utmost simplicity and brevity: ‘the bloody past calls us to vigilance in the present’. in essence, this special connection between two components of civil consciousness – legal thinking and historical memory – is inherited in its entirety by russia’s modern human rights community, and perhaps also by russian civil society as a whole. i believe that the paramount importance that sakharov attached to memorial in the last years and months of his life is linked to the fact that he understood clearly this specific aspect. in the activity of memorial, these two basic components of russian public awareness have merged into one whole. it is my view that now also, on the 20th anniversary of sakharov’s death, the members of the european parliament, in choosing the recipient of the prize, also felt and understood this specific aspect. we all remember the resolution on european conscience and totalitarianism, adopted by the european parliament in april. this resolution, like the osce resolution that followed in july, on divided europe reunited, demonstrates that a united europe understands the sense and thrust of our work. memorial thanks you for this understanding. the absurdity of the present-day political situation in russia is illustrated clearly by the fact that our own parliament – the parliament of the country that suffered most and longest of all from stalinism and communist dictatorship – instead of warmly supporting these resolutions, immediately declared them ‘anti-russian’! this shows that, even today, stalinism is not, for russia, simply a historical episode of the 20th century. we let slip a few years of confused and incomplete political freedom. the main feature of communist totalitarianism – the attitude to people as an expendable resource – was not eliminated. the aims of state policy are determined, as before, regardless of the opinion and interests of the country’s citizens. the establishment of a regime of ‘imitation democracy’ in today’s russia is connected precisely with this. all of the institutions of modern democracy are resolutely imitated: a multi-party system, parliamentary elections, separation of powers, an independent judicial system, independent television broadcasting, and so on. but such an imitation, going by the name of ‘socialist democracy’, also existed under stalin. today, mass terror is not needed for imitation: there are enough stereotypes of public consciousness and behaviour preserved from the stalinist era. on the other hand, terror is also used when necessary. over the last 10 years more than 3 000 people in the chechen republic have ‘disappeared’ – that is to say, been abducted, tortured, summarily executed and buried no one knows where. at first these crimes were perpetrated by representatives of the federal authorities, but they then handed this ‘work’, so to speak, over to local security structures. how many russian security officials are punished for these crimes? a mere handful. who ensured they were called to account and judged? first and foremost, the human rights defender natalya estemirova, the journalist anna politkovskaya, the lawyer stanislav markelov. where are they all? murdered. we see that the violence routinely taking place in chechnya is extending beyond its borders and threatening to spread to the whole country. yet we see that, even in such circumstances, people are found who are prepared to oppose a return to the past. and this is a basis for hope. we all understand that nobody can return russia to the path of freedom and democracy but russia itself, its people and its civil society. what is more, the situation in our country is not as straightforward as it might appear to the superficial observer. we have many allies in society – both in the struggle for human rights and in the struggle with stalinism. what can we expect here from european politicians and from european public opinion? andrei dmitrievich sakharov formulated these expectations more than 20 years ago: ‘my country needs support and pressure’. a united europe has opportunities for such a firm and, at the same time, friendly policy based on support and pressure but is far from making full use of them. i would like to mention just two examples. the first is the work of the european court of human rights with respect to complaints by russian citizens. the very possibility that victims may appeal to strasbourg compels russian courts to work in a qualitative and independent way. the main thing is that enforcement of the judgments of the european court should remove the causes leading to violation of human rights. in recent years more than 100 judgments have been delivered in strasbourg in ‘chechen’ cases, concerning serious crimes by representatives of the state against citizens. yet what happens? nothing. russia duly pays the victims the compensation ordered by the european court, as some sort of ‘impunity tax’, refusing to investigate the crimes and punish those guilty. moreover, not only are all the generals mentioned by name in the strasbourg judgments not brought before the courts, but they are put forward for promotion. so what if the committee of ministers of the council of europe is called upon to monitor enforcement of the court’s judgments? in strasbourg they shrug: ‘what can we do?’ – and remain silent. the second, more general, example concerns relations between russia and the european union in the area of human rights. today they virtually boil down to the fact that the european union holds consultations with russia on this subject once every six months. how is this opportunity used? officials, not of the highest rank, talk for a few hours behind closed doors – europe asks about chechnya, russia answers with a question about estonia or latvia, and they go their separate ways for another six months. both russian and international non-governmental organisations hold fringe events and hearings, and present reports. in meetings with human rights defenders, the representatives of brussels sigh sadly: ‘what can we do?’ – and remain silent. so what should europe do in relation to russia? from our point of view, the answer is simple: it should act towards russia just as it does towards any other european country that has taken on certain obligations and has a responsibility to meet them. alas, today, europe increasingly rarely formulates its recommendations to russia in the area of democracy and human rights, sometimes even preferring not to mention them at all. it is not important why this is the case – whether it is a sense of the futility of efforts or pragmatic considerations linked to oil and gas. it is europe’s duty not to remain silent but, again and again, to repeat and remind, and insist respectfully and firmly that russia meet its obligations. (applause) of course, not only are there no guarantees, but there are also no particular hopes that these calls will achieve their objectives. however, failure to remind will certainly be understood by the russian authorities as indulgence. taking sensitive issues off the agenda unequivocally harms russia. but it also harms europe just as much, since it places in doubt the commitment of the european institutions to european values. the prize you are awarding today is awarded ‘for freedom of thought’. one would think, how can thought not be free, who can limit its freedom and how? there is a means – it is the fear that becomes part of a person’s personality and makes that person think and even feel as required. people are not only afraid, they find an outlet in ‘loving big brother’, as described by george orwell. so it was when russia had stalin, and so it was when germany had hitler. this is now being repeated in chechnya, under ramzan kadyrov. such fear can spread throughout russia. yet what can stand up to fear? however paradoxical it may be, purely and solely freedom of thought. this quality, possessed by sakharov to an unusual degree, made him impervious to fear. and watching him also freed others from fear. freedom of thought is the basis of all other freedoms. that is why it is so appropriate for the sakharov prize to be awarded ‘for freedom of thought’. we are proud to receive it today. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation.)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the new eu action programme for afghanistan and pakistan.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? the council is very grateful for the european parliament's enormous commitment to this issue. i'm here to answer a few questions. the following table lists the active substances: the action plan is based on a regional perspective. it's the center of the world. it places a very high emphasis on good governance, the fight against corruption and the rule of law. here afghanistan and pakistan will need support for a very, very long time. kasoulides is right that we have not paid enough attention to the drugs problem. we support the efforts that are being made, such as unidoc cooperation and technical assistance. this has to go on. the most important thing, of course, is to support the afghan government's efforts to create greater prosperity and good governance. i would like to say to mr arlacchi that we agree that the efforts made so far have not been sufficiently coordinated. it is a problem for the eu and that is why it is so important that we have this plan now. the swedish presidency has also been struggling hard this autumn to produce the kind of information you are asking for - who is doing what and how much - and to get a coherent idea of this. we now have a better grip and we are really looking forward to your report, which can help us in this work as we go forward, and also to cooperation with you and the foreign affairs committee. i would like to say to mr danjean that eupol is a very important part of the cooperation and the most important part for the afghan government in terms of civilian police work. it has been shown that there is a very strong leadership in place. the quality of eupol is recognised by all parties the afghans, the us and other parties. here we have increased the strength of 280 international staff. unfortunately, the member states have not been able to provide the 400 people we need, and a call for contributions is currently under way because we want the member states to contribute here. as it stands today, eupol is consolidating its activities in six strategic areas where we believe it can add value: police intelligence, criminal investigations, police command structure, police-prosecutor links, the fight against corruption and human rights and gender equality. these are the afghan priorities. nato will now be involved in police training through its training mission and here we must of course intensify cooperation. finally, i would say that the action plan is extremely important in ensuring that the eu uses its resources in a better and more coordinated way. now we have to focus on implementing all these good ideas. this is done through the regional perspective, through the own responsibility of the afghan and pakistani governments and by focusing on our political priorities, the rule of law, democracy and human rights. the eu is a partner. a very important partner, but there are others in the region. of course, we have to work together here. we look forward to the london conference, where karzai will hopefully present his plans, and that we can extend support afterwards. eu support is long-term and sustainable and it should be sustainable. that is the signal we must give. this is gonna take time. we have to be realistic. it is a very, very extensive work that lies ahead of us. that is why the eu's involvement needs to be there. we must signal that we will be here for a long time, not least for the sake of women and children, as many members have said.
vice-president designate of the commission. − mr president, i will just pick up, if i may, a few key points which were raised by honourable members. agreeing with the presidency on the issues of narcotics, what we have sought to do is develop a comprehensive response which really brings together the rural development aspects of it with social issues and, of course, the rule of law. it is very important to tackle it from all of the different perspectives. i agree with what honourable members were saying about the importance of civilian issues. we have actually made significant progress; a number of members were concerned about that. just one example: in 2002 we had health-care take-up support of around 7% of the population; it is now at 85% in 2009. i can give other examples; that is just one where i think we can absolutely show what we are doing and how effective it has been on the ground. i agree too with what was said by members such as mrs lambert about education being absolutely core to what we do in terms of support for children and also of course in terms of training for employment with adults. the funds: i am pleased to say that actually these are very well-run funds. they are managed through the un or through the world bank and i think honourable members receive a state of play report. the last one i have here is dated july 2009. for those who have not seen it we can make sure you receive copies. it demonstrates in very clear terms exactly where the money is going, exactly what it is being spent on and what we hope to achieve by that. but i do agree that we need to be more efficient. there is always room for that. one of the challenges of my role is to bring together what is happening on the ground, to make it more coherent and make it work more effectively. a number of colleagues have mentioned the need to make sure we fulfil the commitments on eupol. it was mentioned that we have to work collaboratively with nato; i have already had one meeting with the secretary-general of nato and i was at the meeting with general mcchrystal and richard holbrook and with secretary of state clinton, to talk about afghanistan. we are already building up to the london conference in our dialogue with those important and key partners on the ground. of course what has been said about the regional aspects is extremely important. we do want as part of the action plan to pull together that regional cooperation. there is work going on: very practical work to develop that, particularly rail links and trade cooperation and so on. but i agree absolutely: there is more that we should be doing on that. the london conference on 28 january is the next significant milestone and will raise issues of security, governance, and social, economic and regional development – very important issues. issues that i have identified are education, health, economic development, trade, justice and human rights, all of them issues on which i can say that i have a great deal of experience.
in writing. the eu's 'new action programme' for afghanistan and pakistan comes to implement the eu's strategic aim of playing an even more active imperialist role in afghanistan and pakistan, as well as in the wider region. in pakistan, a free trade agreement is being pushed forward, which will allow greater penetration of eu monopolies in the south asian region. in afghanistan, it is seeking to further stabilise its presence, both independently with the eupol afghanistan police mission and within nato, by deploying a european police force. the inter-imperialist contradictions over the division of the spoils despite the strategy of cooperation with the usa and nato are intensifying. the eu, with a budget of up to 1 billion euros a year and various 'development programmes', is trying to strengthen the position of european capital in plundering the occupied country and to gain a foothold for exploiting the peoples and wealth of the wider region. at the same time, with its policy of 'exporting democracy', it is trying to extend its reach into the imperialist occupation structure. the people cannot choose the "best imperialist". we must strengthen our struggle against the plans of all the imperialists to remove the imperialist yoke of occupation from afghanistan and the wider region.
president-in-office of the council. − this is, indeed, a very important question and as you know the council has already received the commission proposal and has started to discuss the future of the lisbon strategy or europe 2020. that will be decided by the spanish presidency later next spring. one issue is how do we, on a long-term basis, come out of the current situation? how can we create a europe that is more competitive, with more entrepreneurship, and avoid social exclusion and unemployment? how do we invest in research and development in order for europe to be the strong global player that we want it to be in the economic field? all that will possibly fit into the new strategy. one very important aspect of the strategy is the governance method. i think the open method of coordination has advantages but it needs to be improved. we need to involve much more local and regional authorities because they are the ones who do the real implementation. we need to have national ownership of the process and we need to look at governance. that is also explained in the paper from the commission, which is now out for consultation among the member states. i think very good proposals will come up for that as it is indeed one of the weak points of the strategy.
president-in-office of the council. − as i said, the ultimate responsibility to create jobs of course lies with the member states. but there is a lot to do and – as i referred to in my introductory remarks to mrs harkin – the council has made a lot of recommendations regarding how you could work in increasing the flexibility, work with the different support systems and activate people in order to avoid the exclusion mechanism. it is very important that we continue with these meetings at a high level with the social partners and the member states in order to exchange best practices. they do vary between the countries, but we need to give each other examples and to monitor the best ways that could be used thereafter. so it is a combination of the council giving recommendations and the member states needing to take their share of responsibility and adjust a little, depending on the circumstances in the countries. referring to your question, sir, i am not really sure that i understood it. maybe there was a translation problem. i did not refer to any micro-authority. i referred to the globalisation fund which we have now, with the help of the european parliament, made more flexible in order to obtain support for member states and for companies who run into difficulties to help with people who are unemployed or who are dismissed.
acting president of the council. − a key part of the eu's strategy to better manage migration is to establish partnerships with third countries on border control. it is a central part of the concept of integrated border management, adopted by the council in december 2006. i would also like to mention that operational cooperation with third countries is an important part of the work carried out by frontex. in accordance with the frontex regulation, frontex may facilitate operational cooperation between member states and third countries in the framework of the external relations policy of the european union and cooperate with third countries in the framework of bilateral cooperation. several such arrangements have already been concluded and others are currently under discussion. the negotiating mandate is given by the management board, in which all member states are represented. the discussions between frontex and the competent turkish authorities on operational cooperation are now well advanced. as the negotiations have not been concluded, it is difficult for the council to comment in detail on the content and development of the discussions.
madam president, madam minister, i understand from your reply today that there are three points: the first is that the negotiations between frontex and turkey are at an advanced stage. the second is that the negotiations are known, i think, to all the members of the european union and therefore to greece as well. finally, according to the conclusions of the recent foreign ministers' meeting, the readmission agreement is linked to border control. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if that is the case, how can the serious question of protecting the human rights and dignity of migrants be overcome, and how can the particularly sensitive question of border control be overcome, as well as the question of defining borders? the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. is it acceptable for frontex to operate at the external borders of the european union?
president-in-office of the council. − this is of course a very vast question. negotiations with turkey have just started. the representative from the commission, commissioner barrot, and mr billström, the swedish minister for migration and asylum policy, were in turkey just a few weeks ago in order to start those discussions. the first discussions were fruitful but they have not yet reached an end so it is very difficult to give you an update. all member states, including greece, are of course kept informed of the discussions. in general, the respect for fundamental rights and european values are always mentioned in this regard so there is no exclusion for turkey in that respect. but, as i said to the honourable member, discussions have just started; they are making good progress but they have not been finalised yet. they have been carried out openly in the way that all member states are involved via the board of frontex, where greece is also represented.
madam president, madam minister, i understand that the consultation we are having with turkey on the final conclusion of a readmission agreement on migration issues will include issues relating to cooperation on frontex. and the second thing i want to say: we have recently seen in greece that frontex aircraft have been harassed by the turkish authorities. the commission's replies do not provide any concrete information on the communication and whether it is harassment. do you have any comment on that?
president-in-office of the council. − in times of economic crisis it is always the most vulnerable who suffer the most – children, young people, old people, people with disabilities – and that is why we as responsible politicians have to be very aware of this. it has been added to the conclusions of various council formations and recommendations that member states should be encouraged to take particular consideration of the fact that the most vulnerable groups are always those who suffer most, so i do agree with that. in response to your question, without first having the general overall far-reaching directive, it is very difficult to set standards of a european character in the area of discrimination against disabled people. we need to have the overall directive first and then work from there. i realise that a great deal of work has to be done, and i am well aware of the massive discrimination and the difficulties that disabled people face in ordinary life, which hinder them in fulfilling their life’s possibilities and potential. i think we need to work on the overall directive first. the decision to have next year as the year for combating social exclusion presents the possibility to come up with new concrete proposals and organise common events to reinforce this issue and awareness in all member states.
acting president of the council. - as the honourable member knows, respect for human rights is one of the values on which the european union is founded. the council always pays particular attention to ensuring respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in all its relations with third countries. as for the specific events reported by the member of parliament, they have not been brought to the attention of the council, nor have they been discussed in the council. the presidency has also read the newspapers and taken note of the media coverage, but also notes that the latest information suggests that the original story was a hoax. because of the contradictory nature of the media coverage and because the council does not normally comment on media reports, the presidency cannot and should not speculate on this story or react to the issue itself.
madam president, i must say that i am not at all satisfied with the minister's answer. it is a terrible crime, an unprecedented crime, i would say, and in any case i think that the european union, when it wants to, has the means to investigate matters of this nature more thoroughly. and because of the relations with peru, we demand that there be an official report from the peruvian government on this incident and that measures be taken. otherwise we will see the same situations repeated.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the european union's cohesion policy has not only failed to reduce regional and social disparities, but has contributed to their exacerbation. the values given by statistics are often false, something which the european union itself admits, and that is why it has created the transitional support scheme for a number of regions, three of which are in my country, greece. the law of uneven growth in the capitalist system is relentless, especially in times of crisis, when the contradictions become even more acute. unfortunately, the forecasts for 2013 are even more difficult for workers, especially in the less developed regions. the european union's cohesion policy is designed to make this anti-people policy look good, to buy consciences, to disorient workers and, above all, to ensure the profitability of capital. the search for a temporary balance between the contradictions of the various sections of the bourgeoisie, misleadingly called 'solidarity', is now being replaced by the rule of competition and the free market. these elements are also present in the lisbon strategy and the european union strategy for 2020. this requires new forms of regional and local government, as proposed in greece by pasok and new democracy, wider and more direct involvement of the european union in regional bodies, and different territorial cooperation, which will also transcend national borders. we call on the workers to reject this policy. finally, i should like to take this opportunity to ask you, mr president, to use your influence to meet the legitimate demands of the workers in the european parliament who are on strike.
mr president, i agree with the colleagues who have spoken so far and i would like to stress for my part that we cannot accept a cohesion policy after 2013 which, firstly, discriminates between the regions of the european union with proposals such as the abolition of objective 2 (competitiveness), secondly, involves the renationalization of policies and, thirdly, excludes local authorities from the planning and implementation of community programmes. on the contrary, we envisage a cohesion policy beyond 2013, a period which will continue to be a common european policy, applied in all the regions of the european union, will continue to have adequate financial means to achieve its objective and will have simplified implementation rules to achieve even greater added value. i was troubled by the content of the 2020 strategy document, because there is no reference to cohesion policy, which is the most appropriate tool for meeting the lisbon objectives, and much of cohesion policy already serves these objectives and has proven its added value. the fact that cohesion policy has been the spearhead of the european economic recovery plan is also a significant proof of its importance. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission's proposals are not only a step in the right direction, but also a step in the wrong direction, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the proposals are implemented. but you can be sure, mr president, that we will remind them of this at every opportunity.
mr president, i consider the decision of our parliamentary committee on this debate today to be very important, and it is very interesting, given that so many issues have been raised, very important issues, which concern not only an effective cohesion policy after 2013 but also the character of the european union. i would like to point out that this debate, this reflection, is taking place at a very special time in the european union: on the one hand, we have taken a positive step towards its completion with the treaty of lisbon, on the other hand we are still experiencing the consequences of an unprecedented international financial crisis, in which we all realized how important the solidarity of the european union is in supporting the internal market and convergence. i would also like to ask the european commission about two issues which are of concern to the european parliament, sharing the concerns of my colleagues: the commission's proposals are not only a good way of ensuring that the community's cohesion policy is not undermined by the economic crisis, but also a way of ensuring that the community's cohesion policy is not undermined by the economic crisis.
mr president, my colleagues have covered the main points of our debate today. i would like to emphasize only two points. the first is that in many cases the conditions and possibilities for exploiting our cohesion policies and programmes cannot be met and, finally, for operational and, above all, bureaucratic reasons, this cannot be done. so the more we simplify our procedures and our policies, the closer we are to what we are seeking, european cohesion. the second point is that we have said that we are in any case on the way out of the economic crisis which is currently afflicting europe and the world. if we are to be optimistic, it is clear that we must strengthen the areas that are most in need and above all, if you will allow me - and on this i would like a response from the commission - those social groups that are most in need of strengthening, and i am referring in particular to young people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
