i would like to draw attention to another discriminatory decision following the discriminatory measures taken in 2004 against employees from new member states working in the european institutions, which were later found to be unlawful by the court of justice of the european communities in 2008. four and a half years later, the new member states still feel that they are second-class citizens. what happened, mr president, is that last year a call for applications was opened for the post of head of the hungarian interpreters working in the european parliament, open to any national of a member state. the head of the interpreting service must not only carry out coordinating and administrative tasks, but also translate the language of the european union into hungarian. mr. president, it is outrageous that out of two suitable candidates, a hungarian and a british candidate, the british candidate was chosen. can you imagine french-language services being filled by an englishman or a spaniard? mr president, this is unacceptable discrimination and seriously damages the linguistic translation of european union documents. i object on behalf of all the new member states.
mr. chairman, members of the house. in the global era of the unhealthy domination of cola and chips, i raise my voice in defense of the hungarian vine and wine culture of the carpathian basin, which is also important in the world. under misunderstood eu directives, european money is now used to support those who cut down their vineyards and punish those who plant new, noble grape varieties. in the carpathian basin, in historic hungary, lies one of the largest vineyards in europe, covering some 600,000 hectares. in 1948, hungary still had 260,000 hectares of wine grapes, but today that area has shrunk to 40,000 hectares. how long can the carpathian wine industry, vineyards and the natural environment continue to be destroyed in this way? wine, wheat, peace! with this hungarian greeting, i wish you a blessed new year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis which many initially regarded as a media scare is now here in europe, hitting countries, regions, local communities, businesses and, in particular, families and workers. two of my congressmen have spoken about it. the commission's communication stresses that the effects of the recession are not felt in the same way. the negative effects are particularly acute at the margins of europe and society. to avoid the current situation leading to the erosion of the principle of decent work and to avoid an explosion of poverty, we must concentrate resources. i therefore welcome the commission's communication and the dedicated appeal by commissioner špidla, who is urging european efforts to protect the most vulnerable social groups in a time of declining economic activity. the commission's differentiated approach gives reason to hope that a united europe does not mean forced uniformity, especially in times of crisis. i hope and expect that the european parliament will support him in this.
my fellow members, food safety is a priority for the eu, but this is a bad compromise. hungary in the council and the hungarian members of the european parliament do not accept this report because it is harmful to european agriculture. we have two particularly big problems. the zoning system is artificial and contrary to the subsidiarity principle of the european union, and does not allow for a flexible response, as my dutch colleague has just shown. it is also bad for european agriculture because the level of risks is increasing, the risk of resistance is increasing, production costs are increasing and many people have mentioned that we will not be able to control products from non-eu member states. in this sense, this directive presents very serious risks. finally, radical environmental considerations mean that the reduction of pesticides will create a space for gmos, which would not be desirable here in europe.
in the case of the directive on the use of plant protection products, i am glad that it has been essentially placed under national jurisdiction, particularly with regard to the size of the buffer zone and its definition. i support the requirement for action plans at member state level and the focus of legislation on reducing the quantity of use. i'm also pleased with the compromise on aerial spraying. as regards the regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market, the draft is generally good when it concerns the prohibition or increased substitution of plant protection products which are seriously harmful to human health. i also see a problem with the control of materials coming from third countries. i find the authorisation of plant protection products in zone 3 unacceptable. it does not take a plant protection expert to be horrified by the thought that hungary, for example, would be in a zone with ireland that is very different from a climatic and agricultural point of view.
in writing. the biggest question for the european agricultural sector in 2009 is how the global economic crisis will affect the production conditions and consumption of agricultural products. the issue will also be the central theme of the 2nd hungarian agricultural academy, which i will organize together with state secretary gőgös zoltán fvm on 17 april 2009 in pápá. since 2006, the price of maize has tripled and the world market price of wheat has increased by 180%, while food prices have risen by 83% overall. by 2050, the world's population will grow to 9 billion people, and to feed them, we will need to double the current level of agricultural production, so the era of cheap food is over. it is therefore of the utmost importance to preserve and, where possible, increase the agricultural potential of the european union. it is unacceptable that the cap's sectoral reforms have led to a decline in agricultural production in the european union. this is well illustrated by the sugar reform that led to the disappearance of the hungarian sugar industry, the aid for the cutting of grape vines in the framework of the wine reform, and the decoupling of direct agricultural aid from production. we need to find the right balance between food production and biofuel production, without the latter jeopardising global food security. the us bioethanol programme played a significant role in the food price explosion of 2008, and the european union should review its previous commitment to the biofuels ratio in the light of experience. finally, i urge action at eu level to combat the emergence of food retail monopolies and to protect producers.
in writing. membership of a civil society organisation provides an opportunity for a european citizen to actively participate in policy-making. the real challenge in achieving the union's objectives is to involve citizens actively in this process and to provide them with concrete, tangible opportunities to take initiatives, to provide feedback, criticism and to express their views. however, the lack of a uniform and precise legal definition of ngos can cause difficulties. in order to make union citizens aware of the benefits of the union for them, democracy, transparency and efficiency in the functioning of the european union need to be further enhanced. the democratic deficit is often the result of citizens not always having access to relevant information. as regards community decision-making, some documents remain inaccessible and the process of further broadening the accessibility of community working documents should be continued. the consultation mechanism is an integral part of the work of the european institutions. we need to establish general principles and minimum standards for consultation, and to create a framework for consultation that is coherent but flexible enough to adapt to the specific needs of the parties concerned.
in writing. the european parliament today decided to significantly tighten the use of the solvent dichloromethane. as the socialist group's topic manager, i welcome the decision, which has a lot of work to do. in recent years, many people have died from the use of dichloromethane. the highly volatile substance damages the nervous system and is therefore a carcinogen. the victims were mainly individual users, those who paint their own homes, and room painters, since industrial plants follow certain safety standards. in some european plants, such high concentrations of this substance have been detected that in case of sustained exposure in 10% of workers, cancer would be caused. the compromise agreement which has just been voted on means that dichloromethane can only be used in the future for paint removal in industry, subject to strict safety requirements. the public and craftsmen can dispose of excess paint by using one of a number of similarly effective but not harmful chemicals, or by burning it, for example. most important, the carcinogenic substance should not be used in enclosed public areas, such as shopping malls and subways, because the volatile substance vapor is heavier than air, so it is measured to sink, and it is especially dangerous for children. our group has taken the views of the trade unions concerned very seriously in this decision, since the health of workers is our primary concern in industrial applications.
madam president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the czech presidency has chosen the slogan 'europe without frontiers' as its motto and considers energy policy and economic stability to be among its key priorities. i would also like to stress that the european citizen should be included among these priorities. i would urge that more attention be paid to issues that directly affect the daily lives of citizens. more emphasis should be placed on strengthening modern european social programmes, ensuring european solidarity and equal opportunities, and implementing minority policies. and i agree with those who are pushing for the ratification of the lisbon treaty. citizens need to be more involved in european politics, because i believe that the lack of social packages and effective communication is causing citizens to have less and less trust in european institutions. i would like to stress the importance of education... [woman interrupting speaker]
in writing. – the economic recovery plan – agreed in december – is a major step in the right direction to cope with the current economic slowdown. it must now see its concrete aspects implemented rapidly and effectively. in this respect, the union ought to maximise its efforts in facilitating access to available resources. we should, therefore – while restoring confidence in our financial market – particularly improve and simplify measures in order to accelerate implementation of structural and cohesion funds. cohesion policy is the greatest instrument of solidarity in the union, and its role in tackling the negative effects of a global crisis of this scale is, of course, essential. moreover, let me welcome among the priorities of the new czech presidency the will to initiate discussion on the redefinition of the less favoured areas parallel to the commission communication. a better delimitation of these areas will indeed help in better targeting their needs and foster their development potentials and thus work in line with the objectives of social, territorial and economic convergence throughout the union. we need indeed to further our efforts to avoid the negative consequences of the crisis not only on the economy but on our citizens, mainly the most vulnerable ones.
in writing. the czech presidency is in a difficult situation. it is difficult to take over the reins for the first time after a presidency which, as one of europe's engines, has steered the union's ship many times with a strong commitment. it's in a difficult position because the financial crisis is now starting to take its toll across europe. and it is in a difficult position because it has to deal not only with the extreme eurosceptics in the european parliament but also with high-ranking representatives of the domestic political community. the programme of the czech presidency, however, seems to be a programme that seeks to keep the european union in balance. the europe without borders programme has a higher focus, not only on managing the economic crisis but also on the long-term and consistent implementation of eu principles. the czech republic is the first country in the east-central europe region to have all the essential characteristics of the newly joined countries and will therefore try to represent the needs of the new member states proportionately in its presidency programme. we are pleased that the czech presidency is responding to the economic crisis by developing its internal workforce and increasing its vertical mobility. i would, however, recommend that the presidency pay particular attention to improving the situation of the most disadvantaged regions and the roma minority, as they represent a cross-border social and economic problem at european level. the eu's ageing population and the resulting social tensions can be addressed by exploiting the long-term uncompetitive domestic labour force with knowledge and skills, in addition to the employment of immigrants.
mr president, i voted in favour of the catania report because it removes the previous shortcomings in the area of minority rights. this issue is particularly important for hungary and for minorities living in hungary and beyond. the report emphasises the protection of minority languages and states that the use of the mother tongue is one of the most fundamental rights. unfortunately, this has not been the case in many eu member states in recent times. the report also stresses the need to define the definition of belonging to a national minority. i think this is fundamentally important for the 150 minorities in europe. finally, i think paragraph 49 is particularly important, which states that self-determination is the most effective means of dealing with the problems of national minority communities, and that the best examples of personal, cultural, territorial and regional autonomy in the eu should be followed.
mr president, the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union which has just been adopted is a comprehensive report and a breakthrough in many respects. particular attention should be paid to the presentation of children's rights and basic social rights. i particularly appreciate the fact that the rights and problems of traditional national minorities have been properly addressed by laying down the principles of self-government and the use of languages, which the union has lagged behind in the area of normalisation. that is why i supported and fought for the adoption of this report, and that is why the hungarian delegation to the people's party voted in favour of the report, despite the fact that many of the paragraphs of the report that were adopted are controversial, that we cannot agree with and that we consider unacceptable to regulate at eu level.
mr. president, i apologize for not calling you. i didn't know. as a minority, discriminated hungarian and a man of the church, i voted in good conscience and with the necessary willingness to compromise for the catania report on fundamental rights, as i consider it a major step forward in many respects, for example in terms of social rights. i particularly welcome the chapter on minority rights, which can be the basis and the beginning of the creation of the eu legal framework for the protection of minorities. i agree with what ms. kinga has said. the compromise was necessary because i disagree with certain points, such as the paragraph referring to euthanasia, or on issues related to homosexuality, and i reject the restriction of religious leaders in their freedom of conscience and religion in relation to homosexuality. i regret that paragraph 49 omits the wording on traditional minorities, community rights and territorial and regional autonomy.
in writing. − i consider my colleague's report to be of great importance, since human rights are one of the pillars of the values of the european union as enshrined in the treaties. in addition to democracy and the rule of law, we demand respect for human rights from the countries that want to join, and we also emphasise the promotion of universal and indivisible rights in our international relations. however, the european union can only be credible as a global defender of human rights if it ensures, by all means, that the values enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights are fully applied in its own territory. the report devotes a separate chapter to roma, the largest minority group in the union and the most socially excluded. it is the shared responsibility of european states to address the problems of roma, who predominantly live in extreme poverty and inadequate living conditions, in the framework of a comprehensive and coherent strategy. a framework programme with clear objectives and deadlines, oriented towards action, and with effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms is needed. a programme covering education, housing, health and discrimination, which goes beyond party and government cycles and which is opposed to bad practices in member states, should be developed as a basis for immediate action in crisis regions. helping millions of roma to become full citizens of europe in social and economic terms and members of the european community in a spiritual sense is a huge step towards social cohesion on the continent.
mr president, commission, council and colleagues, i find it cynical how the parties are behaving in the gaza crisis. i find it cynical and unacceptable that hamas uses the civilian population as human shields, not sparing even children. i find it cynical and inhuman that israel uses disproportionate means in self-defence when it shoots civilians in gaza, most of them children, into the ground. i consider cynical and a liar the international diplomacy, the respect for the exception, which tries to maintain the appearance, but after all these days it cannot achieve the protection of the civilian population, the aid organizations and unfortunately it cannot protect the children. i speak for children, because there can be no cause that can justify the senseless extermination of innocent lives. we must value the life of every child equally, whether they live on either side of the border. it's a basic axiom that all warring parties must hold equally and equally important if they ever truly want peace in the region. respect for human life, acceptance of the protection of civilians as a value, and the facilitation of humanitarian assistance can be the basis for achieving a lasting ceasefire, a palestinian reconciliation and a lasting peace between palestine and israel.
on behalf of the alde group. we have an agreement, we have many promises, but there is still no gas. that's enough! we cannot tolerate europe becoming the innocent victim of a cynical power game. if the gas supply is not started immediately, there must be clear and definite consequences. we cannot tolerate the fact that millions of europeans are without heating, we cannot tolerate the fact that hundreds of thousands of jobs are at risk. europe has so far avoided conflict with the countries concerned, making political concessions, making gestures. that policy has failed. we liberals have long called for a significant reduction in our dependence on russia, our energy dependence. the clear lesson of the current crisis is that the nabucco pipeline must be made a real alternative, and that it must be supported financially. the common energy policy must be created by greater solidarity between member states, better coordination and networking. accelerate the use of renewable and alternative resources and improve energy efficiency. but this will only solve our problems in the medium and long term, and therefore kiev and moscow must be strongly warned to fulfil their international obligations, and it must be envisaged that if this does not happen, there will be consequences in all aspects of bilateral relations. russia should behave in good faith and do everything possible to ensure that gas deliveries start immediately. ukraine should also know that although it is currently paying a political price for gas, which is lower than the market price, in fact this price is much higher for it than the market price, because it preserves ukraine's blackmail, vulnerability. now the european union is being tested before its citizens. are you able to protect your own interests effectively? if it fails this test, then europe has no future at all, and if it succeeds, then it can look to the future with optimism.
madam president, now that the european union's initially hesitant but ultimately concerted and decisive action is expected to lead to the start of gas transport in the near future, despite various technical and other problems, we can take a breath, but we cannot rest easy. on the one hand, the cause of the russo-ukrainian conflict has not been identified and resolved, so it could flare up again at any time. on the other hand, the gas crisis has once again highlighted our dependence and vulnerability. this recognition can help to overcome the current delay in moving towards a common european energy policy, the first step of which is a common european responsibility for security of supply. this requires the development of new sources and transport routes and the interconnection of member states' networks. however, these cannot be expected to be built on a market basis, but european resources must be made available on the basis of the common european interest. the nabucco pipeline is a long-term solution, and the construction of the new eu member states' gas network could start today with the €5 billion provided for in the stimulus package. this is a two-in-one solution, as this investment can boost europe's economy, create jobs and mitigate the impact of similar crises.
madam president, i suggest we be clear. the european union has not learnt from the russian-ukrainian gas crisis of 2006 and has made a poor assessment of the current crisis. the decision makers faced the gas pipeline closure as if it was completely unexpected. the worst energy crisis in history may be the last wake-up call for member states to take action to reduce their energy dependence. i hope it is clear to everyone that the conflict between russia and ukraine is not just a bilateral private dispute, not just because it affects hundreds of millions of eu citizens. the current crisis is not only a test of the common energy policy but also of eu solidarity. the question now is whether member states can move beyond their current policy of separation. at stake is the european union's ability to speak and act with one voice on a matter of vital importance to it.
in writing. the european union has not learnt from the russian-ukrainian gas crisis of 2006. the decision makers faced the gas pipeline closure as if it was completely unexpected. the worst energy crisis in history may be the last wake-up call for member states to take action to reduce their dependence on energy. the conflict that has erupted between russia and ukraine is not just a bilateral private law dispute. and not just because it affects hundreds of millions of eu citizens. the current crisis is not only a test of the common energy policy but also of eu solidarity. the question now is whether member states can move beyond their current policy of separation. at stake is the european union's ability to speak and act with one voice on a matter of vital importance to it. the inaction of the past few days is particularly painful because the european commission has clearly defined the steps that can reduce europe's dependence. we can only agree with the energy security and solidarity action plan. investments are urgently needed to develop alternative transport routes and to link existing networks. expand support for energy efficiency investments and strengthen the energy dimension in the emerging eu's external policy. i believe that the current crisis would not have had such a drastic impact if the member states had not made a last-minute decision and committed themselves to the eu's common energy policy, not just in words.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the un charter states that all peoples have the right to self-determination. this also applies to the 1.5 to 2 million hungarians in transylvania. two years ago, the szekler national council organised a local referendum on the autonomy of the szeklerland region. in the mobile referendum, despite the artificially incited anti-hungarian propaganda, 99% of the 210,000 voters polled voted yes to the question. most recently, a significant number of the municipalities in szeklerland have initiated a new, fully-fledged official referendum. the state bodies and their regional representatives, the prefects, are trying to suppress the peaceful, legal and democratic will of the hungarians in szeklerland with all their might. i ask the european parliament, mr president, to follow closely the developments in romania in connection with the referendum and to defend the municipalities threatened by the authorities. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr. president, for the floor. i wish to speak because three days ago a tragic accident occurred in croatia. an 18-year-old man stepped on a landmine, and he's the most recent victim. among the victims were italians, dutchmen, other european colleagues. well, croatia is not part of the comprehensive clean-up programme that the commission is funding between 2008 and 2013, but the number of mines laid is unknown, croatia has never produced such a mine, and there are about 1000 kilometers of such landmines on its territory that threaten life. i respectfully ask the commission, or you, mr president, to ensure that croatia - as well as bosnia, ukraine, kosovo and cyprus - can take part in this european aid, because it is a very costly and very dangerous operation. i spoke as the chairman of the joint parliamentary delegation for our part . thank you for the word.
mr president, hungary joined the schengen area on 21 december 2007, and certain issues on the austrian-hungarian border have not been resolved to date. the burgenland authorities are not really talking to us, and accordingly my hungarian compatriots submitted a petition to the european parliament's committee on petitions in june 2008, which we immediately forwarded to commissioner jaques barrott, who after four months responded with great difficulty, saying that he did not have enough information about the petition and that they would contact the petitioner. two months later, i myself went to the petitioner and asked him where he was on the matter, and he told me that to this day no one had contacted him from the commission, so it was very difficult for the commission to get information. and when i went back to the commission staff again, they said, "within the best delay", we'll look into the case. i would like to ask the commission what the phrase 'within the best delay' means and i would like to express my hope that this is not how mr barrosso and mr barrott will campaign in the elections to be held in four months' time, namely 'within the best delay'. thank you very much.
thank you, mr president. ladies and gentlemen, here is a one-minute snapshot of the racism that is rampant in europe these days. in hungary, a police captain was recently acquitted of a racist statement, then reinstated on the basis of some bogus internal investigation. the investigation did not cover whether the racist statement was made or not. in romania, in the community of tărlungeni near brasso, a wall has been built between roma and non-roma families. when asked by a child of the local father why we are separated, he may reply: on this side are the bad people, and on the other side are the good people. we voted on the italian delegation report a week and a half ago, and since then, in italy, armed forces have been deployed against roma following two crimes committed by unknown perpetrators in the past week. police forces with helicopters, dogs, armed police are sweeping the roma families. thank you very much.
mr. president, i have to go. the hungarian public is following the water cannon case with great interest and wants to see the issue as soon as possible. we are asking the commission to help us. the point is that the hungarian government maintained its position throughout the years 2006-2007-2008 that it had bought new water cannons at the expense of the schengen fund and had used them for mass distribution in budapest on 22 october 2007. then, at the end of 2008, the minister for justice and police announced that the purchase had not been charged to the schengen fund eu funds . the commissioner responsible for the european commission has confirmed that the guns were not purchased from the schengen fund. a day later, the state secretary of the same ministry informed that the hungarian government had discounted the purchase of water cannons from the domestic resources of the schengen fund, contrary to the european commission. my question is: has the commission investigated whether the schengen fund was used properly in this case, and has it investigated the truth in the water cannon case? after what happened, not only the hungarian government but also the credibility and transparency of the activities of the european commission are at risk. thank you very much.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the second strategic review of energy policy could not be more timely. the security of supply of the eastern half of the union was seriously challenged by events at the beginning of the year. natural gas has been flowing back to europe since january 20th, after three weeks of crisis, but the question is, for how long? to really guarantee the security of supply, we need to draw lessons from the gas dispute. i refer to this as diversification of energy sources, sources of supply and transport routes. it is estimated that europe uses 500 billion cubic metres of gas a year, and some analyses suggest that this demand could increase by up to 30% over the next 20 years. you've already got some ideas about what the alternatives might be. the northern stream, which will deliver russian gas to europe, is already being built, the blue stream in turkey is already completed, the parties involved in the creation of the southern stream have already agreed, ukraine has proposed the creation of the white stream and there is the much-mentioned nabucco with its uncertain source and financing background. either way, the russian hangover is pretty much intact. nabucco is supposed to deliver asian gas, but so far, unlike gazprom, europe has not even made an offer to baku. what can be done now? for the moment, we have to trust that the negotiations between the european commissioners and the russian delegation at the moscow summit will be substantive, that there will be a substantive shift in the pipelines afterwards, that in the future not only the russian gas monopoly will dictate prices, as many might say. perhaps, but i see the future in less and cleaner energy consumption. this is why i believe in a green european 'new deal' that aims at sustainable growth, encourages and exploits environmental innovation. the current global economic crisis has led to a growing awareness of the need for a new economic management logic. more and more people are recognizing that to recover from the global crisis, a new engine, a new engine of organization, is needed. more and more people are recognizing the need for a paradigm shift. the green new deal, a new economic logic based on environmental innovation and supported by international capital markets, is increasingly becoming a key building block of a number of eu countries' economic rescue and recovery programmes. this stimulus is needed because last year the number of unemployed in the european union increased by 1.7 million. the european green new deal, if it is given the green light, will have a fundamental impact on europe's future energy policy. thank you very much.
in writing. eu member states were held hostage in the first weeks of 2009 by ukraine, whose leaders initiated a service-clearing dispute with moscow over the price of gas supplies. kiev has based its action on the traditional western and eastern european opposition to russia, which would bring most eu countries to its side. clearly, there was a political blunder. the eu must finally break out of its vicious circle. one of them is energy phobia, which is that we have to put up with the russians or they'll shut down the pipeline. from this wrong point, only wrong conclusions can be drawn! it's not just about energy! if the eu's long-term objective is indeed to have a partnership with a russia that is democratic, has a huge market, is capable of development and is developing, then it is also necessary to plan for the legal transfer of economic and political weight to russia. the eu must make clear, in a constructive and credible way, that it is interested in the creation of a modern russia. the eu's attitude, which is encouraging in words but stifling, withdrawing and stigmatising in deeds, is doomed to failure. the absence of a common energy and foreign policy, the disregard for the diversification of energy consumption and the emphasis on certain historical prejudices and commercial advantages make the union vulnerable. a united eu would make moscow think twice, because it's never seen anything like it. but against countries that are politically capricious, mighty russia can easily impose its will. it's about much, much more than energy.
in writing. the strategic energy review summarises all the steps needed to reduce the european union's dependence on energy sources. the gas supply disruptions of the past few weeks make certain points of the presentation particularly timely. we can only agree that the community's gas reserves regulation should be put on a new footing. in addition to the requirement for mandatory reserves, we also consider it necessary to strengthen solidarity mechanisms through community legislation, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. the energy review prepared by the commission is welcome to identify investments which are of common interest to all member states. it is a welcome development that the presentation identifies the interconnection of central and south-eastern european gas pipelines as an important objective alongside the southern gas corridor. the significance of the initiative, which was originally linked to mol, is that it will make it easier for the states concerned to help each other in the event of supply disruptions. the interconnection of networks can also boost competition in the region. we welcome the decision of the european commission to reallocate part of the unused eu funds to energy investments. however, it is less likely that investments in the most vulnerable member states will benefit less from the financial envelope than desired. more substantial community financial contribution and solidarity are needed to meet these ambitious commitments.
the rapporteur. − about 46% of the world's land area can be considered as natural areas untouched by human civilization, i.e. wilderness. in europe, however, it is only 1%. we must do everything we can to preserve at least this one percent of the wild for future generations. this is the aim of my report and i hope that enhanced protection of wildlife will eventually be incorporated into eu legislation. the wild appears in two ways in european culture. on the one hand, it is considered a place of fear and avoidance, where monsters and unknown dangers lurk, as many folktales suggest. on the other hand, it is an attractive and pleasant landscape that provides a temporary refuge from the stresses of urban and industrial civilization. english literature makes a distinction between conservation, the proper use of nature, and preservation, the protection of nature from all human use. these philosophical discussions are beyond the scope of my report, but i want to make it clear that i believe that sustainable use is the ideal solution. the wild can't be locked up in a bank vault like a necklace or a stockpile, we have a right to know its value. so we have to protect nature, but through human use. the area of europe is too small to contain areas off-limits to citizens. nature exploration is an encounter with pre-human civilizations, it fosters respect for nature and can be built on demanding tourism. at the same time, these areas are highly vulnerable to human-induced environmental changes such as motorisation, chemicals, climate change and the introduction of alien species. we must be careful that visitors do not endanger the wildlife, and therefore all tourism must be supervised by conservationists. we need to link the development of sustainable tourism with the protection of these areas, and the proceeds should be used entirely for the protection of wildlife. the wild provides a refuge for many species that cannot survive even the slightest change in conditions, such as brown bears, wolves, and hippos. there are many more species in europe waiting to be discovered and described. most of these live in the soil or in decaying trees and are extremely sensitive to change. these pristine areas are ideal for studying natural changes in nature, evolution. the wildlife is generally part of the natura 2000 network, but requires even more stringent protection. my report therefore calls on the european commission to work with the member states to map the remaining wilderness areas in europe and develop a strategy to enhance their protection. the natural values of the unaffected areas, the characteristics of the habitats, should be identified and further protection should be ensured. i was advised by the experts not to think about new legislation but to introduce more precise and stricter rules for the protection of wilderness areas within the framework of natura 2000. as natura 2000 funding is already controversial and a source of much legitimate criticism, we will have to address legislation on it in the next parliamentary term, but at the latest in the new budget. this could be a good opportunity to define the legal status of wildlife and increase its protection. part of my country, the hanging rock cave, is considered wild. part of this territory extends into neighbouring slovakia. i would be very pleased if the hungarian and slovak nature conservationists could work together to create a so-called pan park, as the pan park network has developed a successful system for protecting wildlife throughout europe.
in writing. the member states of the european union should support demographic change by integrating their actions into the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and by pursuing a policy of equality between men and women. the balance of european societies is based on a complex intergenerational solidarity: young people are staying longer in their parents' homes, while parents are increasingly taking care of their elderly relatives. the burden of this is primarily on the young and middle-aged generation and especially on women. equality between women and men, i.e. equality of opportunity in a broader sense, therefore appears to be a fundamental prerequisite for the creation of new forms of solidarity between generations. the issue of equality between men and women in respect of family responsibilities and reconciliation of family life and work is clearly very important for european families to gain new momentum. it is also critical to ensure that there is an adequate quality and quantity of childcare for those who wish to work in addition to having children. the party of european socialists is doing its utmost to achieve the so-called barcelona objectives and is disappointed to note that this ambition seems to be missing from the programme of the czech presidency.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. officer, please! my fellow members of the house of representatives! the subject of this debate in the house of lords rightly disturbs all people of good will. we condemn the phenomenon, then we believe that similar trauma can only happen to another child. yet, all of our children are at risk, victims of child sexual exploitation and child pornography. we must therefore fight by all means to prevent these acts. the european union is committed to the fight against corruption and organised crime, and to the implementation of the penalties laid down in national legal systems and to the reflection of this struggle in everyday practice. member states should do everything possible to reduce demand completely. particular attention should be paid to the ongoing challenges of new online technologies webcams, mobile phones, especially internet use in this area. one way to do this is to introduce blocking techniques and to raise awareness of the dangers in families, in children. in any case, it should be emphasised that these are serious crimes, the detection of which is essential for the smooth exchange of criminal data between member states, and that they should be recorded in a single register of offenders. i consider it very important and essential that the member states ratify the international instruments in existence and that they actually implement what they say. we need to make child safety a central issue in all eu member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. thank you very much.
thank you very much. my fellow members of parliament! mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. worldwide, 40 million children under the age of 12 are victims of some form of violence. the continuous development of new technologies, in particular the internet, and the new online methods of pedophiles, make it essential to increase the level of protection of children. according to eurobarometer data, 74% of minors use the internet on a daily basis, which exposes many to violent or pornographic content. in order to ensure effective protection, i would like to propose the introduction of free family information e-books in europe. this is already common practice for some european internet service providers, and i think that others can be partners in this. the packages cover four basic security topics security and communication, entertainment, downloading, and virtual bullying , providing playful help for families to use the internet safely. i also recommend that the packages include a free child-friendly browser program that acts as a web filter to keep children away from unwanted content on the world wide web. we need to keep our children safe, not just on the internet, but in our public and private institutions. it is therefore essential that all those who have regular contact with children in the course of their work are obliged to report all situations where sexual abuse has occurred. thank you, sir.
rapporteur. − mr president, as we did not have a plenary debate on this item and there was no possibility to table amendments following the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, you either have to trust your rapporteur – myself – or reject the whole resolution. in my view it is not a good system, but that is the current tool. many aspects of the natura 2000 directives should anyhow be reopened in the near future and hopefully the legislative act will cover the wilderness areas as well, giving full opportunity for the next assembly to go further on this beautiful topic. i hope that my resolution will become a basis for further legislative actions providing the possibility for the members to improve it in the future.
author. - mr president, i have to go. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the continent of europe is home to more than 300 different national and ethnic minorities and linguistic communities. almost 15% of the citizens of the eu27 belong to a historic national minority or immigrant community. while the european union aims to preserve cultural diversity, minority languages and ethnic groups are threatened with extinction and assimilation. growing immigrant communities are facing integration crises, if you think of the french suburbs, the paris riots, the london terror attacks, or the ethnic tensions in the netherlands. is the european union credible when it criticises human rights and minority rights violations in third countries? are eu decision-makers addressing adequately the problems of the national and ethnic minorities in the western balkans now awaiting admission? what if some member states are unable to do so at home, and even practice the opposite? those who are unwilling or unable to face these questions, those who bury their heads in the sand, are playing with the future of europe. today's debate was preceded by some voices of concern that this issue is too sensitive. yes, this is a very sensitive issue. what would the union be if we only discussed matters that do not harm interests? you can't sweep problems under the carpet. the citizens of europe expect us to give them meaningful answers. the european union must guarantee the rights of indigenous peoples, historical minorities, roma, millions of minority peoples without a state, nations such as catalans, basques, scots, bretons, alsatians, corsicans, welsh, hungarian national communities in romania, slovakia and serbia and other ethnic groups at local, regional, national and eu levels. subsidiarity and self-government, power-sharing and co-decision are the union's core values. it is very important that forms of co-decision, self-governance and 'self-governance' autonomy be established, based on agreement between the majority and the minority, with full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the member states. the state must promote the fullest possible integration of persons belonging to immigrant minorities, and the language and customs of immigrant minorities in the state concerned must be respected to the maximum. if the european parliament is to become a true power centre, it must face up to these delicate issues.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow members of the house of representatives! in the european union and other european countries, more than 45 million people belong to 57 different minorities. today, when the spectre of racism is haunting europe, when the fearful rise of chauvinism by the national majority is being witnessed throughout eastern and central europe, minority politics can no longer be swept under the carpet. as we heard from the commissioner, the eu has not yet developed legislation for all member states to protect the identity of national minorities. minority issues are a matter for member states, so communities usually have to cope with what they find in their own governments. the total number of citizens belonging to different national minority communities in the central and eastern european member states is substantially higher than in western europe, and their problems are more complex. in order to make them, everyone, not only the nationalities, but also the nationalities which are practically a minority within the union, feel truly at home in europe, european legislation must create a legal framework for the protection of minorities through comprehensive legal standards. a political system must be established which does not seek exclusivity but which shares powers. if this model is adopted across the eu, national communities will be increasingly valued and given a new chance to preserve their language and culture. the ratification of the lisbon treaty is key to this, two articles of which, thanks to the work of the hungarian government, also include the rights of persons belonging to minorities. its adoption would be a major step forward in the history of the european union. the current economic crisis is not in the interests of minorities, it is poisoning conflicts, it is giving way to far-right demagogy, and europe cannot afford to ignore the voice of minorities, especially now; it cannot leave them alone in the crisis.
while the interests of minorities in society, protected by any other prohibition of discrimination, are strongly defended, the protection of european law is shameful for traditional national minorities, and the political will is even more shameful. and the existence of these communities in the union is not a political issue, it's a matter of fact, and there are millions of non-immigrants in the union. they live here in the member states of europe, never having set foot on the land of their ancestors, until the events of the 20th century have pushed the borders of their countries away, leaving them with unresolved dilemmas. how do they preserve their identity, their community, how do they provide a 21st century future for their children? we must finally say that the problems of these communities cannot be solved by mere universal human rights or anti-discrimination provisions. these communities are entitled to all the rights that the union, with a similar population, considers to be right for the majority. that is why we need eu regulation, that is why we need eu help. these communities rightly believe, for example, that the autonomy that has brought prosperity and development to the minorities of south tyrol in italy would also bring a desirable solution for them. indeed, forms of autonomy, including territorial autonomy, can offer a positive and sustainable future for these communities, which should not be mystified but discussed, because if a positive solution in one member state is possible without compromising the territorial integrity of the state, it can also be found in another member state. the legitimate demands of these minorities, based on the eu's fundamental principles and drawing on eu practice, must not be taboo in the union in the 21st century!
mr. president, i have to go. one in ten european citizens belongs to a national minority. many of them feel that they are stepchildren of their own country. they expect the european union to guarantee their rights and improve their situation. in the field of human rights, the union's largest debt is related to the protection of minorities. although there are legal bases for effective minority protection, political will to enforce them is often insufficient. the adoption of the lisbon treaty may improve the situation, but it is not a miracle drug in itself. the effective functioning of the existing institutions is needed, in particular the strengthening of the minority profile of the fundamental rights agency. minorities would see it as a positive sign if a commissioner in the new commission dealt specifically and exclusively with minority issues. this would make it clear that they too are full citizens of a europe that is coming together. because europe cannot have stepchildren, because in some ways we are all minorities.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. i welcome with appreciation and gratitude the inclusion of the protection of traditional national and ethnic minorities and of european immigrants on the agenda. i find it painful that, in the absence of sufficient support for the political groups, our debate today will end without a decision and that there will still be no possibility of adopting the eu framework convention for the protection of minorities. in the countries of the former soviet communist camp, the principle of noninterference prevailed. i find it unacceptable that the union should similarly make it the responsibility of individual member states to resolve the situation of their minorities. i consider the statements made by president traian basescu in budapest, rejecting the legitimate demands of the transylvanian hungarians for collective rights and autonomy, to be a dictatorial position reminiscent of the national communist times. the european union is also the common home of national, ethnic and religious minorities and cannot therefore continue to delay their institutional and legal protection.
thank you very much, mr. president. my dear officer. my fellow officers. first of all, i would like to welcome the tabajdi csaba initiative, which seeks to improve the situation of minorities in the european union. although there are excellent examples of the european union's view of national minorities as a value and an opportunity, such as in south tyrol or the island of åland, unfortunately in eastern europe we can also find opposite views, sometimes even in the presentation of leading statesmen. it is therefore important and urgent that we oppose declarations which would forever and definitively exclude the autonomy demands of national minorities by invoking the requirements of the european union. we must therefore state clearly and clearly that the exercise of minority rights at community level is a right of self-determination for national minorities and that these fundamental rights must be guaranteed by the legal system of the european union. i therefore strongly support the creation of a comprehensive european-wide framework for the protection of minorities. thank you very much.
author. - mr president, commissioner, the first question to be answered is whether the question of national minorities is a matter of exclusive national competence. i do not think so, because if human rights are not an internal matter of the member states of the european union, neither are the rights of national minorities. this obviously needs to be clarified. we bombed yugoslavia because of the violation of the rights of the kosovars, so why are we not clarifying this issue? secondly, why was the situation in the new member states better before accession and worse now? thirdly, my french colleague asked the question, there are two weights and two measures. it is true that the situation of the hungarian community in romania is better despite the problems. there are problems in romania, but the situation is better than in alsace or brittany. why are there two weights and two measures? fourthly, the question of territorial autonomy. in finland, on the island of åland, in south tyrol, in italy, territorial autonomy has stabilized the country and in spain the system of autonomy, despite some basque extremists who must be condemned, is a very good example. finally, mr president, it must be made clear that non-discrimination and equal treatment are not enough to compensate for the disadvantages of minorities. but in the end, the satisfied minorities are the stabilizing factors of the countries of europe. as mr henrik lax always says: "if there is a policy that is well-conducted, it always pays off". that is the reality and i thank you for the debate.
author. − mr president, it is sad to observe that today, almost five years after enlargement, there is little evidence of latvia having demonstrated respect for its largest minority. the recommendations of the european parliament and numerous other institutional organisations have been completely ignored. a large part of latvia’s population has been alienated from the state and its institutions. no wonder the naturalisation rate is slow. turning people into aliens and issuing them with an alien passport does not inspire in them feelings of being associated with the state. they do not participate. they do not take decisions. they do not vote, not even in those cities where they represent up to 40% of the population and where political decisions directly affect their lives. is this situation good or bad for the european union? this is a question for the commission and council. democracy cannot flourish without civil society, and there is no civil society without participation. participation begins at local community level. these people were born in the country or have spent most of their lives there, and we are talking about more than 15% of latvia’s population, or some 372 000 people. the eu must take action on their behalf. why does the commission not act on this? citizens of other eu member states residing in latvia may vote and stand in municipal and european parliament elections, but hundreds of thousands of people who were born in the country or have spent most of their lives there do not enjoy this right. i would like to ask the commission and the council what they have done in order to address this issue with the latvian authorities, and to take further action without any delay.
congratulations to drum alexandra and her co-authors! this is one of the most serious human rights problems in the european union today. i understood all the historical injuries our friends had suffered, because they were subjected to a terrible assimilation during the soviet stalinist period. i know this one very well. but there is no justification for historical revenge. i suggested to our friends that they follow the example of finland, which sweden has oppressed for centuries, and yet finland has not suppressed the swedish-speaking finns. hundreds of thousands of people cannot be expelled or assimilated, they must be given eu rights. and i am extremely saddened by the words of commissioner barrot, because instead of the union giving a clear signal that this situation is unsustainable, contrary to the union's fundamental values, mr barrot is stretching out his arms and saying that the union cannot do anything. well, that's sad to hear. we must find a historical compromise between the latvian majority and the russian minority! it's the only solution. thank you for your attention.
madam president! climate change and transport are no longer mutually exclusive, but we can only preserve the mobility we have acquired and feared, the free movement of people, goods and capital, in the future if we change and take decisive action. as a member of the interim committee on climate change, i call for a comprehensive package of measures to address the fifth key issue, transport, and to implement it simultaneously. what do you need? first, we need to transform the economic environment with a dual purpose: on the one hand, to support eco-innovation through taxes and public procurement, and on the other, to really apply the 'polluter pays' principle. eco-innovation is needed in automotive technology, related alternative fuels, intelligent transport solutions, logistics management systems. the polluter pays principle should be applied to all vehicles, emissions trading and the integration of external costs. we need to accelerate every initiative we take. it's not enough to talk about it, we have to make it happen. like what? the single european sky, the single european sky, our systems of governance. well, these things have to be done, because we can only regulate industry, we can only regulate consumption if we do our own thing. we have to focus on our cities, our other sensitive areas, and that's probably the hardest part. we need to spread a new culture of transport and make much better use of the resources we have at our disposal. we have to thank karl-heinz florenz because now we have a genuine, multifaceted road map, this report, along which we can start implementing and we can sit down at the negotiating table in copenhagen with courage and invite everyone to join us.
in writing. – tackling climate change at this moment of deep financial turmoil and decreased confidence in economic systems may seem for many a mistake in terms of priorities. going ‘green’ is costly, and the efforts necessary for the fundamental restructuring of many sectors in order to achieve ambitious targets are tremendous. nevertheless, there are many opportunities to be seized in ‘green’ investments and policies as elements favouring economic recovery and stability. the development of a low-emission economy is a genuine challenge we cannot afford not to deal with. we need ambitious but still feasible targets and we need not be afraid to walk the path of an inevitable industrial revolution. in order to secure economic recovery and better living conditions for our citizens, a complex and ambitious approach is required, fostering innovation and the development of new jobs and businesses in the framework of ‘green’ technologies. finally, sufficient financial means are of course necessary to make the required investments in ‘green’ innovation and, obviously, these costs cannot simply be made at the expense of other vital community policies which cannot bear the burden of climate change without additional financial resources.
in writing. one of the most serious long-term consequences of climate change is the depletion of freshwater resources, an increasing lack of healthy drinking water. it is no exaggeration to say that the number one strategic asset of the 21st century will be water. european environmental policy must therefore be more determined than ever to protect water bodies, prevent water and soil pollution and manage natural and artificial aquatic habitats. the alternation of floods and droughts, extreme weather, requires better management of rainwater, no waste water, just poorly treated water! the european union must allocate substantial amounts in the next parliamentary term and in the new budget to flood prevention, watershed protection, urban freshwater enhancement and water purification programmes. hungary has excellent water resources, and hungarian water engineers have been doing great work for almost two hundred years. i am therefore confident that our country will play an active and constructive role in the single european water policy.
in writing. i congratulate mr florenz on his report, which is an excellent preparation for the copenhagen negotiations at the end of the year. i think it's very important to recognize that the economic and financial crisis has the same root cause as our climate crisis. so the way out of a crisis is the same. to mitigate and stop the consequences of crises, we need a comprehensive innovation and paradigm shift in all areas of life. i agree with commissioner dimas that the cost of this must be met by carbon trading, private investment and public incentives. everyone is looking for breakout points, how to boost employment, how to jump-start the engine of the global economy, how to stop climate change. the concept of the green new deal was formulated by un secretary-general ban ki-moon. the key is to make investments in green technologies part of the global economic incentives. the new economic logic, based on innovations in environmental technology and supported by international capital markets, is also the basis of the agenda of the new us president barack obama. green and future industrial technological innovations would increase public and economic efficiency, strengthen the interest of economic operators, increase the price and cost sensitivity of consumers to the products and services offered.
in writing. green investment should be given a prominent role in the public stimulus packages to counter the negative effects of the global economic crisis. investments that aim to make more efficient use of renewable energy sources, reduce energy consumption and reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases bring significant social benefits in addition to economic benefits. it is in hungary's interest that these efforts be coordinated and strengthened by the european member states. environmental objectives should also take into account the economic and social performance of eu member states. we are only free to set ourselves targets that we can meet, taking into account the effects of the economic crisis. the goals can only be achieved through social cohesion, which requires more than government action, but also a gradual change in social attitudes. the concrete action proposals in the florence report, such as support for zero-energy 'passive houses', a european fund for research into renewable sources, the interconnection of energy networks at european level and the provision of information to eu citizens, especially children, all contribute to this change in social attitudes. we must also strive to maintain europe's technological advantage in environmental developments in the 21st century and to transform it into an economic and social advantage. hungary's excellent agricultural potential could provide significant opportunities for energy production from biomass or for the use of plant and animal by-products as waste-biogas unsuitable for other uses.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i speak on behalf of the socialist group. the situation in kosovo is improving. we must be grateful to the czech presidency and the commission for their good cooperation. i fully agree with mrs pack that the eulex mission is a very great challenge for european security and defence policy, one of the greatest challenges in the entire history of the european union as a community of law. it is good that there is already a legal basis for the statement by the president of the security council, which the serbian government has welcomed. there was a tacit agreement on the part of china and russia, who had previously rejected any settlement of the conflict. it is essential that eulex cooperates well with the parties concerned in kosovo. we must not repeat the mistakes of unmik, which has wasted a lot of money and alienated the people of kosovo. mrs doris pack also raised this issue. it is very important to clarify the division of powers between the government and parliament of kosovo on the one hand and eulex on the other. we cannot take responsibility for the development of kosovo. the eulex presence in northern kosovo is very important in order to avoid the partition of that territory. finally, the full implementation of the constitutional provisions in accordance with the ahtisaari plan is a key issue for minorities.
in writing. how should europe respond to the growing regional organisation of emerging powers and energy-rich member states on its eastern borders, the shanghai cooperation organisation? the ees is a neighbour of the european union through russia and it is therefore essential to deal with this body in a meaningful way. analysis of the members and observers of the oecd leads to the conclusion that these countries hold a significant share of the world's oil and gas reserves. consequently, the question of a renewed strategy for russia and central asia, coupled with a country-specific political risk analysis, is unavoidable. it should be noted that the eu's current vulnerability and high energy dependence, as demonstrated by the russia-ukraine gas dispute, undermines the development of a credible, effective and coherent common foreign and security policy. additionally, countries respond differently to the crisis, driven by their historical experience and economic interests. today, more than ever, the eu needs a unified policy, a coordination of different national interests and positions. it is essential that the union improves the effectiveness and consistency of its action on the global stage, to which the ratification of the treaty of lisbon and the foreign policy instruments provided for in the treaty can make a major contribution. the increasingly urgent need for a more efficient and rapid eu operation, the events that require ever faster intellectual responses, require a review of the organisational and decision-making mechanisms for the management of foreign policy and the provision of appropriate structural responses.
after the autumn elections in romania and the formation of the government, as in slovakia and romania, anti-hungarian incitement is coming back in force in political life. the demonstration of february 9 in st. george, organized by the hungarian churches, protested precisely against this phenomenon. in the petition formulated on the occasion of the demonstration, thousands of local szekler protested against the change of ethnic proportions in the land of the szeklers, by the targeted populating of the region with groups of romanians from other areas. president traian basescu has absurdly accused the hungarian sects of ethnic cleansing. at the same time, during the elections for the mayor of cluj, the leaflets of the democrats incited against the hungarian candidates, using the same slander. after decades of discrimination and disenfranchisement, who's blaming who? i would like to draw parliament's attention to the fact that in romania, by subtle methods, the homogenization, the romanization of transylvania is still being carried out by the method of artificially changing the ethnic proportions.
mr. president, i have to go. i congratulate the creators of the european parliament's official website, the ep's press service, for respecting multilingualism and for including the names of the municipalities in the national language on the map of the countries. this means that eu citizens can find out about the other 26 countries in their mother tongue. on the page about germany in czech, see köln kolín, french cologne. the slovak language pages about hungary have the names of the cities in slovak, and that's correct. it should be equally natural for hungarians in slovakia to call their hometown in their native language hungarian. i therefore welcome the fact that the slovak parliament voted in favour of the law on public education, which allows the geographical names of localities to be used in minority language textbooks, and if the law is implemented, the former status quo can be restored and hungarians can again use the names of settlements in hungarian.
in writing. – first of all, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs patrizia toia, for the quality of the report she presents today. as a matter of fact, it is important to provide some clarity in defining the concept of social economy and ensuring its legal status through the wide range of national experiences. social economy indeed requires visibility – through better knowledge of eu-wide data – for better achieving the objectives of solidarity, employment, entrepreneurship, growth, competitiveness social cohesion and social dialogue in the union as a whole. social economy is increasingly becoming an important actor at local and regional levels and has now more than ever – due to the serious impacts of the financial crisis – a major role to play in european social and economic development. the union needs to concentrate its efforts in supporting the social and economic dynamics to overcome the mere separation of public and private sectors if we really want to find new and innovative solutions to provide our citizen with sustainable jobs and a better living environment with quality services of general interest in an inclusive society.
in writing. for months we have been trying to mobilise all the institutions and instruments of the union to mitigate the effects of the growing crisis. it is fortunate, and unfortunate, that the report by patrizia toia has now been placed on the agenda of the plenary, as initiatives promoting solidarity and social and territorial cohesion are particularly important at this time. the social economy is a conglomeration of organisational forms whose aim is not profit but solidarity and economic community of interest. these forms cannot be replaced by any market-oriented organisation, as they provide opportunities to recruit those who are excluded from society, offer decent work and, in their various forms, from self-employment to social cooperatives, are able to reuse the results of the work done for the benefit of the community. we have written and spoken a lot about the social economy, but without a european statistical base it will not be visible and it will not be part of our daily lives. if society doesn't know him, he can't help by showing solidarity. the organisations involved are too small to be recognised at macroeconomic level. the patrizia toia report can help to ensure that money and production in the social economy do not appear to policy-makers and market participants as suspicious entities that seek to escape compliance with the conditions of competition. the report here and now may be able to make the social economy more effective in responding to job losses and loss of livelihoods with relatively little investment in crisis management.
the rapporteur. - thank you for the opportunity, mr president, mr commissioner. the january gas crisis had one positive consequence, however. in all member states, the energy policy dialogue has been intensified. here in the european parliament, too, there has been a lot of talk about alternative transport routes, about expanding storage capacity, or about the future role of nuclear energy. but the issue of energy efficiency has been undeservedly neglected. that is why i am pleased that the report on the national energy efficiency action plans has given us the opportunity to discuss this issue in recent weeks. the importance of energy efficiency lies in the fact that it can achieve spectacular results faster than any other means. as recently pointed out by commissioner piebalgs, the eu's regulation of the state of readiness of technical equipment alone could save the equivalent of hungary's annual energy consumption. we cannot stress enough that energy efficiency can be the cure for all our energy policy problems. it will help to reduce europe's energy dependence on third countries. energy efficiency can also have a positive impact on european competitiveness and reduce environmental burdens. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. of course, there is a great deal of variation between the capacities and possibilities of the individual member states and the measures they take. we therefore consider it a good decision that the 2006 regulation requires all member states to summarise their planned energy efficiency measures in national action plans. in the report before us, we have tried to draw general conclusions about the action plans mentioned. we also wanted to identify what further steps were needed in eu legislation. let me now highlight some of the more important elements of the report. first, the european commission must take stronger action against the delay in drawing up national action plans. at the same time, it is necessary to examine closely whether the plans contained in each document correspond to the practical actions of the member states. the fundamental flaw of many action plans is that they are not in keeping with the policies of the government in question. secondly, financial resources for energy efficiency should be strengthened, both at union and member state level. as a consequence of the economic crisis, few european citizens can now afford to start investing in energy efficiency, and it is therefore necessary to expand existing energy efficiency support schemes as soon as possible. in this context, energy efficiency needs to be given a much greater prominence in the next seven-year community budget and tax incentives can also provide substantial progress. third, the european union should continue to legislate on energy efficiency. i believe that the european commission's proposals have set a good example in this area. for example, tightening regulations on the energy efficiency of buildings can result in significant savings. fourth, member state governments should take a leading role in developing energy efficiency. this should be reflected in extensive information campaigns, as consumers will only invest in energy efficiency if they are aware of the benefits they can derive from it. and i'll close with one last thought. i believe that the issue of energy efficiency should not be treated as a secondary issue in times of economic crisis. not only because energy efficiency investments can create hundreds of thousands of new jobs in europe. and in a year of mass layoffs, i think that's not a secondary consideration.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate my colleague patrizia toia on her report on the social economy, which shows that social economy enterprises play a key role in reintegrating into the labour market and can make a significant contribution to development and social cohesion through their close links with local communities. the social economy actors are also able to combine economic production processes with activities to increase social welfare and promote self-organisation in communities. the effective functioning of the social economy, or third sector, is thus crucial for the employment of disadvantaged and excluded groups, such as the roma, who are facing unacceptable levels of unemployment across europe. however, to operate effectively, it is necessary to establish the appropriate legal framework, i.e. to give legal recognition to the operators of the sector, whether they are foundations, cooperatives or other associations. it is also important to facilitate access to credit and tax incentives and incentives for such organisations and it is worth considering the introduction of a single union funding for the enterprises most useful for social cohesion.
today, perhaps also because of the crisis, the public opinion of the countries that have joined in the last five years is increasingly sensitive to any move that could call into question or invalidate the full legitimacy and the uniform standards of membership within the union. now, in connection with my constituency, we have heard on swedish television and then on the internet allegations that in the municipality of harkakötöny, the lianas are being torn in a cruel way, even though there has been no liana farming in the given area for years. i'm glad that this case has been charged with libel. similar slanders have recently appeared regarding fattening against my country's farmers, calling for a boycott of purchases against processors, which already means economic damage. interestingly, no such thing was done against the old member states. these are economically motivated actions, but the specific political form of the termination is also the declaration of ethnically based attacks against roma in hungary as a fait accompli, although in most cases this could not be proven so far. i ask the commission to monitor these incitement activities closely and, above all, not to spread them, as this could seriously damage the prestige of the union in my country before the elections.
the rapporteur. − the european parliament expects the 2010 budget proposal to help member states and citizens to overcome the current crisis. that's our biggest concern right now. in other words, reduce the anxieties of european citizens and restore their faith in having jobs and a livelihood, in peace and security. it is the european citizens whose money we spend, for whom we are responsible. europeans are not sure that their money is safe in the banks because of the financial crisis, they don't know if they'll have jobs tomorrow. but they also have other problems and concerns, like how long the heating in their apartment lasts, or whether there are harmful chemicals in their food, pathogens, and i could list all the problems. that is why we want a budget that restores citizens' trust, not just in financial institutions, but in each other, in a european-wide partnership. we know that 1% of gni cannot solve all problems, but does it matter if small and medium-sized enterprises are encouraged and supported? is a coordinated common energy policy taking shape? are we doing everything we can to combat climate change and to promote renewable energy? will it be more effective in controlling our common borders? will cohesion policy be more effective, catch-up faster, food more secure? the parliament sees that the money is not enough for the objectives, but it also sees that the member states are not making full use of the budgetary frameworks currently in place. we therefore expect the european commission to be resolute in removing bureaucratic obstacles, to concentrate spending on areas where it is used effectively and to withdraw aid from areas where it is regularly used to create surpluses. is parliament also prepared to cooperate in checking whether the programmes launched are really effective and achieve the objectives for which they were set up? we can't just be satisfied that the spending is legal. we want assurances that they're appropriate. we ask for value, for results in exchange for money from european citizens, we expect member states to implement programmes, to be more efficient and faster. we ask the european commission to take our requests seriously. the european parliament is the only institution of the union that is directly influenced by its citizens. we are the closest to them, and we have now summarized their views in the report that has been tabled. we're now more than a month away from the preliminary budget. there is therefore time to consider and incorporate parliament's opinion into the plans. i would also very much like the council and parliament not to amend the commission's proposal in a way that would be destructive to each other, as is the custom, but rather for the three institutions to work together to overcome the crisis. my fellow members of the house of representatives! i would like to conclude by thanking all those who contributed to this report, the secretariat of the committee on budgets, the members of the committee, the experts of the group of the party, the authors of the amendments. i ask that you discuss the ideas and then vote to support them. we must give hope and security to the citizens of europe.
madam president, you must be madam president. i welcome the fact that the report clearly takes a position in favour of community support for the nabucco project. the russian-ukrainian gas crisis has highlighted europe's vulnerability to gas supply. the nabucco project is the only realistic, feasible plan that can alleviate europe's unilateral dependence on russian gas supplies. you may be tired of me calling attention to the inadequate funding of the foreign affairs chapter every year in the budget debate. the union can only respond in time to new challenges if its budget is sufficiently flexible and allows for transfers within and between chapters, otherwise we will continue to support the most important objectives by budgetary tricks and opaque budgetary manipulations. i call on the commission to resolve the serious funding problems in the external relations chapter and to provide more flexibility for the budget in the context of a genuine mid-term review.
the rapporteur. − i have welcomed the comments and feel that most of the criticisms that have been voiced and the amendments tabled have a lot in common. i mean, it's more of a question of word use than actual contradictions. there's a serious issue, support for the nabucco issue. i want to make it clear that we are not looking to support companies, and we are not talking about billion-dollar projects, but we are looking to the european commission to take steps to make europe energy independent, and the nabucco project is one of the symbols of this. mr. president, allow me to draw your attention to one more point. this budget is beyond itself. the citizens of europe no longer feel the greatness of the union that the founding fathers felt, namely to make peace so that there is no possibility of starting war. this is not about that. we don't have to expect war, but there are attacks like this one. if we can solve it, if we can show ourselves and the citizens of europe that the union can tackle these problems together, together, then the union will send a clear message to its citizens that it makes sense to sacrifice, it makes sense to cooperate. we need the union. i expect a decline in euroscepticism from a successful 2010 budget, and i am asking for support for this now and later in the autumn. thank you for your kind attention.
in writing. as rapporteur for the 2010 eu budget on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to express my satisfaction with the material before us. in particular, i welcome the commission's intention to contribute to economic and social reconstruction, to strengthening energy efficiency and to combating climate change. i fully agree that the union needs to take a number of ambitious financial and budgetary decisions that will enable the union to play a role, in particular, in the areas of economic growth and job creation. the environmental new deal, the solution to the current economic crisis by increasing investment in green technology, is a great opportunity to do that. the problems with gas supply at the beginning of the year again highlighted the lack of alternative energy sources, energy supply routes, energy storage capacity and energy supply connections between member states. it is therefore important that the improvement of the security of energy supply and transport is appropriately reflected in the eu budget, so that we invest significant amounts in these areas. as the report very well shows, climate change and environmental protection and energy security are closely interlinked. at the same time, climate change mitigation measures are still not adequately reflected in the eu budget. i therefore see parliament's task now as being to put pressure on the commission in this area and to increase these resources.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i have to ask you to stop. we are coming to the end of a long process, a long and successful process, which has succeeded in lifting small and medium-sized enterprises from the periphery to the centre. it is a long process until we have reached the point where this internal market is unified but not homogeneous. it is a long journey, and we have now reached the point where 23 million smes are operating under the same administrative burdens and rules as the 41,000 large european companies, but they are far from being able to enter the market on the same terms. we believe that the commission under mr verhaugen has come a long way in the last five years, and we welcome the change in philosophy in the european union to remove the red tape from smes at both national and eu level. one way is to increase the turnover of smes, to get as many of them as possible to enter the european single market, since only 8% of companies currently do so and only 15% of their turnover is generated here. their turnover can be increased if they can participate more in r & d and innovation programmes and projects. the market functioning of small businesses will be helped by making it much easier for them to access funds and finance than it is today. their turnover can be increased by implementing the community patent, preventing cheap counterfeits from crowding out the intellectual products created by small businesses. i believe that the most critical challenge for the success of the lisbon strategy as a whole is how to get smes out of their home member states and into the eu's internal market. in the current economic situation, however, it is necessary to point out, in addition to what has been said so far, that there is a problem with the main source of financing for smes. that's still the loans. however, the increasing risk sensitivity of financial institutions is making it increasingly difficult for companies to access them. the banks are holding back on lending during this round, citing the uncertainty of the economic situation. small and medium-sized business leaders complain that thousands of businesses and tens of thousands of jobs could be at risk. we have a fundamental interest in the money that helps to boost the liquidity of the system to flow into the economy and not to stay in the vaults of the banks. one of the most important steps is for banks to start stimulating the economy and smes as soon as possible. the other challenge is to create european solidarity. only this can provide more effective protection than the nation state for small and medium-sized enterprises that have been put in a difficult situation by the crisis. i would also like to say that the situation of small businesses and the way in which they are managed is also a matter of european solidarity. it shows that europe is able to take risks with non-euro area member states. measures that are primarily aimed at the stability of the euro area can easily create a financial vacuum and have already done so in the non-euro area. in the present situation, i must therefore ask european decision-makers and representatives of the banking sector not to allow a two-speed europe to emerge, because the disintegration of a region where small and medium-sized enterprises are otherwise dominant - accounting for more than 90% of businesses - would have disastrous economic consequences. i ask the commission and my colleagues to support me in this. i thank my co-rapporteur, nicole fontaine, and the other shadow rapporteurs for their work, and i congratulate commissioner verhaugen once again on the journey he has made so far.
on the report on smes, i would first like to congratulate the commission and in particular the rapporteur, mrs herczog, on a great job. however, i regret that this report was not prepared in accordance with point 39 of the rules of procedure, asking the commission for specific legislative proposals. i also think it is important to give member states a specific task to report on progress in their annual lisbon reports. without it, most of the good suggestions here are just words on paper. i also agree with mr herczog-edit that the policy implications are that the new member states, and in particular those outside the euro area, will receive preferential treatment throughout the process, since they are in a particularly difficult situation, in addition to the general disadvantage of small and medium-sized enterprises, and can play a very important role in overcoming the crisis. just a few internal market elements: the problem is that only 8% of smes are engaged in cross-border activities, and this needs to be increased. this requires support for such activities, in particular through mentoring actions. on the one hand, by reducing administration, and on the other hand, by helping with vat-related activities, such as the one-stop shop or the reduced vat key. it is also necessary to promote a stronger sme orientation of public procurement at community level, for example by opening them up more frequently as main contractors or by opening up the market to them specifically. the smi circle, which i lead, would like to see more emphasis on the implementation of a deep guarantee and credit system at eu level. i hope that the new eib opportunity will live up to the expectations that have been placed on it. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the payment guidelines and the payment of the debt, and coordinated action at member state level will be needed to ensure that payment guidelines are implemented swiftly. overall, strengthening a mentoring system in the member states is important to address both market research and administrative challenges, and union assistance to strengthen this should be urgent.
rapporteur. − madam president, it is a great pity that all of my voters are not here in the room, because it was wonderful to listen to so many members from so many countries and so many parties welcoming my report on the small business act. however, i have to say that my report would not have been possible without the commission, namely mr verheugen and his small business team, mrs le bail and others. i would also not have been able to do it without the small business intergroup. most of my colleagues agreed with everything in the report, as can be seen from the fact that not too many amendments were introduced. some colleagues asked why it is not legally binding. it is not legally binding by nature for many reasons. however, tomorrow we will ask for a roll-call vote on many paragraphs in order to prove the parliament's common action and the council's common requirement to do this. finally, i would like to say that exactly 200 years ago darwin published his book on the origin of species. he said that the survivor is not the strongest, but the one most able to adapt. i think what we have done with the small business act is to create a place for member states to adapt and manoeuvre, and for small businesses within the member states to adapt faster, survive this crisis and face the next challenges. thank you very much for your support.
the rapporteur. - thank you, madam president, and congratulations. after months of work, i have presented to parliament a report on the labour market opportunities and social situation of roma, which expresses our deep concern for the fate of an ethnic minority with a population of a member state in the future of europe. the passing months, unfortunately, have not diminished but rather increased the urge to act. the global financial crisis has swept across europe, and the accompanying economic upheaval is again hitting the most vulnerable groups in society, especially the roma. and the growing and legitimate existential anxiety of the majority society is a fertile ground for the hatred of the minority, for stigmatizing, excluding behavior, for scapegoating. it is fortunate and symbolic that the adoption of the roma report can take place in the same week as the preparations for the next council meeting in parliament, seeking to find ways of reducing the risks to livelihoods and human trauma, in line with the principle of solidarity that binds europe together, in addition to the means of recovery. in the last decades, we have learned that there is no dynamic economic development that automatically opens up mobility paths for those at the bottom of the social ladder through the redistribution systems that have been introduced, and that, in fact, without a policy of support based on equality of opportunity, the gaps between the margins of society can become even wider in the developing periods. our job now is to mobilize the resources for crisis management and economic growth so that the ten million roma are not victims of the crisis, but participants in the recovery. the committee on employment and social affairs, which adopted the position by a large majority, considers the living conditions of a significant proportion of roma in the developing world to be unacceptable. to this day, tens of thousands of roma children are growing up in segregated schools, unable to gain competitive knowledge, and carrying the scars of exclusion and stigma for a lifetime. millions live in ghettos, rivers, canals, often without electricity, with life expectancies 10 to 20 years shorter than the average. they have no qualifications, they work for a living, their way of life is shaped by the discrimination they face every day. and most dramatically, this situation reinforces verbal exclusion, hate speech, ethnically-based conflict resolution, because who has not heard that if you are a gypsy, you do not want to change your life and steal before you work? the quality of life in developing countries is the root that feeds the tendency to exclude and the tree of hate that breeds murderous actions. the only way to eradicate violence is to cut it off at its roots. it is not just the countries of eastern and central europe that are interested in peace, but all citizens of europe. let us not forget that it is in the vital interest of an ageing europe that its citizens are not the unfortunate ones who need the help of society, but well-educated, well-employed citizens who pay taxes, contributions and insurance. that's what the proposed motion is about. it is essential for the implementation of the tasks to be carried out that the various institutions of the european union work on the elaboration and systematic implementation of a comprehensive roma policy. it is a matter of common european will to put the well-intentioned, often costly, but in the absence of a common will, fruitless efforts of the member states on a new course. i would like to thank all my colleagues who have made this report more complete by their substantive proposals. the willingness to cooperate may help you to understand that the union has no choice but to be forced to immediately integrate a potential workforce of this size, with a century of experience in adaptation. thank you for your patience.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr kosane, on his report which provides a comprehensive analysis of the socioeconomic situation of roma communities. the report makes a number of forward-looking proposals, such as calling on the commission to assess the impact of the instruments used on roma in its policies and recommending the introduction of a uniform set of requirements for development programmes. the unfounded plans and sparse projects, mostly financed by the eu, of the member states have not produced real results. a joint action plan is needed, based on solid legal foundations, which can ensure the implementation of member states' commitments, including through sanctions. roma communities should be involved from the lowest level to the international consultative bodies in the process, in the planning, implementation and monitoring phases, and clear indicators and deadlines should be established to monitor the effective use of the invested financial instruments. poverty and social exclusion are geographically concentrated, and research accurately maps europe's poverty. most roma live in such 'death-sentence' neighbourhoods, and maintaining the current standard of living costs a lot of money, and in the long run can cripple budgets and threaten to break down social cohesion. the community strategy should therefore allow for immediate firefighting-like intervention in these areas through specific programmes from development funds allocated at union level, which in their complexity are able to address the problems simultaneously, and through the provision of interoperability between funds and even the introduction of region-specific forms of support.
in writing. events in recent years have shown that it is time to take a serious look at the economic, cultural and health situation of roma in the european union. the breakdown is already tragic in some regions and, in the current economic crisis, threatens to cause a social explosion. i therefore particularly welcome the report by magda kovacs of kosane, which seeks to address this serious social problem. i also welcome the objectives set out in the report, but it is not enough to carry out a situation study, information campaigns and strengthen ngos. concrete and decisive action is needed in the areas of education and job creation. without the right financial means behind it, the initiative will remain a mere empty word. the eu needs a roma strategy, but above all it needs to have objectives that transcend the economic, education and health policies of the member states, because only in this way can a decent life be guaranteed for the ten million roma in europe and their integration be accelerated. the strategy to improve the situation of europe's roma requires a long-term action programme, and i hope that there will be those who will continue the work started in the report, possibly over several parliamentary terms.
rapporteur. – mr president, for the sake of conciliation i should like to table an oral amendment, which has been distributed, to paragraph 13. the text should read: ‘[…] as well as internal security, particularly the fight against terrorism; immigration, demographic challenges […]’, instead of the old version ‘[…] as well as internal security, meaning particularly immigration, the fight against terrorism, demographic challenges […]’. i would ask parliament to support this oral amendment.
rapporteur. − mr president, i have no objection to this oral amendment by mr swoboda, which refers to the original text. in any case, i was told by the tabling office that this amendment is valid only for the amended one. if that is not so, i am in favour of this oral amendment being part of the original. therefore, those who are following my advice will vote against the first part in this fifth vote and then we shall have an extra vote, which is not on the voting list, on this oral amendment, which i support.
mr president, we were not voting on mr swoboda’s oral proposal, so if parliament wishes to support his oral amendment, we should vote that this is still valid for the original text. otherwise we will have had four votes and rejected it, which requires five votes.
mr president, no: in the voting list without the oral amendment we were voting on the first part of the pse group amendment and that was rejected. in addition to the original pse group amendment, mr swoboda tabled putting the word ‘sources’. i am neither against nor for. i am not complaining if the pse group is not complaining. i just want to clarify that according to my knowledge the word ‘sources’ is not in the text.
mr president, so we should have had a vote on whether we wanted it or not.
mr president, that will be very simple. i suggest replacing ‘fears’ in the original text with the word ‘concerns’.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, the financial crisis has become an economic crisis and we are now facing a recession in europe, which is also affecting ordinary citizens: prices have been going up, unemployment is growing, investment is slowing down, credit is less available and thus the economy is slowing down. it is a trompe l’oeil figure, which shows that, actually, men are hit first – and most – by unemployment due to the male domination in industry, such as the car industry. but women will be hit in the second wave of the redundancies, and we will suffer in the long term. women with temporary and outsourcing contracts often fill posts in sectors where the need is great during good economic times but where the position is often very fragile during an economic downturn. this flexibility works in favour of the labour market but not for women who want and need social security, employment guarantees and reconciliation of private and professional life. it is even more worrying when conservative governments, such as the current czech presidency, talk about revising the barcelona targets and going back to home childcare. the barcelona targets, as pse women demonstrated by our campaign in 2007, are beneficial for the whole of society and all children. it helps to give them an equal start in life and to eradicate poverty. as jacques delors says: ‘in every child there is a treasure, and we have to give them the chance to explore and develop this treasure’. if i might add: every child needs an equal chance to develop their treasures. in this way, we can also ensure well-prepared and competent labour forces. the barcelona objectives also help towards achieving the lisbon objectives of having 60% of women in the labour market by making the reconciliation of public and professional life possible for women workers. it is clear that governments may not cut back on public services, not even during the current crisis. (the president asked the speaker to speak more slowly.) home childcare is important. every woman should have the choice between home and public childcare, but it is the responsibility of every government to ensure this freedom of choice by providing good-quality, accessible and affordable childcare for everyone. i am glad that we have such a dedicated ally in keeping the barcelona objectives.
mr president, i would like to start by responding to mr farage. if so far it was not certain that parliament would be united, i think mr farage convinced all of us that we must remain united as a european union. the systematic crisis has hit the eu and we have to ask ourselves why our lisbon strategy of 10 years could not save us. could we have a better target? could we have a better delivery? could we do it in a more cognate manner, or were we waiting for somebody to do it instead of us? the socialist group answer is that it is right to have a single, comprehensive strategy for the future, to drive competitiveness and social and environmental sustainability in one single strategy. the socialist answer is that we need delivery on lisbon targets for all of europe and we need it for all europeans, including the most vulnerable, the poor ones. we need to stabilise the financial markets and reduce the risk of similar crises for the future. but we will not support policies which drive our resources to tax havens and to the bank accounts of the few. we need to stabilise real economies throughout europe for all sectors, and especially the small and medium-sized enterprises, but we have to take the responsibility of supporting employment and not just allow those companies to generate profits. we need to go for r&d innovation and the digital switch-over, as well as building up skills to enable all citizens of europe to use those technologies. we will commit funds to save knowledge throughout ipr policies. we need to stabilise europe as a whole but we have to look beyond europe to even more vulnerable parts of the world and we will not build new demarcation lines within the european union. we need to mobilise actors to act. action, action, action, and delivery. words alone will not drive us to succeed. it is not enough to do a lot but it is necessary to do enough. we ask the commission, we ask the council to go beyond the spring summit and deliver our messages to the g20. this is what people in the street are waiting for from us. let us act together.
mr. president, i have to ask you... we are all aware that the employment policy and the lisbon objectives have become more important in the context of the current economic crisis, and we, as european legislators and decision-makers, must therefore work to make the implementation of the employment guidelines as effective and efficient as possible. as the outcome of the vote in the employment committee shows, there is a complete consensus among the parties that the employment guidelines for the period 2008-2010 represent a framework that is appropriate to the objectives to be achieved, but at the same time sufficiently flexible. within this framework, it is up to the member states to define the priorities appropriate to their particular situation and to give each guideline real substance. the framework is therefore a good tool to build on our common european success. it is up to the member states to put this excellent tool into practice. so there are two prerequisites for success: setting the right goals and then putting policies that match those goals into practice. the first precondition can be considered has already been fulfilled, and therefore i believe that in the next period we should focus on monitoring the content of the employment guidelines and their application at member state level. we cannot ignore the fact that the different public finances and debt ratios of the member states provide for different flexibility in terms of investment in employment and human resources. however, we must be united in the view that each member state should increase the level of investment directly linked to employment, in accordance with its capabilities. it should be noted that the success of the economic recovery packages launched by the member states and the achievement of the union's objectives are closely linked. this is why we need to coordinate our views on economic policy more than ever before, and in this light, and in the hope of a consensus between the political groups, i ask that we support the anderson report and vote in favour of it.
i believe that the root of the current economic crisis is overconsumption, the root of the ecological crisis, and we have to dig into that to find a solution. we are at a crucial moment in climate policy, as we must agree on new common objectives to combat global warming in copenhagen at the end of the year. so the stakes are high, we can't make a mistake, we can't delay. the legal instruments before us not only define the framework, they set the main direction, the actual, concrete steps follow only after that. to achieve the greenhouse gas reduction of 25 to 40 percent that scientists are recommending by 2020, to stop the loss of biodiversity, we need very serious financial resources. in recent years, i have had the good fortune to visit bangladesh, china, india and, most recently, guyana with parliamentary delegations, and my conviction has only grown stronger. on the one hand, we need to support developing countries, but only through transparent and well-monitored investments, and on the other hand, the proceeds of eu emissions trading auctions should also support adaptation measures in developing countries. the environment committee proposes a total of €30 billion for this purpose by 2020. this is a huge amount, and it's a big job to use it well. on the other hand, fighting climate change is a great opportunity for europe to create new technologies, new jobs and increase energy security. the un and the new american and european governments recognized that the way out of the global crisis would require not just a fresh, efficient engine, but a new engine of organization. the current economic recession is masking the real problem facing humanity and europe: the ecological crisis. the green new deal is a historic opportunity to solve both crises at once.
the european union has never been in such a crisis situation as it is now. two fundamental principles are called into question: the unity of the internal market through protectionism and solidarity. martin schulz is absolutely right that the european commission has not taken any concrete steps to regulate markets, to supervise financial markets and that selfishness, that protectionism can destroy the unity of the european union if we do not preserve solidarity. because there are problems not just outside the eurozone, but inside the eurozone! greece, hungary and others have similar problems. and i would like to remind mr farage that the western european banks, the western european companies, have bought up the companies, the banks of the new member states, and now they are not showing solidarity, they are not providing the funds.
in writing. – the union needs to maximise its efforts to implement a consistent framework to tackle the global financial crisis. if we want to restore public confidence and a sound financial system, we ought to act rapidly to sustain employment and economic activity. to alleviate the negative effects of recession, maintaining social standards and employment levels, some adjustments should be made to simplify access to available resources while ensuring more transparency and better management. the last eit council conclusions called for 'rapid additional action by the esf to support employment, especially for the most vulnerable groups in the population, paying particular attention to the smallest undertakings by reducing non-wage labour costs'. i would like therefore to ask the next council summit to seriously consider the creation and retention of jobs through co-financing measures related to reducing non-wage labour cost, on a temporary basis, in countries seriously affected by financial or economic downturn. the utmost attention should indeed be given to the most vulnerable groups in the population, those who suffer the most from the consequences of the economic and social downturn, to avoid further asymmetric impact of the crisis that jeopardizes the balanced development of all territories within the union.
in writing. there is no need to rank offences. but shared pain mobilizes resources and intentions. many cite the 1929 crash, even though world war ii, which followed, had already led europe down two different paths. the countries of the former eastern bloc were also traumatised by the change of regime, but here and now we are all equally threatened by the global financial and economic crisis, which has already shown signs of being unexpected. from the moment of the crisis, europe's path can no longer be divided, but it can no longer be a system of parallel roads, no more two speeds. except for speculative capital, everyone is losing, at most in different amounts. the common market paradigm can only remain viable and competitive in this situation if we together provide coordinated common responses. the specter of protectionism is not good advice! it is up to the member states to work together to develop their own financial plans, which the union should complement by giving support to whom it can, while also benefiting those member states and citizens who are lagging behind. the cee region has been pushed back in this line partly by history, partly by the fact that the lack of the euro has turned mistrust and speculative capital against us. and although there is no equality between the individual member states of the union, i firmly believe that at european level there is a need to develop a support system that allows appropriate assistance to be provided on a country-by-country basis in a spirit of solidarity.
on behalf of the alde group. at the end of last year, two important developments took place in the accession process in croatia. on the one hand, the croatian government has taken substantial steps in the area of judicial reform, has taken decisive action against organised crime and has shown results in the fight against corruption. at the same time, accession negotiations have stalled due to a bilateral border dispute. this is not just about croatia - ladies and gentlemen - but more about the credit for the enlargement process. that's what's at stake in this behavior, which is why it's very important that you unblock this as soon as possible. the very dangerous message of blocking the negotiations is that accession is not dependent on the fulfilment of the conditions but on the settlement of bilateral disputes, where one side seeks to impose its will on the other from a position of strength. we welcome the mediation proposal of commissioner olli rehn, we are very pleased that slovenia and croatia have also responded positively to it and we hope that there is no longer any reason to block accession negotiations any further. we continue to believe that the negotiations can be concluded by the end of the year, as originally planned. however, this requires further effort. we expect croatia to dispel any concerns about cooperation with the international criminal court in the hague and to provide all the documents requested. this is very important. we also attach importance to facilitating the return of refugees, the integration of the roma minority and the completion of the desegregation programme, as well as the effective use of eu funds, which are also seriously lagging behind. there's still a chance we can keep the original schedule. this is our joint responsibility. we also expect constructive action from croatia, but also from the european union, because it is not just a question of our joint commitment, but of the credit for the whole enlargement process.
as chair of the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee, i would like to draw attention to the very significant development that on monday the croatian prime minister and not only the prime minister, but also the president of the republic, as well as all opposition parties in parliament agreed to the eu mediation in the bilateral border dispute between croatia and slovenia on the basis of international law. i myself consider it unprecedented in the history of the union that a member state should paralyse the enlargement of the union and prevent the opening of 12 negotiating chapters at this moment, and do all this by declaring at the time, in 2001, during its own accession negotiations, that it had no border disputes with its neighbours. since the opening of accession negotiations in 2005, significant progress has been made in the reform of the judiciary and public administration, the fight against corruption, the protection of minority rights, the return of refugees and regional cooperation. in the case of croatia, the first reference values in english benchmarks were also met. there were approximately 100 of these, and they were successful. in the light of the extraordinary efforts, the croatian population would finally expect positive messages from the union. the sensitive and self-conscious population was disappointed when a neighbouring, friendly country single-handedly prevented the continuation of accession negotiations. the only way to achieve long-term and satisfactory stability in the balkans is through european integration. the union is making a mistake if it allows slovenia to hinder the negotiations with croatia, which has already done everything possible to protect the european values and to adopt community legislation, by its bilateral dispute. i would like to point out, madam president, that it is not fortunate - perhaps not for those who are listening to us, nor for those who are not - that the fate of three important countries with a huge history is being discussed under one hat. maybe it would have been better to have negotiated the three countries separately.
in writing. the turkish question has always been surrounded by doubt and mistrust. there was always a problem that went far beyond the need to meet the strict accession criteria. in this respect, it is enough to look at the neighbourhood relations between turkey and eu member states such as greece, cyprus and non-eu countries such as armenia. and also, if you consider that turkey is the only country that has the union of 26 member states, regardless of any reality, regardless of any international convention or law, it's interesting that turkey wants to join this community, to belong to this community in the future. i am of the view that unless the country's attitude changes substantially on issues of fundamental importance, the country's future accession to the european union is doomed. when the european union decided to open accession negotiations, it did so in the hope and conviction that turkey had a place in the european family. i ask you, is it true that turkey today thinks the same? if turkey shows a clear commitment to developing good neighbourly relations, to peacefully resolving disputes in accordance with the un charter and other european union documents, then there is hope. if turkey meets this criterion in full, then it has a chance of winning the support of all of us and perhaps even regaining the sympathy of the citizens of europe.
in writing. energy cooperation has emerged as one of the most pressing issues in eu-turkey relations. the main reason for this is that turkey, as a transit country, can make a major contribution to reducing the eu's dependence on energy sources and to providing it with a more resilient supply. the deepening of cooperation with turkey can also be an important step towards the expansion of the internal energy market. i am convinced that the fundamental objectives of turkey and the european union are in the same direction. they want to meet the growing demand for energy from as many sources as possible. the promotion of multi-employment is an urgent task, particularly in the field of gas supply. a key tool in this endeavor is the construction of the nabucco pipeline. the january gas crisis highlighted the need for this investment more strongly than ever. it is therefore a welcome development that the european economic recovery plan should allocate funds for the construction of the pipeline. the first steps in the nabucco case will require bilateral intergovernmental agreements, primarily involving turkey. i find regrettable the statements which directly link ankara's relationship with nabucco to the country's accession to the eu. i am convinced that energy cooperation should not be used as a weapon of foreign policy. the above calls for a more intensive energy dialogue between the european union and turkey. one possible stage of this could be the opening of the energy connection chapter.
in writing. stabilising the western balkans and strengthening european connectivity is an important task for us, as the region is of geostrategic importance for europe, while being highly vulnerable and vulnerable in many respects, such as economic and energy. we hope to welcome croatia to the eu in 2011, during the hungarian presidency, but this is conditional on the success of the bilateral negotiations with slovenia on the partition of the gulf of piran, which are now under way and are being mediated by the international community. another requirement is that croatia cooperate fully with the international criminal court in the hague in the search for and extradition of war criminals. we also need to send positive messages to countries in the region where the timing of admission is still uncertain due to a number of external and internal factors. as soon as possible, ratify the stability and association agreements with serbia and bosnia and herzegovina, grant official candidate status to all countries in the region and set out a precise timetable for the early granting of visa-free travel. the financial crisis has hit the balkans hard, and eu member states should help stabilise the region if necessary, and help the countries in difficulty. the union should also monitor inter-ethnic relations in the region, in particular in view of the delicate internal situation in macedonia, which currently contains the most dangerous conflict in the region.
on behalf of the alde group. the eastern partnership, the logical and necessary new priority resulting from enlargement to the east, is perhaps the most ambitious foreign policy undertaking of a reunited europe. it's a good move, but it only makes sense and will succeed if there's real political will behind it. so if we want to not just put a new label on the existing neighbourhood policy, but we want to set ourselves goals and have ambitions that go far beyond the existing neighbourhood policy. the first task is clearly to replace the existing cooperation agreements with association agreements. part of that is creating a permanent institutional system, but that's not the most important thing. the meeting of heads of state or government, the meeting of ministers is important, but it will only be successful if it can show real results in the two pillars. the aim is to create a free trade area and free trade agreements and gradually achieve visa-free travel. we know that this seems like a distant goal today. the countries concerned are not yet ready for this, and the eastern partnership must help the countries concerned to meet these conditions as soon as possible, because this is in our common interest. the gas crisis of recent months has highlighted europe's energy vulnerability and energy cooperation is therefore a particularly important part of the agreements, which may include transit countries belarus and ukraine and exporter azerbaijan. so we think this is very important. i would like to emphasise that this cooperation must also convey values. the eastern partnership will be successful only if it also keeps in mind the values of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, minority rights, and helps its partners to move forward in this area, but also holds them to account. the eastern partnership should be open to belarus, but only if certain conditions are met. it should be made clear that moving away from russia does not in itself mean moving closer to the european union. they have a lot of work to do in the area of human rights, democracy, and then they can cooperate. the budgetary implications of the eastern partnership are clear: €350 million is earmarked for the coming years - and that is unlikely to be enough. it is also the parliament's responsibility to provide the necessary financial backing for this. so we have to acknowledge the european ambition of the partners in the eastern partnership, because it is the most important motivator for them. thank you, sir.
the world-renowned rosia montana gold corporation, a canadian-romanian joint venture, is planning to build europe's largest open pit gold mine in verespatak, transylvania. in its resolution of december 2004, the european parliament had already expressed its deep concern about the project, which was threatened by a natural disaster. the 2005 icomos assembly, however, defended the historical heritage of the ancient settlement. the company, which has been the subject of a series of scandals, is preparing to use the cyanide-based extraction technology that poisoned the entire length of the river teide in 2000. the legacy of verespas was also destroyed, and its population was reduced to social misery. the romanian government appears to be preparing to lift the temporary ban on investment. i ask the european parliament to intervene to save verespatak, to protect its natural environment. the european commission should contribute to the rehabilitation of the destroyed city and its surroundings.
the story is clear: a few hundred meters from the hungarian border, in an austrian village called heiligenkreuz, an austrian company is pushing for the construction of a huge waste incineration plant. on the hungarian side, the city of szentgotthárd considers this planned facility unacceptable for environmental and other reasons. over the past two years, there have been frequent protests from the hungarian side, but the austrian side refuses to take note of this. the result is growing anti-austrian sentiment, which is beginning to affect the traditionally good relations between the two countries. the austrian authorities are requested to review the plan in the light of hungarian considerations and to terminate it.
mr president, in january the commission attacked the hungarian moratorium on genetically modified maize mon810. the moratorium is clearly supported by the whole hungarian scientific community, all political parties and hungarian society. at the european council in march, hungary and austria obtained a huge majority to maintain this moratorium, despite the commission decision. twenty-three of the twenty-seven member states supported hungary against the commission. this shows that it is high time for us to rethink the method of authorisation of gmos in the european union. i think – and, from the council vote, it is clear – that most member states think the same way: that the member states should have the competence to authorise a gmo or not. i hope that the next newly elected parliament will create a new regulation on the authorisation of gmos, based on the spirit of subsidiarity and transparency. the commission should cooperate with parliament and the member states, not dictate to them.
in the new member states, the old, unacceptable reflexes of power are still at work in the current situation. political freedoms were violated to an unacceptable degree in budapest on the occasion of the hungarian national holiday. the area around the celebrations is completely sealed off, just like in the days of dictatorships. the demand of the responsible government, the call for the removal of the prime minister, has been met with deportation, inhuman, humiliating treatment as part of police measures for the past few days. since the weekend, we have seen how the powers that be have ignored democracy as well, as they have tried to prevent early elections by playing power positions. we young people who are changing the system have not dreamed of such a democratic rule of law, but somehow we feel that this is how soft dictatorships start. similarly, the romanian authorities reminded us of the reflections of the past, when the president of the republic of hungary, despite the instructions of the romanian authorities, was only allowed to travel by car as a private person to the celebration of the one and a half million hungarian community on march 15. the authorisation for the presidential plane to land was revoked in romania under the pretext that the visit would damage the partnership between the two countries. this is happening in 2009 in two neighbouring eu member states.
last week's eu summit reaffirmed the principles also expressed by the european parliament, namely that the union will not tolerate protectionism, will not allow the achievements of the common market to be broken. i also congratulate the president on his attendance at the european council. very important decisions were taken, for example, on the issue of the creation of a system of banking supervision for the money market, which was proposed a year ago by hungarian prime minister ferenc gyurcsány and supported by parliament in the rasmussen report. that's a decision of principle at this summit, and it's a very important step forward. it is a very important step forward for the whole of the union, but especially for central and eastern europe, for the baltic states, that banks should not leave their subsidiaries, their subsidiaries in the region, behind, they should pass on the subsidies they receive. it is a very important expression of the european union's solidarity that the balance of payments support for non-euro area members has been doubled from eur 25 billion to eur 50 billion. it is in the common interest of all of us, thank you, it is in the interest of the whole european union.
this is not the first time i have been forced to speak out about the giant coal-fired power plant planned for tovetore in slovakia, with an annual emission of 4 million tons of carbon dioxide. this plant has sparked widespread protests on both sides of the border, but the authorities have nevertheless restarted the permitting process for the plant. across the border, the hungarian government has issued its 'crisis management and growth' strategy, in which it plans to extend the mátra power plant, which currently emits more than 6 million tonnes of pollution per year, with a new 440 megawatt lignite-based unit. needless to say, both plants are running without ccs. the european union adopted its climate package at the end of the year, the financial framework to 'climate compensate' developing countries was approved at the european summit this weekend, and we are preparing for the copenhagen climate summit in december with great vigour. meanwhile, the leaders of two member states, slovakia and hungary - although the latter have just resigned - are, as if nothing had happened, funding climate change with the money of their citizens, despite their protests. i hope the european union will not give either political or financial support to this.
the cosmetics industry, like many other industries, is undergoing a revolution. nanotechnology began to take hold of this industry a few years ago, and now it has opened up possibilities and prospects never seen before. of course, nanotechnology is not a new invention, the technology has been used by humans for 4,000 years, although we have only been consciously aware of it for 20 years. but it's important to be careful about this, not to slow down the discoveries and the applications, but to be aware of the health risks. we need to protect our citizens from these potential threats by taking a differentiated, risk-based approach. there are nano-applications and products that people use directly, such as clothing, food, and even cosmetics, where if you don't take a careful approach, people will literally experience the potential harmful effects on their skin. it is therefore important that people know what products they are using, so proper and detailed labelling is essential and producer responsibility is fundamental. we are talking about a huge and growing industry, with a revenue of €65 billion a year in the eu. for example, one of europe's leading cosmetics companies - one of the 3000 - spends €450 million a year on research and development alone and employs nearly 3000 scientists and researchers. the commission estimates that in 2006, 5% of cosmetics contained nano-ingredients, and that number could easily have doubled by now. to solve the world's problems that we ourselves have caused, we need nanotechnology, so i will vote yes to this legislation with a clear heart, but we must never forget that there are two sides to every coin. i congratulate the ladies of the legislature, mrs roth-behrendt, mrs grossetête and mrs wallis, they have done a very fine job.
the rapporteur. − europe is the land of promise for those who want to join europe from distant continents or the balkans. but europe is also, in many ways, a symbol of disappointment, or boredom, or bureaucracy, for those who are already inside the gate, the citizens of the european union, the opinion-forming intellectuals, or just the citizens. the report, when i got it, i took it with great enthusiasm. i have to say that in a way this enthusiasm has waned towards the end, because i myself have realised how many obstacles there are to engaging in an active dialogue with citizens, how far the bureaucratic machinery of the european union is from the daily lives and aspirations of citizens. what i have found, however, in the report - and this is perhaps not surprising - is that the less educated, the lower status our citizens have, the less they understand integration, the more eurosceptic they are. so i think, and this is the most important part of my report, that beyond the young people - who might be easily won over to the cause of european integration through the school framework - we are trying to target those who have not been reached so far. these are the people who live in the slums, the working class, the retired, generally the more modest and the poorer. they should be taught the values of the european idea, of european unity. in my report i propose - and the youth organisation of the hungarian socialist party has prepared a special draft for this - that erasmus grants should be available to many more students than at present. in hungary, a few percent of university students can take advantage of this student exchange, and it would be desirable for everyone who receives a degree to study abroad for at least six months. i had my own idea to have a uniform, one-year common european curriculum for history education. they can study the same european history in all 23 official languages and in all 27 countries for at least one year. the commission did not support this proposal much, it was included in a watered-down version. i proposed, on the basis of a proposal by university teachers in hungary, to create a free european university or in other words a "volkshochschule", a folk college. to enable european citizens, regardless of their qualifications or schooling, to enroll in a form of training that provides a relatively informative way of learning about the history, structure and functioning of the european union. it is the long-standing wish of the members of the european parliament, a long-standing wish, but i could also say a demand, that euronews, which is partly financed by us, should broadcast in all the languages of the member states. there is something absurd about euronews broadcasting in arabic or russian, but not in hungarian or in the languages of other eu member states. it is sad to say, commissioner, that you will probably hear from me for the first time that in budapest the english-language euronews has been removed from the cable package and replaced by a chinese-language programme, because unfortunately there is more interest in a chinese television than in euronews, since it does not broadcast in hungarian, but there are quite a lot of chinese people living in hungary. it was a great debate, and i would like to mention to the commissioner, if he is here, that i would like to suggest that european union officials should be able to speak more freely to the media than they have been able to do in the past. the problem is that often there is no one who can explain the commission's position in a competent way, and therefore only the opinion of the opponents is valid. and finally, i ran out of time, so to conclude, i suggested that the eu campaigns involve local ngos, who know much more about the local society, much more about the language through which to reach the people there.
in writing. the report of gyula hryhyi sheds light on a very important problem of our time. the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, the guarantee of a more effective and democratic functioning of the union, was rejected in a referendum in ireland. it's been the measure and standard of mistrust and ignorance in europe ever since. we need to give european citizens a more effective voice in shaping eu policies. this requires proper education, as the anti-integration sentiment is stronger among the uneducated. for example, general eu and citizenship knowledge is required in the framework of an open university or high school curriculum. it is important that people know their rights, that they know the union is not working above them, but with them. we must also ensure that the information flow is adequate for the less-developed regions. the key to democracy is not the bureaucracy, but the citizens themselves, and that is the culture of democracy. it is essential to improve communication between institutions and citizens, and between citizens and each other, through the media. we cannot expect a responsible decision, any decision at all, from citizens if we do not inform them properly. information is our responsibility and our duty, and the decision is theirs. this may marks the fifth anniversary of hungary's accession to the european union, and we can see that the eu is not faceless, but we are, the sum of its citizens. we need to know that the decision is in our hands. let's live with the possibility.
the rapporteur. - after many delays, we finally have a big day. i would like to express my appreciation for the fact that the commission already addressed the subject of microcredit in a separate communication in november 2007, although it is true that parliament had already asked for more work on this subject in the summer of that year. i also think it is good that this debate has been coordinated by the commissioner responsible for cohesion, although it was previously discussed that it might be coordinated by the commissioner responsible for financial matters, but the aim and the community instruments must really reflect cohesion considerations. i regret, however, that the commission's document did not reach the legislative task, nor did it include such drafts, and so in the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs we used the strongest possible instrument, article 39, and asked the commission to take specific legal action or to take organisational and financial action in five areas. i would like to thank my shadow reporters, mia de vits, my colleague baeva and mrs ambruster in the secretariat for their hard work. why is this micro-credit important? on the one hand, we want to incorporate in the national lisbon action programmes the obligation for member states to report regularly on their progress in this area. only force will get you anywhere. on the other hand - and this is the commissioner's approach's greatest merit - we want to bring new segments of society into economic activity. therefore, a credit facility should be launched to help low-skilled people with traditional small business lending to send self-employed people and people without real estate backing to the labour market. this could mean the entry of new segments into work, which will be essential for sustainable development, to reach the 70% legal employment level. but how do we approach these layers? first, and this is what my report is about, we need to break the pattern of looking for people in difficulty in general. there is a need to define specifically disadvantaged groups, such as immigrants in the western states, roma in the eastern states, people in farming, rural situations, or women in general. however, they cannot be accessed directly via the traditional commercial bank network in the way that has been the case until now, because these instruments are not trusted by the target groups and, as i have already mentioned, are not marketable. so, in europe, we have to use the asian model to get the confidence of small groups to make loans, which are based on trust rather than collateral. in this system, of course, the role of the intermediary organization is important and it can carry out this activity even if this intermediary organization does not have a banking license. this has already been achieved in some member states but is not yet universal and therefore non-banking financial institutions close to the public, which are also excluded from securitisation, should be involved. the issue of caps has been raised and we are of the opinion that, although lending is expensive, the most important aspect for borrowers is the continuous liquidity. that's why i'm not in favor of the cap. and here you have to separate consumer credit from microcredit, you can't mix the two. it is also important to get the incentive at national level to want to become a micro-entrepreneur through micro-credit instead of unemployment benefits. and we need to come together on issues like counterterrorism, countermoney laundering, because it's precisely through the mentorship system that we can somehow eliminate the lack of a permanent home, the lack of a bank account, the initial lack.
in the face of the challenges facing the union, we must do everything we can to consistently close the gaps in economic and living standards within and between regions. in this sense, cohesion policy in the future should focus on its original objective, namely to bring about structural change in areas facing economic and social problems. to be more effective in the future, we need to focus on the territorial units that meet the challenges. the forms of economic cooperation in which macro-regions can play an important role need to be restructured. at the same time, we must also face up to the problem of concentrated poverty in certain areas. if we want to promote real change, we need to focus on the level where the problem is, which means that targeted, complex measures would be needed at the sub-regional level as well. it is not enough to finance projects, we need an integrated approach involving all funds, providing real help to the most vulnerable citizens of the union.
the rapporteur. - i was unable to address a few questions specifically about microcredit at the introduction, but the point is additionality. i would say again that this is an important cohesion principle, alongside partnership and an integrated approach. so to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra, to make a little extra extra, to make a little extra extra, to make a little extra extra, to make a little extra extra extra, to make a little extra extra extra extra, to make a little extra extra extra extra extra, to make a little extra extra extra extra extra extra extra, to make a little extra extra extra extra extra extra, to make a little extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra and we can do that by training new microfinance institutions, in this jasmine program that we're starting, to bring people who are close to people into this position. the additional benefit of a more flexible approach to competition both in de minimis schemes and, for example, in public procurement is to put the selfemployed in a position of positive discrimination. but what i want to talk about is the funding issue. on the one hand, to launch the pilot programme which parliament has been pushing for two years now with a budget of eur 2 million per year. i hope that in the second half of the year it will start. we're bringing together the programs that specifically deal with microcredit, making them transparent -- and several of my colleagues have mentioned this. the principle of additionality is also very important in getting member states to encourage people to become micro-entrepreneurs, not to sit at home in the social system, as mia de vits has also indicated. but i think it's important that we keep encouraging people to do that. and one very important thing to add on is that these microfinance intermediaries don't just take people to a queue. for example, in the case of the roma, instead of being oppressed by the aristocracy, we can develop a genuine partnership based on helping people.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr becsey zsolt, on his report which envisages the development of a microcredit system to support economic growth and employment. the document rightly points out that disadvantaged groups such as the long-term unemployed, those on benefits and ethnic minorities, in particular roma, should be placed at the centre of european initiatives on microcredit. microcredit has proved highly successful in promoting social and economic reintegration in many countries by promoting self-employment. in times of financial crisis, simple financial instruments capable of providing financing to enterprises, especially in disadvantaged regions and for such social groups, are particularly valued. those wishing to run small family businesses face considerable difficulties in applying for cohesion policy grants, especially in terms of co-financing. the creation or restoration of social cohesion should be prioritised over profit-making, as support for self-employment is substantially cheaper than unemployment benefits, so that it is worthwhile from a national economic point of view to provide microcredit even if it might not be profitable from a strictly financial point of view. the micro-credit facility should be made available to 'non-banks', i.e. persons who are excluded from the traditional banking sector due to the perceived high risk, low margin and risk of default, and should allow for the targeted involvement of disadvantaged groups.
rapporteur. − mr president, i will be very brief. on my advice, the socialist members of the committee on culture abstained during the final vote on this report. as rapporteur, i was rather unsatisfied with the outcome of the votes on the amendments. many of our fresh and pioneering ideas were voted out by other political groups. in my opinion, an own-initiative should be a brave – sometimes even provocative – document, free of the old dogmas. i planned to abstain, and to call on my comrades to abstain, in the plenary vote as well, but my wise and tolerant female colleagues convinced me that this would not be a good idea and that a watered-down report is better than nothing. so i would ask the house to support the report in its present form, in the hope there will be a chance to improve it in the future.
the rapporteur. - in order to make today's vote less tedious, i also asked to speak because we were not able to discuss this issue in plenary. i just want to say to my colleagues that we are at the end of a very long negotiation. this is a very sensitive subject and i would like to avoid the situation with alcohol, where parliament has not delivered an opinion. we are also taking into account a price increase for health reasons, but we cannot be so fanatical as to introduce a price increase which some member states simply cannot keep up with or which reinforces smuggling, especially in the peripheral member states. so i ask that everyone vote responsibly and consider a moderate but substantial price increase at the very least. and therefore, follow the voting recommendation i asked for on this issue, which was passed with some compromise in the economic committee. i therefore ask all my colleagues to proceed responsibly and to be able to give the council a large majority opinion on this ever-debated issue.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. first of all, i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on their reports, and i am also glad that this issue has now been brought up, the problems of the two financial institutions at the same time, and indeed, i think that we will need to deal with both institutions at greater length in the future. the first question, in very loose terms, is about duplication. here, indeed, some sort of long-term division of labour between the two institutions and a closer possibility of cooperation must be worked out. i saw that the rapporteur had allocated the large projects to the eib and the activities relating to smaller enterprises to the ebrd. anyway, i think there's a need for some kind of favorable specialization. i am glad that the european parliament can finally enter mecca and we can look at the future directions that are being taken here. i'm careful about this whole out-and-in-out thing. 12 years ago in hungary we thought we could forget about the imf forever, now they are at our doorstep, we run to them for loans. a few years ago we thought that the ebrd would not play as big a role in the member states outside the euro area, for example, and that the ebrd would move eastwards. now we are pleased that these two organisations have set up a large central european fund together with the world bank. i would like to point out that the liquidity and financing of smes is of the utmost importance to me - i am the chairman of the group working on this matter - and i would therefore like to ask that the options we have recently decided on be put into effect as soon as possible and that we really do, together with the commercial banks, provide a real liquidity opportunity, especially for smes in central europe.
in writing. due to the specificities of production and sales, any decline in the european automotive industry has an impact on other sectors in all member states. in addition to the decreased demand and liquidity problems associated with the economic crisis, the industry is also facing long-term structural problems: high fixed costs, oversupply and price competition have meant that many car manufacturers have already focused on reducing costs and increasing internal efficiency. the situation is not expected to improve in the near future, but the automotive industry has a promising global outlook in the long term and it is therefore particularly important for the eu automotive industry to be able to survive the downturn and be ready to seize opportunities when demand starts to grow again. this requires meeting consumer needs and designing vehicles that are greener, safer and smarter. the primary responsibility for managing the crisis lies with the industry. the eu and the member states can contribute to this by creating favourable framework conditions and fair conditions of competition. targeted and temporary state aid at union and national level could complement the recovery efforts of the industry and mitigate the negative employment effects of the likely restructuring. the latter should be given particular attention at both national and union level.
the european consumer is reassured to have complete confidence in the eu food that he or she eats. in the medium and long term, this is also one of the main reasons for the survival of the cap. we need to compensate european producers for having stricter food safety and environmental rules than our competitors outside the union. it would be good if we could succeed in the wto negotiations in asserting our legitimate demands that our global competitors adhere to the same strict food safety, animal and plant health and environmental standards and rules. the regulation on novel foods and the recent amendment to the report also serve to increase food safety. the current global food crisis, however, poses challenges to the continued growth of the population, making it worthwhile and even necessary to find new solutions. to feed the world's 9 billion people by 2050, the opportunities offered by technological advances, particularly biotechnology, are essential. for the avoidance of doubt, this report does not cover genetically modified food. the commission intends to include nanotechnology-based foods in the scope of novel foods. i have colleagues in the house whose concerns i understand to some degree, but it's important to see that nanotechnology is one of the keys to the future. europe would suffer a serious competitive disadvantage if it were to be left out of the development of this area. the key is the scientific, careful examination that accompanies the authorisation process, which is guaranteed by the draft regulation. the strict labelling regime is an important consideration. the food in question must not be such as to mislead consumers. there's a big debate about cloned animals, too. it would be better to regulate cloning in a separate regulation. in agreement with the opinion of the european food safety authority, the offspring of a cloned animal should not be considered a clone, but the regulation should also refer to the offspring of a cloned animal. we need to make that very clear to consumers.
mr president, the european commission and the european council have succeeded in preserving the unity of the union in the face of opposition. the summit was a great success, defending the single market, taking action against the threat of protectionism and, last but not least, offering new help to the central and eastern european member states in acute difficulty. i would like to thank president barroso for doubling the aid to the region to eur 50 billion. the hungarian prime minister raised it a year ago, and at this summit, a decision was finally taken in principle to create a european body for financial market and banking supervision. the fact that the parent banks are responsible for their subsidiaries has been put back on the agenda, as my colleague adrian severin has stressed, and very important progress has been made in the field of energy security.
i welcome the council's decision on the position to be taken at the g20 summit. i am pleased that our political leaders have recognized that global crisis management and the fight against climate change are closely intertwined. the green new deal of presidents gordon brown and barack obama is about linking economic stimulus with environmental investments, energy efficiency and support for green technologies. however, i do not share the european council's assessment that the implementation of the european economic recovery plan adopted last december is progressing well. although the positive effects will only be felt in the economy later, there is no doubt that the large-scale budget package, representing 3.3% of eu gdp or more than eur 400 billion , will generate new investment and create jobs. however, it is making only a very small contribution to the eu's transition to a low-carbon economy. while the emphasis is on improving energy efficiency and saving energy, more attention and money is being given to energy suppliers, diversifying supply routes and promoting the eu's energy interests vis-à-vis third countries. we need to develop energy infrastructure, no doubt, but not at the expense of reducing consumption. the european union remains committed to playing a leading role in the global climate agreement in copenhagen. but to do so, we urgently need to agree on the establishment of a global carbon market, financial compensation for developing countries, technological assistance and capacity building, and finally on the principles of burden sharing between member states.
in writing. the european union is welcoming the €3.5 billion in the economic stimulus package for key energy investments. i believe this is an important step towards a common energy policy. the final list of aid clearly reflects the fact that the european commission and the member states have finally recognised the benefits of interconnecting networks in the wake of the january gas crisis. strengthening interconnections is important in particular because it will help member states to help each other in the event of a supply disruption. however, i would like to point out that the final list of supported investments is not without contradictions. first of all, the principle of regional balance was undermined. the member states most affected by the january gas crisis are the ones receiving less resources. second, the resources available to strengthen alternative transport routes will be limited compared to the overall stimulus package. i believe there was an undignified debate over the nabucco issue. the pipeline in question would enhance the security of supply of the union as a whole and its construction is therefore in the common interest. last but not least, the list of aid does not mention investments related to energy efficiency. the eu is thus closing the package on its original objective of job creation. the european parliament therefore needs to give greater weight to the principle of regional balance, as well as to alternative transport routes and energy efficiency investments.
barack obama said in his speech in berlin last year that the united states has no better partner in the world than europe. it's time we said, "we have no better partner in the world than the united states". we should seek allies among those with whom we share values and interests, not those who are very far away. the transatlantic relationship is not an alternative for europe. the entire western world is facing serious challenges. international terrorism, proliferation, climate change, the economic crisis. what are you talking about? we can only be effective and successful against them together. as regards the economic crisis, the temptation to protectionism is felt in all countries. in the united states, too, because they've announced the buy american program. we must act together against protectionism, because ultimately protectionism does not protect us, it harms us all. there are high expectations ahead of obama's first european tour and visit. we expect the g20 summit to lay down the institutional foundations for joint action, the common rules with which we can overcome the global economic crisis. europe's ambition is to become a major international player. the treaty of lisbon creates the institutional conditions for this, but nothing can replace political will. we must play a greater role in international life, and only then can we meet our ambitions.
on behalf of the alde group. the european union was born in the shadow of two totalitarian regimes. it was a response to the horrors of world war ii, to the horrors of the holocaust, but it was equally important in its mission to stop the rise of stalinism and communism and to hold out hope that europe could be reunited in democracy and peace. as one of the most successful ventures in human history, the european union has been able to fulfil both of its missions. a long period of peace and prosperity, unlike any that had ever existed before, followed. it is no coincidence that greece, spain, portugal, all of them, as they emerged from authoritarian rule, chose this path, and it is no coincidence that after the collapse of communism, all of the countries of central and eastern europe chose the european union over a third way. the success of the european union is also demonstrated by the fact that the balkan countries are looking to the eu for their future, and that the countries of eastern europe, which are now living under a system that is often oppressive, and the countries of the south caucasus are also looking to the eu for their future. when we talk about totalitarianism, we don't do it because we want to live in the past. no, we want to look forward, but the only way to avoid the mistakes and sins of the past is to know the past, to process the past. without reconciliation, processing the past and knowing the truth, it's not possible. this is one of the most important lessons of the history of the last decades, and it is important that we remember the horrors of totalitarianism. we have a lot to do today. in some member states - and unfortunately my country is one of them, hungary - access to the intelligence files of the communist oppressive regime is still not complete. it's just outrageous that people can't know their own past. the union has an important role to play in calling on these countries to put an end to this unfortunate situation. secondly, unfortunately, in many member states, including my own, the representatives of extreme views are gaining ground. today it's more the far right, at least in our country, but there are countries where the far left is coming forward. it is important that we make clear to them the horrors of these two systems. in our immediate neighbourhood there are still oppressive systems - we just talked about one of them, belarus - so we don't have to talk about oppression as part of history today. europe's conscience cannot be clear without a full exploration of the past and a remembrance of it. when we remember the victims, we are actually doing our own duty, because it is our collective duty and responsibility to make the 21st century different from the 20th century, so that the horror of totalitarianism never returns to europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group twenty years ago, the temesvar uprising began, which led to the disgraceful fall of ceauşescu's dictatorship. the enthusiasm of the romanians, hungarians, germans, people and communities of different nationalities and religions, the courageous stand and unity against tyranny cannot be remembered with a cold head, without subjectivity. it is not a matter of party politics, but above all a matter of morality for us to condemn the oppressive communist dictatorship. it's intolerable and untenable that in 20 years this hasn't happened. last week, romanian, hungarian and bulgarian speakers took part in the public hearing on the prague declaration, which put the crimes of communism on the agenda. the declaration adopted in response states that the european community must abandon the double standard that is manifested in the different ways of judging nazism and communism. both of these inhuman dictatorships deserve the same judgment. i ask the european parliament to show solidarity with the victims of fascist communism and to help overcome the legacy of communism, which is a drag, in accordance with the moral, historical and political requirements i have mentioned. only then can a divided europe become truly united, as prime minister gordon brown said yesterday in his speech on the occasion of the 20th anniversary: 'my friends, today there is no longer an old europe, nor a new europe, nor east or west europe, but only one europe, our common home. other that's the way it is.
christianity and the idea of universal human rights sets up for us a single standard, a standard of human dignity and absolute respect for human life. so we must condemn all the modern-day metrics of which inhumane dictatorship killed or humiliated more people. it is unacceptable for a democrat, for a european, that even today, even in this parliament, there are people for whom the atrocities of the communist dictatorship are excusable and forgivable. there can be no double standard between victim and victim, villain and villain, suffering and suffering, death and death. those who today excuse the crimes of the communist dictatorship argue that all these atrocities were committed by these regimes in the name of noble ideals, equality and brotherhood. my dear colleagues, madam president, this is a big lie, and it should be written not for their benefit but to their detriment, because they deceived the people with promises of noble goals, as the hungarian radio said during the 1956 revolution, in the words of the hungarian writer istván örkény: "we lied at night, we lied during the day, we lied on all wavelengths". that is why, in the name of freedom, democracy and the idea of a common europe, we ask, we demand, that there be a common european day of remembrance and memorial for the victims of communism, and that a european museum, archive and research institute be set up to document the crimes of communism. let us eliminate from the ranks of democrats those who today excuse the deeds of communism and who wholeheartedly commit themselves to condemning all the inhumanities of europe. let's get as many people as possible to support the prague declaration.
it is difficult to write a common european history, since after the second world war the western and eastern halves of europe had separate histories. the central and eastern european and baltic states are victims of both nazi and soviet dictatorships, yet we cannot equate nazism with stalinism. no one can deny that the stalinist dictatorship has caused millions of victims, displaced people, and no one can justify or rationalize this. the soah, german nazism, with its industrial organization, sought to exterminate the jewish people on the basis of descent, the like of which was not seen in the history of mankind. what is often overlooked in western europe is that for us, liberation from nazism was also the beginning of a new occupation, soviet oppression. the 9th of may is therefore experienced differently by the old and the new member states, especially the baltic states, which have lost their independent statehood, their intellectual life has been destroyed. it would be good to have lived history without politics, without actual politics, as the hungarian poet said to confess, to form a common historical narrative. "it is enough to fight to confess the past", said joseph attila.
madam president, there is a further dimension to this debate. it is not only a united europe that needs urgently to look at the entirety of the past, but the same is particularly true of the european left. without a thorough scrutiny of its past, the left in some of the former communist states is obliged – compels itself – to live with a false past, a past from which all sorts of painful events are screened out. this further forces the left to protect this false past and thereby its democratic credibility is eroded. seeing as the western left fully accepts this unreconstructed post-communist left as a legitimate partner, it too finds itself obliged to defend an indefensible past. consequently, its own commitment to democracy is, to that extent, weakened.
i would like to congratulate the european commission and rapporteur siekierski on this excellent initiative, which shows the social sensitivity of the european union and the european commission. i have two requests to the european commission. the first concerns cofinancing: i agree with the report, but i would like to take account of mrs fischer boel's request that the poorer member states with the smallest budgets should also be cofinanced, since they are the ones most in need of distributing this food. the second point i would like to make is that transport costs should not be fixed at 4.5%, but should be allocated to the member states on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, since a smaller amount can be used for transport. and finally, the eu logo should be kept on the labelling of products, because it is the eu that gives them that. and finally, since i no longer believe i can speak in this debate, i would like to thank mrs fischer boel for her five years of activity, for having written her name into the history of european agriculture.
culture creates value in both a spiritual and a material sense. the cultural and creative industries employ millions of people in europe, and the film, book, music and publishing industries - as they say - are among the most dynamic sectors. it is no coincidence that the most successful and popular initiatives of the european union are closely linked to culture. as part of the european exchange of public collections, an unparalleled exhibition of gustave moreau and alfons mucha is now on display in a major museum in budapest. another such initiative is the european capital of culture programme, which not only positions and promotes cities but also entire regions. in less than a year, in hungary, in 2010, a little-known city in southern hungary, pécs, will be able to wear this proud title, attracting hundreds of thousands of visitors to the region and contributing to the development of an entire region. i am convinced that the european union can get closer to its citizens and bring them closer together through culture. when we talk about regional identity in the european union, it is obvious that we turn to culture. i am confident that in the period following the lisbon strategy, there will be more initiatives and resources available for culture and education than at present. in the modern knowledge-based society, the engine of the economy is the spirit of innovation and creativity.
on behalf of the pse group. the european socialists see russia as a key strategic partner. both the european union and russia are mutually dependent, as confirmed by commissioner ferrero-waldner. i want to point out that when it comes to gas shipments, we are mutually dependent on each other, because russia would not be able to sell gas to anyone else. it's good to know that. it is very important to develop and conclude a new partnership and cooperation agreement. that's what this report was supposed to do, but that's not what this report does. the report by mr onyszkiewicz, adopted in the committee on foreign affairs, is particularly strongly worded in some places and could cause serious damage to the eu-russia relations in its present form. the european socialists agree that the european parliament is formulating its legitimate criticism of russia. european socialists strongly condemn the violations of human rights. they demand respect for democratic rights and fundamental values. we call on the russian side to respect the principle of the independence of the printed and electronic media. we call on the russian authorities to use all their powers to investigate the attacks on journalists and the murders. the russian law on ngos threatens the independent functioning of these organisations. the socialists are watching with concern the recent parliamentary and presidential elections in russia. we criticize the russian side in the russian-ukrainian gas dispute and the russian-ukrainian conflict. at the same time, we are convinced that the european parliament's proposals should serve to improve eu-russia relations and to develop a new strategic partnership. that's not what this report is about. that's why we rejected it in the foreign affairs committee. the european people's party and the liberals are opposed to the ideas put forward by the commission. they are confronted with the new american policy, if you look at the obama administration, biden's statements, if you look at the change of style of america, the european union will be left behind in the new american policy, even though it would not be in our interest. so our problem is not with criticism, but with style. it's not a lecture, it's a fair criticism. the union cannot be a teacher for russia and the socialists cannot accept this draft report unless parliament votes in favour of all six of the amendments we have tabled, otherwise it will be a counterproductive report that does not serve the strategic partnership between the eu and russia. the union has an interest in good eu-russia cooperation.
in his inaugural address, president medvedev called the most important task of the country to ensure the rights and the restoration of the rule of law. unfortunately, by fulfilling the promise, he still remains in debt. we have a duty to remind him of his promise and to provide greater support to the independent public, to civil society, to the victims of violations. we seek pragmatic partnerships with russia and we are interested in a partnership agreement. but this can only be realistic if russia also shows a constructive, responsible and cooperative attitude. in january, confidence in the reliability of russia's energy supplies was shaken. the energy partnership should therefore be a central element of the agreement. it would be a confidence-building move for russia to finally ratify the energy charter and the transit protocol. we expect the european union to act unitedly and decisively on behalf of those member states which are heavily dependent on russian energy supplies.
madam president, my congratulations to the rapporteur. i think this is an extremely important report. russia’s strategic thinking, it seems to me, is one of the most significant problems facing the european union at this time. if we do not understand how russia thinks about itself in the world, we shall not actually make sense of what the kremlin says and does. there is in fact a logic to russia’s actions, but this is not the same as ours. while the eu has made the peaceful resolution of conflict the centre of its thinking, russia has no compunction about using force, as we saw in georgia last year. so the real key is how russia sees power. in the european tradition, power should be supervised by democratic institutions. to russia, power is to be concentrated in the belief that, through such concentration, power will be more effective. this is very dangerous for states that russia sees as weak. they automatically become targets for the expansion of russian power. the recent secretive purchase of a large shareholding in the hungarian energy company mol by a russian enterprise is thus more than a mere commercial transaction; it illustrates how russia moves into an unoccupied space. from the perspective of power, the european union and european integration are inexplicable, meaningless processes for russia. in russian eyes, the transfer of sovereignty is an abomination, not a way of securing peace. so – and it is vital that we recognise this – for russia, the european union is the problem. its success is a puzzle and, above all, it is an obstacle to the maximisation of russia’s power. the european union’s future success therefore depends on recognising how russia thinks about power. very differently from europe. and let there be no illusions about this.
in writing. in recent years, equal opportunities have become increasingly important in community decision-making. the proposal for a directive on equal treatment aims to apply the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. non-discrimination is a fundamental right and should apply to all citizens of the union. i am firmly in favour of fighting all forms of discrimination. the road ahead is not a short one and it is clear that progress can only be made gradually. this means, on the one hand, the completion and consolidation of legislation, on the other hand, the transposition into national law of new acts containing coherent and uniform principles, and on the third hand, their practical implementation. while this will require considerable work and time on its own, our aim is to make concrete progress within a visible timeframe and to live in a genuine europe free of discrimination.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr buitenweg, on his report, which paves the way for completing the legal structure for action against all forms of discrimination. article 13 of the treaty on european union sets as an objective, in addition to discrimination on grounds of sex and ethnic origin, the fight against discrimination on grounds of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. despite the adoption and transposition into national law of directives 2000/43, 2000/78 and 2004/113, there has been no common protection against these four types of discrimination outside the field of employment. the proposed directive is designed to fill this gap, and we hope that it will not only reduce discrimination but also provide redress for those who suffer from a disadvantage in all 27 member states. the effective implementation of the draft pending adoption and the closure of the gaps in the transposition and application of the earlier directives can complete the protection of eu citizens against discrimination. moreover, the adoption of the draft does not require any amendment of the relevant national legislation. i therefore sincerely hope that the european council will be able to give the unanimous support required by the treaties and the consent of all member states so that the european union can take a major step forward in the fulfilment of its fundamental values and objectives.
actually, we should be celebrating today. for years parliament has been calling for us to go beyond the financing of mere measures in the housing sector and to commit ourselves to real measures. a significant proportion of the union population lives in panel housing. by developing these residential buildings, we are making a tangible difference to the lives of those who live in them, reducing the energy consumption of buildings, creating and preserving jobs. the changes that are happening in my country are allowing 90% of the flats to be renovated, which is a big deal. however, since the funds continue to finance renovation only in urban areas, we cannot be complacent. the most deprived rural population is once again left behind. since we don't want to jeopardize the panel program that's important to all of us in any way, we've agreed not to give amendments now. in return, we expect the commission to incorporate our proposal into its pre-summer package. the first and most important step is to completely eradicate exclusion and the ghettos in order to achieve effective and sustainable social integration of the most disadvantaged areas. renovating the isolated compounds is simply pointless. instead of renovation, reconstruction supported by complex social job creation programmes is the solution. dear colleagues, we will have a real reason to celebrate when the people who work in the social cooperative that is being built on the site of the demolished rural ghetto, when they return home after work to their new apartments, tell their children to study and fight, because you can still be anything.
in writing. the economic crisis has led to the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs in the european union and more than 20,000 in hungary. unemployment has skyrocketed in every country in europe. the economic crisis is increasingly turning into an employment crisis, and surveys show that the possibility of job loss is currently the biggest concern for european citizens. the european union's most effective tool in the fight against unemployment is the european social fund, whose rules for use are now being significantly simplified, thus speeding up disbursements. the amendments now proposed by the european commission will significantly reduce the administrative burden of applying for grants and simplify and speed up payments. the possibility of abuse is minimised by the eur 50 000 cap, the system of pre-established unit costs and strict ex-post checks. with this measure, the european commission has once again demonstrated that, despite its limited financial resources, it is creative.
next week, the world will celebrate international roma day, which symbolizes the hope of roma people for recognition and inclusion. recently, terrible events have inflamed public anger, and the economic crisis has only made the situation worse, so our responsibility to find solutions to the problems of extreme poverty has been heightened. it is unacceptable for anyone to use the situation of the roma to make partisan attacks and to create hysteria instead of real action. the blame-seeking and group stigmatisation practices make it impossible to build a professional structure, seriously damaging the interests of roma and the majority. as a roma, after a century of exclusion that has plagued our communities, i reject all forms of collective guilt, whether it's the stigmatization of roma or the stigmatization of the majority society. accusing entire communities of criminal lifestyles or racism is a serious mistake and undermines the credibility of the eu institutions if statements are based on unverified information or false allegations. it is unacceptable that certain political forces seek to justify themselves by appealing to the historical grievances of persecuted groups. the problems of the displaced can only be remedied by a comprehensive reintegration plan, a european action plan to ensure the immediate development of the displaced areas.
the common european energy policy has been dealt another blow in recent days following the gas crisis in january. the austrian omv group sold its substantial stake in the hungarian mol to a russian oil company with an unknown ownership background, which reportedly does not meet eu transparency requirements in any respect. however, it is hard to imagine that the deal was made without the knowledge of the governments involved. the unexpected transaction is therefore a stark indication of the division in the member states and yet another warning. the union can speak of the need for a common energy policy, but the member states act in contradictory ways. if the eu cannot speak with one voice on vital energy policy issues, it will continue to fall victim to divisive tendencies. as a result, the vulnerability of european consumers will continue to increase.
in writing. it is often a complaint that the eu wants to regulate everything and fails to address important issues. a lot of people would think that this report is the same. but that's a mistake. this is about "food" for human consumption - we want to make it safer for the benefit of citizens. the current regulation is outdated and makes it difficult for veterinarians to replenish their pharmaceutical stock. regulation is therefore necessary to take account of the current specificities of the sector. today, more and more pharmaceutical companies have animal products departments that generate significant revenue. and the demand is constantly increasing, because animals are getting sick, and today, when food is becoming more expensive, it's worth avoiding. however, more recently, we have received information that some companies are working on ways to get the most out of animals. fast-growing chickens, pigs that can grow to be giants in a few months. they do all this with substances that are often harmful to humans. therefore, each product administered to an animal should be tested with the participation of the emea to determine whether these substances pose any risk when they remain in the animal and are released for human consumption. the possibility of accelerated procedures, which reduce the time of administration, and the need to make medicines more easily available to veterinarians should also be emphasised. there is nothing more important than human health - that's why money-driven 'animal doping' must be stopped.
in writing. the treaty on european union states that all citizens are equal within the union. unfortunately, this principle is not always applied in practice. the differences are due to the prevalence of extreme poverty, social exclusion or conscious exclusion, and the accumulation of disadvantaged areas that are excluded from the information society and whose inhabitants cannot have a common european awareness. i welcome the fact that the report mentions roma people specifically. the 10-12 million minorities live in segregated conditions, and their hopeless labour market situation is seen as a devaluation of their citizenship. the social divide is likely to have an impact on the ep elections. the most disadvantaged are less likely to vote because they lack information, and those on the margins of society are less aware of the importance of the fact that the european parliament is the only institution in the union that can directly influence its composition. unfortunately, indifference is particularly strong in the countries of central and eastern europe, again rooted in a lack of information, but also contributed by the fact that the catch-up process after the great enlargement has slowed down and caused disappointment. we hope that the free movement of citizens, workers and service providers will remove the barriers to the spirit and the mind. if it becomes natural to move within the confines of a larger home to achieve greater freedom, then a diverse and diverse union can embrace a variety of but cohesive and tolerant european citizens.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, there are different tools to sanction environment-conscious behaviour in our societies. there are regulations, directives, resolutions. we can forbid certain materials and activities. we can have a ban on dangerous substances and subsidise green technology. but in a market economy there are other tools as well. we can target consumers through the products they buy, recommending those products which are environmentally friendly and fit the requirement of sustainable development. this directive takes an important step in the right direction by simplifying the passage toward getting the ecolabel. the socialist group supports the report. my comrades and i have tabled many amendments to it, and those amendments are either favoured by the committee on the environment or their spirit is built into the compromise package. so our group will vote in favour of the report at the final vote today. we think that the environmental effect of products must be a very important issue in the eu, and the whole idea of an ecolabel gives a very useful orientation for consumers. of course the ecolabel should be given to the most environmentally friendly products, and the information should be clear and correct. in these hard times of the economic crisis, we should respect the interests of producers as well, and i am sure that this report balances the interests of the consumers and industry. it is very important to involve small and medium-sized enterprises in the ecolabel process and, therefore, the cost of the authorisation cannot be too high. i, as a shadow rapporteur of the socialist group, pushed the report in the direction of even lower costs, and i thank the rapporteur for accepting our arguments. for the smes i mentioned, it is obvious that we should have to abolish the bureaucratic difficulty of the authorisation. we have to simplify the procedure for getting the ecolabel because, in its present form, the decision procedure is very slow and bureaucratic. mostly the smaller enterprises do not have enough money, time and energy for the slow process of getting an ecolabel. it is very important to analyse the whole life cycle of a product, from production to destruction. it is not enough to judge the environmental characteristics of the ready-made product; the substances of the product, the process of production, the transport of the goods and the method for its destruction or decomposition should also be studied before an ecolabel is given. it is obvious, at least to us socialists, that the products which have gained an ecolabel must not contain dangerous substances. it was a very difficult question during our debates, but finally we were able to reach a very good compromise about dangerous substances. the main rule is that ecolabelled products must not contain dangerous substances, but there can be some very few exceptions. specific goods which do not have equivalent alternatives, and which have a higher overall environmental performance compared with other goods of the same category, may get exceptions. the best and most well-known example is the energy-saving light bulb, which has many environmental advantages but contains mercury. the issue of foodstuffs has also been widely debated. in this case the criteria should be further developed. the ecolabel has a real added environmental value. it considers the whole life cycle of the product, and the use of the ecolabel should not cause confusion in the minds of consumers when compared with other food labels. the commission shall adopt measures to establish specific ecolabel criteria for each product group, including foodstuffs. not later than three months after the final report and the draft criteria, the commission shall consult the european union ecolabel board on a draft proposal on this issue. as i have already said, the ecolabel shall be based on environmental performance throughout the life cycle of the best products on the internal market. that is why the report allows for setting the ambition level of ecolabel criteria on a case-by-case basis between 10% and 20% of the best performing products on the market, thus ensuring that the scheme rewards only the most environmentally friendly products but offers sufficient choice to consumers.
the voluntary eco-label scheme is of particular importance as it aims to promote the european distribution of products with limited environmental impact, both in production and consumption. i would like to draw attention to the importance of reforming the eco-label system, the need to simplify the system, to reduce the administrative burden of using the label and to broaden the product categories involved in the system. however, i do not think that this alone guarantees the success of the reform. if measures result in products with floral emblems being put in a higher price category than organic products, the incentive to consume these products will be unsuccessful. i believe that the added value of using the eco-label at european level should not lead to higher prices for products. in the long term, the widespread availability and increase in the supply of these products can only be achieved by price control measures, tax and other incentives. in addition to price stability, the need to provide consumers and producers with a wide range of information should also be taken into account, so that the eu institutions and the member states' authorities should provide information on the benefits of the label and the list of products covered by the scheme. extensive, motivational and awareness-raising campaigns are essential to change consumers' buying habits. in addition, i would like to draw attention to the importance of drawing up a detailed work plan for the implementation of the new objectives in such a way as to ensure that all stakeholders have the opportunity to participate in the development of this work plan. the continuously changing environment of services requires them to be reviewed regularly, on an annual basis. we must understand that it is the duty of all of us, irrespective of our nationality or national affiliation, to protect our environment, thus creating the opportunity to fulfil the objectives and values which the european union itself believes are essential to a full human life. and part of that obligation is to be able to choose from products in the same price range that are produced in an environmentally friendly way. i thank the rapporteur for his cooperation with my amendments. thank you for making this report, and thank you for listening.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate my colleague pál schmitt on his report on the european cooperation agenda for better schools, which very rightly points out that inclusive education models promote the integration of disadvantaged groups of learners and learners with special educational needs and calls on member states to improve access to training of the highest standard for such learners. across europe, roma children are the most affected by educational disadvantages: almost a quarter of roma children in primary school attend segregated classes, while the majority of pupils forced into special schools, mostly unjustifiably, are of roma origin. 82% of roma have only a basic school education or less, and only 3.1% have access to a quality of education that is in line with the majority average. in fact, improving the educational standards of roma children is a profitable investment from a national economic point of view, since the expenditure required to complete a roma child's secondary education is amply reimbursed by subsequent contributions to the budget. through their increased labour market opportunities through better education, they are increasingly becoming contributing members of society rather than dependent on the welfare system. the increase in taxes paid and the decrease in aid paid together represent a net benefit to the budget.
in my speech of 23 march this year, i called for the european parliament and the european commission to intervene to protect verespatak, romania, whose vulnerable population and built heritage, as well as its natural environment, are in mortal danger as a result of a mining project by a canadian-romanian joint venture. our fears have been confirmed, because after a two-year suspension, the new romanian government is finally ready to give the green light to the investment, which, by using extraction based on cyanide technology contrary to european standards, threatens not only the immediate environment but also the entire romanian-hungarian border area with an ecological catastrophe. at the same time as my speech, several of my colleagues and i are petitioning commissioner stavros dimas to ban cyanide technology. i ask the european commission to send a commission of inquiry to romania in the spirit of european environmental policy and, in the long term, to ensure that mining is properly regulated at eu level.
in recent months, fear has once again taken hold in the multi-ethnic - mainly hungarian - region of vojvodina in northern serbia. although our parliament adopted resolutions in 2004 and 2005 on the physical and psychological attacks against non-serb residents here, and although our parliament sent an exemplary fact-finding delegation to the region in 2005, violence, intimidation and humiliation against minorities there - especially hungarians - continues and seems to be intensifying. since the beginning of the year, there have been 15 moral and five physical attacks, two of them serious. unfortunately, trust in the police is weak. this is confirmed by the fact that no punishment has been given to date, which would have included execution in the event of such an ethnic attack, which indicates the inadequate functioning of the judiciary and, unfortunately, based on the experience of many years, its permissive attitude. this is reinforced by the fact that to this day the serbian majority cannot take into account that tens of thousands of people who were sentenced and executed without any individual guilt should also be remembered. how long can the european union tolerate the physical and psychological terrorization of indigenous peoples who speak european languages in a potential member state at the beginning of the 21st century? where's our minimum of prestige?
yesterday, the new hungarian socialist government was formed. i do not want to talk about the political aspects, but about the fact that there are no women in this new government. it is still strange that in 2009 a government can be formed in europe without a woman among the 14 ministers who make up the government. in the nordic countries, more than half of the government is female. france is getting close. in germany, more than a third. this is the general european practice. in this house, in the last five years, we have adopted eleven reports on equal opportunities for men and women. this is an important objective based on european values, but it is of no use if it is not put into practice. i therefore ask my colleagues - in this case my socialist colleagues - to take steps to apply these important and noble aspirations in their countries where this has not yet happened.
on 1 may, it will be five years since we joined the union, along with a number of other countries in central and eastern europe. at the time, it seemed that all the new member states respected the union's basic principles of non-discrimination, protected and valued linguistic diversity and the rights of national minorities. yet it can happen that after five years of eu membership, the majority language is openly and discriminatoryally protected against the use of languages by indigenous national minorities, as is happening now in slovakia, where a 1995 language law, which already drew strong international criticism, has been revived. this language bill threatens the use of the minority language in all areas of life, including the half-million-strong indigenous hungarian minority in slovakia, for example. it would not only promote linguistic diversity and preserve the identity of the minority, but would actually allow language inspectors and inspectors to fine the minority with large sums of money if they do not comply with the provisions that are considered to be unreasonable from brussels. i therefore ask the commissioner responsible for linguistic diversity to intervene and put linguistic diversity into practice in slovakia.
the ten new member states have been in the european union for five years. it's time to weigh the odds. our cycle is coming to an end. at first, there was a lack of confidence on the part of the old member states, but this gradually dissipated and over time it became clear that the new member states were the front-runners of the union's reform on a number of issues, such as the services directive or the freedom to work. so i think we can say that these five years have been a very serious learning period. at the same time, we must point out that there are still discriminatory measures against the new member states. i would just like to point out that this year too farmers in the new member states will receive only 60% of what farmers in the old member states receive. at the same time, i must say that joining the eu was a win-win mutually beneficial step, and i would like to thank the european parliament for welcoming us, the new member states. we've felt like a perfectly equal couple here for the past five years.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, the third energy package is about harnessing the sector with the aim of providing more security and transparency, as well as sustainable and affordable energy for all european citizens and enterprises. it is about facing the energy challenges in front of us. it is about reducing member states’ dependency on single outsource countries. it is about more customer and consumer satisfaction. it is about avoiding market distortions, especially between those countries which produce cheaply and those countries which wish to buy cheaply, which are not necessarily the same. it is about attracting investors in the field of energy. the european agency will have a key role to play and, as my colleague the rapporteur, mr chichester, has said, we have achieved a strong and independent agency and we have been able to increase the role of the european parliament to satisfy those targets which i mentioned above. i think it was wonderful working together. somehow it is a pity that we are ending this energy package.
in writing. we attach great importance to the fact that the european parliament can now approve the third energy package in its second reading. the new rules could lead to more vigorous competition in the eu electricity and gas market. however, before the proposal is adopted, we must not forget that the final legislation has lost much of its ambition compared to the commission's original proposal. the separation of the activities of the producer and the system operator was the subject of the most heated debate during the negotiation of the package. the outcome of this will fundamentally affect the structure of the eu energy market. i believe that the compromise reached by the member states will not result in transparent regulation in this area, since the member states may use three different models of separation. as a consequence, significant differences will continue to exist in the eu energy market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers. the possibility of switching service providers within three weeks, more detailed billing information or the standardisation of compensation procedures will make the benefits of market opening more tangible to a wider range of citizens. the new rules also make it more difficult for third countries to buy in. the energy package to be adopted is therefore an important step towards the establishment of a common eu energy policy.
the rapporteur is the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. − after 2006, i had the honour of drawing up the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the implementation of the budget of the european union and its five agencies for the financial year 2007. overall, i consider the overall rate of implementation of budget lines in this area to be satisfactory, which was 94,6%. the implementation rate of the life+ programme commitment appropriations is outstanding at 98,87%. among the agencies, the european environment agency, which reached 100% in both commitments and payments, and the centre for disease prevention and control were outstanding. however, there is still room for improvement in the budgetary area for the european medicines agency, the european food safety authority and the european chemicals agency - the latter in its first year of operation in 2007. as rapporteur for the envi, i propose that the commission agencies be granted a discharge in 2007 in respect of the implementation of the budget in the fields of environmental policy, public health and food safety.
the european parliament has been exercising control over the management of more and more agencies in this cycle, as my colleague mr fjellner has said. the constructive dialogue between parliament, the agencies and the european court of auditors during the audit process has led to increased transparency and improved management discipline. in the current difficult economic and financial situation, the importance of the audit work has become more important than ever. looking back over the period, i am satisfied that the budgetary audit work not only revealed regularity or lack thereof, but also provided forward-looking suggestions to the institutions audited, which were trying to implement them effectively. i think it is important and i support that agencies are not only evaluated in absolute terms but that we also look at their development in relation to themselves. i am particularly in favour of the establishment of agencies in new member states to bring the work of the european union closer to the people who live there. mr fjellner and i agree on almost everything. tomorrow we'll know the final position.
on behalf of the pse group. we are closing a very important debate tomorrow with the vote on this proposal, which will clearly increase the safety and security of european citizens. the aim is not to find a solution, but to move forward from the present situation, and i certainly feel that the creation of community rules at national level is a major step forward. we therefore fully support the commission's proposal and mr hökmark's report. we have tried to improve this further with our amendment motions. i believe that the citizens of europe deserve a step forward in the field of nuclear energy, which already accounts for 32% of their electricity supply. let's do it together.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. as the epp's spokesperson, i consider the two documents before us, the commission's resolution and the caroline lucas report, to be equally important. to stop deforestation, forest degradation and biodiversity loss, we believe that we need both. at present, almost 13 million hectares - the size of greece - of forest are lost every year, and deforestation is responsible for almost 20% of global carbon dioxide emissions, which is more than the total greenhouse gas emissions of the european union. deforestation is responsible for a significant decline in biodiversity and the extinction of certain species, as well as the decline of the earth's ecological services. there is no doubt that action is needed and that the european union must take the lead in shaping the global policy response. in addition to tropical forests, i consider it particularly important to stop deforestation in central and eastern europe and to establish a strict system of sustainability criteria for wood materials and wood products. green public procurement and sustainability criteria are needed for wood and other biomass used for renewable energy production. part of the auction revenues from the reduction of co2 emissions should be used to stop deforestation, and i welcome the efforts in the report by mr lucas to tighten controls and establish an effective penal system. finally, i think it is particularly important to set up control bodies and to apply penalties which really reflect the compensation for environmental damage.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague anna záborská on her report, which shows that although there is an agreed strategy in some of the european parliament's committees to promote equality between women and men, there are still gaps in the consistent application of the principle. the report also makes a number of forward-looking proposals, such as an initiative to provide equal opportunities training for officials working in the european parliament, as knowledge of the relevant issues is essential for the practical application of the principle. equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of community law and the european parliament can only maintain its credibility vis-à-vis its citizens if it demands that measures be taken or fully implemented to promote equality of opportunity between men and women within the institution, in particular in the specialised committees and delegations. to this end, we need to present a strategy that sets out concrete objectives for the vigorous promotion of equal opportunities and the horizontal implementation of gender equality. it is a sad fact that almost no progress has been made since my colleague mr zaborská's report on the same subject in 2007; we hope that the new resolution will bring more results.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the speed with which he has prepared his report and on his sensitivity to the fact that mrs berès would pay attention to me on this subject, which is positive in every way. although this cannot replace the problem that i do not understand why we should deal with this in such a panic, ignoring the situation of ordinary representatives, since the 25 billion euros so far would even include the romanian emergency aid. the second time this issue will be on the agenda in the near future, and i myself said in my speech in november that the amount raised at that time would be too little, and i was right. not only because new member states have come forward with new demands, but also because, in keeping with my view at the time, i still think it's a political problem, and indeed a shame, that the balance of payments debts of the strained non-eurozone member states are not being solved by the union, but are being solved in co-production with the imf, somewhere between the turkish and pakistani loans. that is a shame for member states. we thought we were going to serve one god when we joined, but now we have to serve many gods. on the other hand, we should also examine - we asked the commission in november, without success - what led to this situation. it would then have been apparent that the irresponsible economic policies of the governments of the member states concerned - as in the case of hungary - were the main cause of this, to which the commission had contributed because of the responsibility for the common economic policy, or the lack thereof. but it would also have shown that solidarity - as a fundamental value of the union - had failed in this prevention issue. the payment difficulties and the devaluation of their currencies are also accompanied by a lack of euro liquidity. partly because of the caution of the parent companies behind the colonial-level subsidiary system, partly because they didn't get any concrete, usable help from the eurozone, especially the central bank, unlike their counterparts in the eurozone, who were being pumped full of liquidity as much as they could. but competitiveness neutrality is also hampered by the fact that, because of their fragile currencies, these countries cannot survive the crisis with the fiscal incentives provided by others. i am glad that our report has raised the issue of involving the european parliament. in particular, specific detailed terms of delivery with non-euro area countries in difficulty could attract the attention of my colleagues. how could it be that under the contract with the hungarian government, with the demographic trends in europe as its main problem in mind a radical reduction in childcare fees was prescribed? i find it particularly outrageous that in the supplementary agreement of march this year hungary is being forced to reduce the national supplement to direct agricultural aid. this is not a social issue, but a matter of mitigating our already severe competitive disadvantage in the accession treaty. how did you come up with such an immoral idea, along with the otherwise spineless hungarian government? do you have any idea of the damage this is doing to hungarian farmers and the prestige of the union? of course we will vote for the motion, because it is progress, but it is only a sign of half-solidarity. we need to reach full solidarity.
mr. president, i have to go. officer, please! i'm sorry, but i have to go. we can't predict the length or magnitude of the crisis, we're always tracking it. while we cannot anticipate a crisis ex ante, we must strive to minimise response time and maximise transparency, democratic process and efficiency. speaking of time, we're like kronos in crisis management: crisis management time eats its own children, we become victims of the crisis if we can't act efficiently, quickly. the european institutional system must be given the role of rheia, wife of kronos, we must deceive kronos, time in crisis management. if mr becsey has brought home the issue of domestic policy, while i would like to thank the european parliament, the european commission and the european council for their joint commitment to solidarity and efficiency, let me point out that in times of crisis management, it is the duty of members of the national parliaments to cooperate, not with the opposition of the ruling party, but with the help of all parties involved in managing the crisis. in hungary and in every other country.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the european people's party considers that intelligent transport technology is one of the most important pillars of european transport policy. two years ago, when the mid-term review of the transport white paper was discussed here in parliament - and i was its rapporteur - we already identified the use of smart technologies as one of the key objectives as a tool to help increase efficiency on our roads, to improve the quality of services. but there are now smart developments that will make our roads safer and our traffic more environmentally friendly. to turn our technological advances into applications, well, that requires this action plan and this directive. in the regulation i proposed that we set a minimum level of intelligent applications, so that at this minimum level we can cover our ten-t network, or at least our ten-t network. they will be for efficiency and safety. we are naturally looking to the commission to propose funding for smart solutions that will not be made possible by private funding. we also look forward to proposals from the commission on how to integrate smoothly the traffic across the external borders into the smart european infrastructure we hope for. the european commission has been given an unusually high level of trust in the framework of the directive, given that the directive is a framework directive. it is therefore important for parliament to be involved in the formulation of implementing instructions in the context of comitology procedures. madam president! today we voted on the revision of the green paper on the future of ten-t policy. we can be sure that intelligent transport is the future of the european ten-t network. thank you very much.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. officer, please! my colleagues! the implementation of intelligent transport systems has many tangible benefits. it will make european transport more efficient and safer, and will also help to protect the environment and improve energy efficiency. the commission's action plan and the clear timetable are commendable. i think it is important, however, that the systems be designed with compatibility, uniformity and regulation in mind. in addition to affordability for users, freedom of choice should be exercised, and appropriate laws should guarantee that individuals' data cannot be misused in any way. it is necessary to ensure the establishment of a rational, high-level and intelligent system, capable of evolving and of applying new technological developments effectively. it is in the interests of all of us to see them come to fruition. it is also crucial for the european automotive industry that we are able to move freely. thank you for your reporting.
"a hammer in the hand is a nail in the brain". that's how i feel about the current crisis, and everything i think about is expansion and recovery. i think this legislation opens up a whole new world of possibilities. in addition to revolutionizing health care, it could also give new impetus to job creation and economic development. creating patient mobility will not only affect healthcare. it can have a positive impact on the cultural offer of the host country, but it can also create thousands of jobs in the gastronomy and hospitality sectors. the increase in revenue would not only, and not primarily, be in healthcare, but in related services. the financial services sector is also set to develop, as clearing houses, healthcare brokers, consultants, insurance specialists, interpreters, translators are also needed in large numbers to operate the new system. during the rehabilitation, the entire medical tourism vertical would be blessed. the virtue of the legislation is that there are no losers, because if a member state does not want its citizens to benefit from the new opportunity, it will improve its own health standards and waiting times. if a member state attracts patients from abroad, it brings money into the country and into healthcare, and this will result in an increase in the quality of care at home. as a representative of hungary, i see an extraordinary opportunity in medical tourism based on patient mobility in europe. we already have a number of foreign patients coming to us for treatment, but the insurance background has been quite confusing, depending on the regulations in the country of origin. i'm sure this legislation will make a qualitative difference in all of our lives. i wish mr. bovis a speedy recovery. he also had a long treatment in hungary. and congratulations on the legislation, it's going to be an excellent piece of material that i'm very happy to support.
in writing. the european union's enlargement policy is the best instrument for stability in the western balkans and for maintaining peace in the region. we hope to welcome croatia to the eu in 2011, during the hungarian presidency, but this will only be possible if croatia finally agrees to start bilateral negotiations with slovenia under international mediation. the aim of the negotiations is to settle the border dispute between the two countries in the gulf of piran, without which croatia certainly cannot be a member of the community. furthermore, croatia is required to continue to cooperate fully with the international criminal court in the hague in the search for and extradition of war criminals.
the rapporteur. - i don't want to take two minutes. ladies and gentlemen! i'd like to draw your attention to two very important facts about this report. one is that these reports have been prepared for years, and the council has never put them on the agenda. i think it would be a very important matter for the council to communicate the contents of this report to the member states. this would also make a major contribution to the success of the discharge procedure for the council and the other institutions, and i therefore propose that the postponement of the discharge procedure for the council in the autumn be accepted only on condition that this report is also placed on the council's agenda. this would be very important for the council to adopt the legislation that is pending and to ensure the transparency of the spending of european money. thank you very much to those who helped to prepare the report, to the shadow rapporteur and to the amendment authors. we have adopted this report by consensus in the committee.
mr president, two weeks ago i gave a similar assessment of eu enlargement, that it is a success story where the old and the new win each other, what the englishman called a win-win situation. i would like to say, mr. president, that in the circumstances of the economic crisis, the political elite must set an example of restraint. in germany, the heads of state-subsidized companies have been restricted, us president obama has taken similar steps, the hungarian government is cutting the salaries of ministers by 15%. mr president, it would be good if the european commission set an example in this respect, because in a time of crisis the union's prestige, credibility and prestige would be greatly affected if the commissioners were to give up part of their extremely large final salary. even if it is symbolic, it would send a signal to the european citizens that in times of economic crisis, the leaders of the union are also ready to make sacrifices, they too show solidarity with those on lower incomes.
in writing. – even during a crisis, equal treatment should be high on the political agenda. women will suffer from the present crisis in the long run, and will be hit in the second wave of redundancy. they will have to cope with their unstable social and economic situation and their growing burden of juggling earning money and care responsibilities. in such circumstances, we may not allow women’s rights to be taken away from them. self-employment is of great importance for women because it could be of great help in avoiding unemployment or in better reconciling professional and family life. in this way, women would have an efficient tool for contributing to the development of the economy. women should have equal chances to engage in self-employed activities and establish companies; maternity-leave systems should ensure that self-employed women can benefit from them in the same way as employed workers. in parallel with this, safety and health for pregnant workers and those who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding is of crucial importance. not only does this help europe not to lose women’s talent and presence in the workforce but it also contributes to facing the present demographic challenge and ensuring children’s healthy physical, emotional, and mental development.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, the failure of the legislative procedure to amend the working time directive is regrettable and shows the lack of agreement between the council and the european parliament on one of the most important issues affecting the world of work. the rejection of the compromise, which was endorsed by the two readings of the ep and was supported by the whole political spectrum, came at a time when jobs are being lost across europe, large companies are announcing their plans to reduce their workforce and taxpayers' money is increasingly needed to help banks in trouble and to mitigate the adverse effects of the economic crisis. the council's stubborn insistence on the opt-out institution has also had the detrimental effect of frustrating the conciliation procedure with the european parliament by failing to put in place a reassuring arrangement for doctors' office hours, whereas the eu legislators were already very close to reaching agreement on this issue and to adopting a compromise solution. a settlement would have been much more advantageous to all parties involved than continuing litigation. although no one disputes the validity of the judgments of the european court of justice, it is a strange situation when doctors have to constantly sue the administrators of institutions in order to enforce their rights. it is sad that in a year of economic and social tensions such as 2009 the council has shown no willingness to settle one of the most important issues, the regulation of working time, at eu level.
madam president, two years’ work and my congratulations to all of you on this hard work. the telecoms package makes a major contribution to the lisbon strategy as the sector represents 4% of gdp and 25% of gdp growth. it is one of the basic sectors for european economic power. the telecoms package makes a major contribution to a knowledge-based economy, not only through the sector itself, but also by increasing opportunities for users, whether these be companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, or individuals. everyone can benefit from it. the telecoms package makes a major contribution to the european economic recovery plan through its development of the network. the telecoms package makes a major contribution to strengthening consumer rights and consumer opportunities as more and more consumers can use it. the telecoms package also, however, makes a major contribution to the development of democracy. it provides access to all europeans and new means to practise our rights and obligations, but is also a balance established by the regulatory body: a balance between giving europe an instrument to achieve a truly internal market in the telecoms sector, and using the expertise available at national regulatory level. my congratulations to the rapporteurs and to the commission. over the next five years, we shall make the first step, which then has to be followed by others.
in writing. since accession in 2004, despite all our efforts, the eu has gradually developed into a competitive poverty and the economic crisis has aggravated the situation both at member state level and among citizens. the resulting social conflicts are straining the existing european framework, as citizens rightly expect the eu institutions to provide social security for them, not just for the banks. in a market that is shrinking because of the crisis, competition is increasing between both businesses and workers. the persisting social tensions in the eu are best illustrated by the overreaction to the posting directive triggered by the ecj judgments. in order to dispel unfounded fears, it is essential that the actual legal situation is clarified and that the next commission assesses the transposition of the posting directive by the member states. in order to address the crisis and resolve tensions, additional legislative instruments are needed beyond those contained in the social package. social peace is difficult to achieve without a european minimum wage. the definition of decent work and decent life, crossborder collective agreements, are all issues where the commission has additional responsibilities. in the long term, of course, the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights, which have already been ratified by 25 member states, can provide a broader european competence by creating equality of economic and social rights, but they are in no way a substitute for a series of rapid, short-term measures.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to welcome this proposal and also to thank richard corbett for his hard, and not always rewarding, work. very often when we change the rules of procedure our colleagues get worried about what is happening. most of them only realise what has happened and what changes we have made once it has come into effect, by which time it can no longer be changed. i firmly support most of the proposals which have been tabled, especially because they reflect not just your hard work, but also – as you mentioned – that of the parliamentary reform group chaired by dagmar roth-behrendt, which prepared this proposal very well. however, during the parliamentary reform process, i also made it clear for our group when we had our discussions that this report on parliamentary reform has to be approved by changes to the rules of procedure. this is a democratic procedure ending in a vote. nothing could be changed just by discussions in that group and we worked very much along these lines. i would also like to mention that i was somewhat critical about what has just been mentioned, namely that some of the informal procedures which we have in the parliament are institutionalised. i am somewhat afraid because if we have a custom, then it is better to keep it as a custom and not necessarily change the rules. for our group, the most important point is, however, proportionality. in our parliament, the committees have very strong roles. in preparing the votes here in parliament they take a lot of the burden from this house by voting in committee. it is not just a simple question of procedure, but a question of democracy, that the committees reflect the proportions which exist in plenary when important issues are decided. i think this is a basic question of democracy and, on behalf of the ppe-de, support the report.
my dear colleagues, i would like to begin by thanking mrs stavreva for her cooperation and congratulate her on her excellent work, which has been unanimously supported by the committee on agriculture and rural development. following the council's debate, we have some eur 1 billion 20 million available to help alleviate the effects of the crisis in the rural areas. the commission has also been able to use the money to develop broadband access in rural areas and to address new challenges identified in the review of the common agricultural policy, in a much more flexible and sufficiently broad framework than the original proposal. the member states' rural development plans should be reviewed as soon as possible in order to make the amounts now determined available as soon as possible. this is perhaps the most important for rural people, because these developments can open up new jobs, new training, new markets, while reducing costs and using new and innovative technologies. the rural population is the most vulnerable victim of the economic crisis and, indeed, looking ahead, there is a risk of further territorial and social exclusion beyond the economic crisis. even before the crisis, we were faced with the continuing fragmentation of the countryside in a significant number of member states. it is our responsibility to develop and implement the necessary measures to protect our rural values as soon as possible. ladies and gentlemen, since my party is not expected to do so well in the elections to enable me to continue with you for the next five years, i too would like to thank you for the excellent cooperation i have experienced in this house, and as a young politician i can only wish that all young politicians would learn in such a wonderful environment how european politics works.
thank you, mr president. i congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs of the political groups on the compromise reached. while many of us may not see many of the items as ideal or favorable, i think it's politically important that legislation be enacted now, before the election. a few comments: 1. as rapporteur for microcredit, i am pleased to see that my report includes the wish to develop a risk management system that reflects the specific features of microcredit, such as the absence of classical coverage and self-sufficiency. i hope that happens as soon as possible. thank you for your suggestion, madam berès. the second. i was very critical of the relationship between the oversight and the 2005 amendment debate. in particular, the supervision of parent institutions raises constitutional concerns regarding applications in the country of the subsidiaries, which are mostly subsidiaries in the new member states. it alleviates that vulnerability, if it doesn't eliminate the college system, which is still a good direction for me, but it's not the real solution. however, in the light of the compromises, i regard this situation as progress, mainly because the present compromise also envisages the imminent drafting of legislation on the integrated surveillance system on the basis of the de larosière report, which will be good for us and is a very serious advantage for the socialisation. i would like to express my particular thanks for the solidarity with the non-euro area countries in the amendment of item 153/3 since, by adopting my proposal, no special risk premium will be applied until the end of 2015 to loans in these countries, which are mostly taken out in euro by the public sector or the central bank. in view of all this, i suggest that we vote on the compromise in a bloc, including the 5% withholding, as this is already some progress. finally, as this is my last speech, i would also like to thank the president, all my colleagues for the work i have been able to do here for five years.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. assessing the human rights situation in 2008, especially in the light of relevant eu policy, there is still cause for concern. in this regard, i would like to highlight the situation of children's rights, which is a global problem. it is essential to address not only specific violations but also indirect threats such as cybercrime and media violence in order to ensure the rights of children. our human rights policy must be based on the recognition that human rights violations are not a typical phenomenon in third countries. unfortunately, there are also many current examples of this within the union. i would like to refer specifically to the mass violation of human rights that took place in budapest on 23 october 2006, when acts of violence and police brutality were committed against innocent people attending a peaceful commemoration. this is also reflected in the pictures of an exhibition which you can visit here in parliament. we must prevent such incidents from happening and we must recognise that even in the european union we must continue to fight every day for the respect of fundamental human rights, democracy, freedom of expression and the rule of law.
mr president, i would like to ask whether there is any minimum requirement for the vote.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i am very moved to stand here in the european parliament as the first deaf person to speak in my native language, hungarian sign language, and not just for myself, for the deaf community, but for all people with disabilities. i now begin to feel that i belong to a european community where, despite the minorities, results can be achieved. for example, 50 years ago, robert schumann, who was from alsace-lorraine, became the father of the eu in this way. unfortunately, towards the end of the czech presidency of the eu, which is now coming to an end, a turn of events took place, and i would like to draw the attention of the next swedish eu presidency to this. two weeks ago, the slovak parliament passed a law that severely restricts the language rights of minorities in the area. as a sign language user, i feel obliged to stand up for the value and rights of european sign languages and that is why i will be working here in the european parliament. but my position is addressed to all european citizens. i want a europe that guarantees everyone the right to full life and fulfilment. i want a europe where there is a real equality of opportunity for the deaf and for all the disabled people i represent. i would like to thank mr joseph daul, vice-president of the group of the european people's party, in particular for giving me the opportunity to speak on this special day. and it proves that europe is really about diversity, tolerance and equal opportunities.
mr. chairman, members of the house. the brief but intense debate between mr farage, the leader of the group of the european people's party, and mr barroso, the president of the commission, was extremely instructive for the future of europe. he made it clear that the path that was being opened under the lisbon treaty was aimed at abolishing nation states, since it would not have bothered president barroso to see a national flag in this room. our aim is, of course, the same, the common goal of europe, but in a way that we want to make clear that instead of the slogan that stands here, 'united in diversity' we are seeking to cooperate in diversity, and that means that we stand for the survival of nations, and within this framework we want to work for a common europe.
i would like to draw attention to two of the priorities of the swedish presidency, which i was very pleased to see in this line. one is to take clear action against discrimination, racism, anti-semitism, xenophobia and homophobia, and i think what makes this issue particularly important is that we have seen that in the european parliament elections in several european countries, the support of the far right has been given priority, so we all have a great responsibility, including parliament and the presidency, to ensure that the most vulnerable are not put in a disadvantageous position. particular care must be taken to ensure that there is no cooperation between parties calling themselves democratic and extremist parties. a very good example of this is the slovak language law, which has been mentioned many times today, and which is severely discriminatory, as we have seen. the other thing i would like to welcome is the series of european steps to be taken towards the integration of roma communities.
in writing . i welcome the incoming presidency and express my hope that sweden, as the third member of the council troika, will continue the work started under the czech and french presidencies on the social inclusion of roma. the outgoing czech presidency was hampered by a number of factors, but the overall picture for the roma was positive, with the first meeting of the roma platform in prague in april and the european council in june reaffirming the overall objective of equal opportunities for roma, calling on the commission and the member states to overcome the misery and social exclusion of roma. in the same document, the council adopted the common principles for the social inclusion of roma laid down in prague, calling on public policy actors to take them into account and to comply with them. given the troika's achievements so far, i hope that the swedish presidency will at least put greater emphasis on roma issues than before, and will give high priority to the issue of europe's largest minority, which in terms of population far exceeds the baltic population, as a priority for the presidency, both at the october inclusive labour market conference and at the november equality summit. i also hope that the swedish presidency will start to fill this framework with concrete content, going beyond the theoretical approaches already adopted and the organisational issues already decided.
mr president, as a human rights lawyer with 20 years’ experience internationally, let me ask this parliament, in order to have legitimacy and credibility, to scrutinise the human rights situation in the third world and other non-eu countries, but also, please, to take a much closer look at the situation of democracy, the rule of law and human rights within the eu, in particular in my own country, hungary. let me share with you a couple of facts. on 23 october 2006, there was a major demonstration with about 100 000 people in commemoration of the 1956 revolution. this was organised by the largest opposition party, fidesz, which is well represented here in the epp, and basically they won the elections this year in hungary. it was a middle-class crowd of families, elderly people, children, and the brutal hungarian police brutally attacked this crowd with tear gas, with rubber bullets, with policemen on horseback, causing severe injuries to several hundred people. on the same occasion several hundred people were illegally detained and tortured in prison. ever since that date, throughout the last three years right up to the most recent days, when 216 peaceful demonstrators were illegally detained and brutalised by the police, on every single occasion when there was an anti-government protest, not in iran, not in china, not in honduras, but in an eu country, hungary, the same things happened: mass police brutalities, illegal detentions. may i ask you to please join forces with me and, regardless of political affiliations, help to find out what happened, to find who was responsible, to try to do justice to the victims and please, as the european union, to try to put an end to these mass violations of human rights within the eu, in order to have the credibility and legitimacy to scrutinise the human rights situation in iran or whichever country outside the union.
mr president, i would like to call on this parliament to take immediate and effective steps to save the small and family farmers in new member states, especially eastern and central european member states, and in particular my own country, hungary. what has happened to these farmers? as a result of joining the european union we had to ‘offer’, so to speak, 100% of our markets and in exchange we received 25% of subsidies. this is not just unfair and unjust, but also illegal: this was a clear violation of the treaty of rome. now, as these farmers have been trying to compete in these unjust and illegal circumstances, they had to take loans – huge loans – to be competitive. now they have become bankrupt, and they have to sell their lands under circumstances of colonialisation where we have to open our lands for countries that have 10 times more gdp than we do. i call for immediate reconsideration of the copenhagen agreement. (the president cut off the speaker.)
freedom of speech, mr. president, including the free choice of language of speech, is a fundamental human right. language is the supreme symbol of the nation, the foundation of our identity. if you think this about your own language, you have to respect the language of every other community. the recent atrocity in slovakia against one of the official languages of the eu, hungarian, is completely contrary to the european spirit. the language law openly discriminates against the right of the half-million hungarian community to use the language, in some cases it can impose a fine of 5000 euros. the union is committed to cultural and linguistic diversity and has appointed a commissioner for multilingualism to this end. the european charter for minority languages, which slovakia has ratified, guarantees the right to use the mother tongue at all levels of education, in public administration, in public service institutions and in official documents. no pillar of the eu institutions can afford to ignore the fact that one member state is openly challenging fundamental european norms and attacking minority rights.
it is a serious blow to the credibility of the european union to speak only about violations outside the union and not to speak about serious violations such as the one that has now occurred in slovakia as a result of the law on the state language, which has created unprecedented tensions between the majority and the minority. the minority language is subordinate to the majority language, as vollebaek, the osce high commissioner for minorities, has stated, and i would like to tell my colleague, boris zalan, that we would be very happy if we did not have to speak here in the european parliament, as this is only a consequence of the fact that a law has been passed in slovakia which discriminates against the hungarian community living there and severely restricts the use of languages. the next commission, mr barroso, will therefore be responsible for creating the forums where these cases are investigated, as leonard orban wrote in his letter, slovakia must respect its international commitments, the framework convention for the protection of minorities and the regional language charter.
madam president, i apologise for my ignorance. i am a human rights lawyer with very little expertise on economic issues, so i have two very basic questions. the first is: is there not a fundamental problem with an economic system in which profit is privatised and the costs and the damages are nationalised and paid by taxpayers, most of whom are poor people – or a lot of them are poor people – who have to pay for the bad decisions of a narrow, rich corporate elite? is there not something fundamentally wrong with this system, and should we not look at the root causes of all that we are talking about today? the second question is – we were talking about discrimination in providing public funds geographically or between nations and states – how about sectors? is it fair that these big corporations get public funds out of taxpayers’ money while small and family entrepreneurs do not? is this not a fundamental violation of the principle of equal opportunities between economic players in the european union?
the rapporteur. − i will speak in my mother tongue because i hope for a europe where this is a natural right in all parliaments and indeed in other areas of public life. in this europe, there is no law that prevents the use of the mother tongue, not even in slovakia. i also hoped that the current financial crisis would not only reduce output and increase unemployment, but that it would also be an opportunity to reform the eu budget. parliament formulated its position in february. it was encouraging that the european commission and the council had made statements in this respect. in the light of the presentation, i am saddened to note that the fine words have not been fully translated into the language of numbers. it is time to face the fact that no one is happy with the union budget. the revenue side of the budget is a major burden for the member states, but the amount available is not sufficient to achieve the objectives. we are far from both full employment and a knowledge-based society. we spend a lot of money on agriculture, but dairy farmers, for example, are in a crisis that is unmanageable. the largest item on the expenditure side is cohesion policy, but disparities between regions are increasing rather than decreasing. researchers born and trained in europe work outside the union, so we are lagging behind in innovation. we hoped that the crisis would also be an opportunity to reorganise our ranks and make the union budget more effective and more visible to citizens. we hoped that we would not only use the budget in a way that was fair and corruption-free, but that we would also consider spending on programs that would really bring value, that would really get our money's worth. what can we do now? parliament will try to shape the budget to send a clearer message to citizens. we want to increase the items that help manage the crisis. in this context, we are presenting our ideas for the implementation of the economic recovery plan. we also want to face the challenges of climate change. we want to ensure that not just a few billion in the budget allocated for this purpose, but almost every item of the budget, is used effectively to deal with the crisis, so that europeans realise that the union is not a waste of money but an effective tool for solving their problems. i ask for the support of the members, the council and the commission.
mr. president, allow me to address you directly, although you are sitting in your seat. your election has been taken as a sign here in parliament that there is no longer an eastern bloc, but a united europe. you said in your speech that there is no longer an old and a new europe, but only our europe. unfortunately, many people do not feel that way, and you also spoke in your speech about the fear that was experienced in the countries that joined in 2004. today, however, he knows the disappointment that can be experienced there. the reason is that there is no equality. the key issue is equality. secretary lindblad mentioned equality as a principle of the budget. if that is so, why is there no equality in agricultural subsidies? hungary has demonstrated that its institutional system is capable of accepting them, yet it is discriminated against. the president encouraged everyone to use their mother tongue. i am happy to be an equal in this parliament as a hungarian, but using my mother tongue would be punished in slovakia. mr. president, we are very grateful for your offer to mediate, but this will only have an objective result if the hungarian minority can use their mother tongue freely in their homeland. i wish you the best of luck with that, too.
mr president, as a hungarian, a friend of poland, a central european, a new member of the eu, it is a great pleasure and satisfaction to have you as president, because it can contribute to the complete emancipation of the 12 new member states, because for the moment we are only equals, but we want to be more equal. your commitment is historic, mr. president, because you are taking on a sensitive issue as a sicilian that has not been taken on before, namely, that you are taking on a mediating role in the affairs of national minorities. in europe, 15% is the minority, 6.5% is the migrant, immigrant minority, predominantly in western europe, and 8.5% is the historical minority. your mediation in the hungarian-slovak conflict and between the slovak majority and the hungarian national community in slovakia is a historic act. i hope the commission will follow suit. you can't sweep the issue of minorities under the carpet in europe. thank you for your attention and i wish you all the best.
on 23 october 2006, hungary commemorated the 1956 revolution and war of independence. on that day, huge police forces controlled by the government attacked peaceful protesters, bystanders, and even a number of foreign tourist groups dining peacefully in restaurants. total terror reigned in the country, with hundreds of people seriously injured, including 14 who were shot in the eye, many of whom lost their sight. hundreds of people have been imprisoned, and criminal proceedings have been instituted against them, which have recently ended - with virtually every one acquitted. the prime minister paid tribute to the excellent work of the police. today, mr president, this european parliament, the libe committee, the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, have a vice-president in the person of göncz kinga, who was a member of this government that is a traitor. i would like to hear the president's opinion on this and i would like to ask him, on behalf of hungary, to be faithful to his spirit of solidarity, to fight for human rights in the european union and to fight to end the human rights crisis that has persisted in hungary since the autumn of 2006, and the person who reminds people of this in this parliament and brings shame to this parliament, to resign as vice-chair of the civil liberties committee.
as a hungarian in romania, in the spirit of solidarity, i congratulate president jerzy buzek, the worthy successor of our former president hansgert pöttering. in the spirit of solidarity, remember that 70 years ago, hungary welcomed polish refugees. in the spirit of solidarity, i am pleased that a key figure from solidarność has taken the helm of this parliament, but let me remind you of pope john paul ii and the dimension of faith. freedom was represented by solidarność, the hungarian revolution of '56, temesvár, the person and spirit of pope john paul symbolizes the power of faith. we expect this contribution from the poles, from eastern europe, and this increase in faith in the accession process, and that is why i look forward to the presidency of mr buzek with confidence.
thank you so much for the opportunity. i am very sorry that this debate is taking place here in the european parliament, but i would like to respond briefly to the fact that the party represented by kristina morvai has created a paramilitary unit since 2006 and through it intimidates the silent majority of society. minorities, gays, roma, and jews. recently, the court dissolved this paramilitary organization, but one of the representatives of this party wore the uniform of this organization at the july meeting here. in hungary, this party campaigned with anti-european, racist, homophobic, anti-smoking, xenophobic demagogy and regularly portrayed hungary as a colony of the european union in its rhetoric. the incident that morvai kristina was talking about happened in 2006, when these far-right protesters set fire to the headquarters of hungarian television, staged a rally for days, injured 113 police officers. on october 23, this randomization was repeated. they tried to disrupt the national holiday by force, indeed. in the post-regime change history of hungary, the police had no experience in handling far-right protests. then the government set up an independent commission, whose report is available on all kinds of websites in english, which made recommendations and otherwise started numerous court cases. the hungarian authorities investigated these abuses. there were indeed problems, but i would just like to say to ms morvai kristina that if she is an apostrofous dictator of her own country's institutional system, the problem is that if democracy did not work in hungary, she would not have been able to make her speech here either. i am sorry that this has happened here in parliament and i sincerely hope that this debate will not continue here.
mr. speaker, by house rules, i can ask a question in half a minute. i ask mr schulz where he gets the courage to call a party in this circle a fascist party based on the slander of a party colleague, just because it does not agree with everything that is the mainstream of the union. this party had 430,000 votes in hungary. you're calling 430,000 voters fascists. you better think about what you're saying.
mr. president, i have to go. europe is at a turning point in its history. millions of people who make a decent living want fundamental change. they want to confront the glaring injustices of neoliberalism and global capitalism. family farmers, small farmers, small business owners, government employees. to do that, human rights are very much needed, and i'm sorry that you're not listening to me now, commissioner, about protecting human rights, civil liberties. so that these people can express their opinions, that is, exercise their freedom of expression, exercise their right to assemble, exercise their freedom of speech, in a way that they cannot be fascisted, as happened in this room today, and they cannot be shot in the face, they cannot be intimidated by police brutality, they cannot be abused, they cannot be imprisoned, they cannot be subjected to conception proceedings. when all this happened in hungary in the autumn of 2006, we asked you to do something. you did nothing. why not? - why not? i would ask the vice-president of the parliament, mr schmitt, to confirm what happened, why we have turned to you, because the party called fidesz, which is a civil party, at its meeting these... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, mr barroso, the hungarian prime minister, in february 2008, six months before the global financial crisis, proposed the establishment of a european institution to monitor and monitor global financial trends. unfortunately, the council and your commission decided to set up this institution only after the outbreak of the world crisis. mr barroso, what is the state of preparation for this institution? when will she start her activities? my second question is that in recent years the commission has achieved nothing in the fight against the dominance of the large chains and has not protected farmers or consumers. can we expect the commission to take concrete and effective measures? my third question is this: there is a deep crisis in the dairy sector all over europe, with very serious social and political consequences. do you intend to change, to revise the commission's neo-liberal policy, which has so far failed completely? my fourth question is: as a presidential candidate, do you intend to establish a mediation mechanism? would you reiterate your intention to give the new commissioner for fundamental rights responsibility for historical national minorities, immigrant minorities and roma?
thank you for the opportunity to speak. i have two questions for president barroso. one was that he clearly linked his political future in his speech to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. does that mean that if you were elected tomorrow and the lisbon treaty were to fail in the irish referendum, you would resign? my second question: you have declared war on national egoism, which by definition arises from anxiety and goes to extremes. my question is: who will decide whether people, organisations or parties are engaged in this harmful activity or whether, as in our case, it is simply a matter of fostering national consciousness, of maintaining the necessary national self-determination, which is the basis for speaking here in europe about national cultures, languages and diversity?
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to assure president barroso of my support as the candidate of the european people's party and express my hope that the current european commission will be able to continue the work started on the social inclusion of roma. important achievements have been made in this cycle, especially in the last two years, but we expect much deeper commitment and more initiative from the body in the future, which as the sole initiator of community legislation can be the driving force in the fight against the misery and exclusion of europe's largest minority, the roma. i hope that the creation of a new commissioner for justice, fundamental rights and civil liberties will encourage the commission to work more and more closely together. i also hope that president barroso will mobilise his repeatedly stated personal commitment to the roma cause and do all he can to ensure a stronger involvement of heads of state and government in order to develop a complex integration agenda across parties and cycles. the social challenges facing both roma and non-roma are so serious and the consequences of inaction so dangerous that we cannot afford the sloppiness and the failures of the previous cycle. we expect immediate and bold action from the new and old presidents, a radical change in attitude and the commission's flagship in the early development of a pan-european roma strategy based on a normative foundation, a solid budget and a clear political commitment.
mr president, the majority of europeans are not corporate leaders and not bankers but family farmers, small entrepreneurs, state employees. the majority of europe is completely fed up with the present system, in which global multinational corporations and banks rule the world. they need, and they want, a fundamentally new paradigm, in which there must be a shift from globalisation to localisation, from completely profit- and money-centred decision-making to human-centred and community-centred decision-making, from wto-ruled free trade agriculture to food sovereignty, local production and local farming. please do not fail to represent at the g20 summit the views of the majority of europe.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! let me approach this from a crisis perspective. in hungary, citizens were shocked that while the country is currently dependent on the imf and eu for aid as a result of 7 years of socialist governance, the half-yearly profit of hungarian banks has reached two-thirds of the pre-crisis level. banks can still unilaterally modify their contracts, putting citizens in a vulnerable position who have taken out foreign currency loans in the hope of getting a house. i believe that such phenomena must be dealt with. we need to put banks and other financial market players under real supervision. let's stop the harmful practice of pre-crisis reward from continuing. let's make ethical rules, because we've seen where over-liberalisation has led. let us create a world that rewards real work, not short-term profit-making and excess, and that values social responsibility as a core value. we need to work together with smart rules to convince our g20 partners.
what we've said so far is clear: to regain the trust of citizens, we need to take action against bonuses, against tax havens. i would like to ask commissioner almunia and minister wallström when the european financial surveillance proposed by the hungarian prime minister will start to operate, and i would like to point out that it would be a very important task - not in the context of the g20 - for this parliament to protect the interests of european consumers, of european citizens. they're completely at the mercy of the banks, and the banks don't give enough credible information. a code of ethics has been developed in hungary. i would suggest that there should be a european code of ethics for citizens and banks at eu level, because i am convinced that there are many innocent victims because citizens do not see the risks of borrowing. this is a very important european task.
in writing. the copenhagen climate negotiations are expected to play a key role at the upcoming g20 summit. there are many unresolved issues that stand in the way of a post-kyoto agreement. let me just say a few words about that. first of all. instead of vague long-term promises, we need binding commitments for the medium term. commitments that are realistic, fair and accountable. in determining these, account should be taken not only of economic development and natural conditions but also of the fulfilment of the kyoto commitments to date. second of all. the eu should also provide financial support to developing countries to help them meet their climate goals. this requires a specific financial offer. however, in the interest of transparency, developing countries should also make binding commitments and develop detailed action plans. third time. flexibility mechanisms should continue to play an important role. in order to facilitate investment, it is necessary to agree as soon as possible on the way in which allowances from existing projects will be counted. fourth time. market-based instruments should be given greater scope in the post-kyoto system. for example, the extension of emissions trading or green certificate schemes can help to achieve emission reductions where they are least costly. i believe that the economic crisis is not an obstacle to the copenhagen compromise. a fair agreement could actually strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy in the medium term, while reducing the environmental burden.
in writing. five years ago, when all new member states joined the eu, they committed themselves to adopting the euro. four of them have now done so. the remaining countries have slipped and fallen behind due to various policy considerations and errors, and have been left vulnerable by the economic and financial crisis. the economic downturn has fuelled protectionist tendencies, which threaten to undermine the functioning of the single market. the current financial crisis has highlighted the prominence of the euro in their close economic ties with euro area members, but the delay in preparing for it has left them in a very vulnerable position. many people, including myself, believe that the key to solving the current currency crisis for these member states is to speed up the introduction of the euro. the economic policy conditions for this must be created, but the introduction of the euro would take years, along the lines of the conditions previously set. i believe that the question should be considered whether, while maintaining the convergence criteria, the eu should be able to apply a more flexible approach to the requirement of mandatory time in erm ii than it currently does, and i consider it very important to consider how, under what conditions, the process of joining the euro area could be accelerated, thereby stabilising the situation of the countries concerned and protecting the eu's internal market as a whole. in more severe cases, the international insolvency of countries not yet in the euro area could also affect the euro area.
in writing. – the baltic sea strategy promoted by the swedish presidency is very welcome. it could readily assume a model function for other european macro-regions, like the danube basin. there is, however, one aspect of the development of the baltic sea region that demands urgent reconsideration. this is the nord stream sea-bed pipeline between russia and germany. not only is the pipeline the source of serious environmental concern, but – even more urgently – it is a project that has been overtaken by time. the future is not in fixed means of delivering natural gas – via pipelines – but through liquefied natural gas. nord stream has every likelihood of being a wholly unnecessary white elephant, and its protagonists should reconsider the project before more money and more resources, effort and energy are tied up in it.
i think it is important that we have reached the moment when we can finally have a serious discussion on the question of visa exemption in relation to the western balkan countries. it is good that these countries are fulfilling their commitments so far and are contributing to the smoothest possible border crossing. as a hungarian representative, i can only support these efforts, because through this, for example in serbia, the connection of the hungarians of the past with the motherland can also become more indirect. for citizens who live on either side of the border, who speak the same language, who share close family and cultural ties, the value of an unhindered, visa-free border crossing cannot be overstated. in this context, there are also forward-looking decisions, even if not closely related to visa-free travel, such as the recently adopted serbian law on the functioning of national councils of minorities. these are major advances in the institutional protection of minorities. the issue of granting visa-free travel is not a purely technical one. this is a very clear political issue. the rights conferred by their national passports and the extent to which they are recognised by the union are an essential part of the political stability of these countries. it would be unacceptable for negative discrimination to persist in the long term between the countries of the region. i would therefore like to call attention to the commission's and the council's primary responsibility in these matters. the union has a political responsibility to offer the western balkan countries a european perspective. help these countries catch up, help them develop and strengthen their democratic institutions, including minority rights.
thank you very much, madam president. i would also like to welcome minister cecilia malmström and commissioner barrot and i am very pleased about this motion, this proposal. as a former hungarian foreign minister, we worked a lot together to get the western balkan countries closer to the european union and to take the next step on the path to accession, and we know that in this respect, visa-free travel is perhaps what people value and feel most, because it opens up for them the path to free movement, to the establishment of human relations, to the establishment of closer ties, and it also helps, perhaps what i think is important for all of us, to keep the motivation of these countries in the very difficult process that accession entails. we know that very serious steps have to be taken, often going beyond traditions that we know are not easy to go beyond. it's very important that three countries get visa-free travel now. i would also like to draw attention to what has been said many times today, that we know that the balance in the western balkan countries is very delicate. ethnic tensions persisted before the war and even more so after the war, and any action must be evaluated in terms of whether it reduces or increases these tensions. in the case of bosnia, as has been said many times, this decision is not only interesting, it is important because bosnia is now excluded, but also because a large part of the bosnian citizens who have croatian or serbian passports, they will be exempt from visas, while the others will not. the same applies to kosovo citizens, who can obtain a passport in serbia and enjoy visa-free travel. i think it's important to re-emphasize that the decision has to be political and not just technical, and that's why we have a responsibility to help these countries get visa-free as soon as possible, within a very tight deadline.
the speakers before me are quite right to argue that the quota and export subsidies should not be reintroduced, but the policy pursued by the commission has been a complete failure. the crisis has not abated, and so my colleague mr le foll and i are proposing that the quotas be frozen immediately, but temporarily. and the new member states are particularly at a disadvantage because of the phasing-in, that we only get 60% of the aid from the brussels envelope this year. to compensate for this, the hungarian government proposed an increase in the quota-based aid, but neither this nor the french proposal, the french ministry's proposal, was positively received by the commission. finally, i ask my colleagues to support the amendments tabled by mr le foll and others and to support the proposal by mrs jeggle to set up a milk fund of eur 600 million and to extend the school milk programme.
mr president ! firefighting measures are clearly needed, as the situation is catastrophic. but couldn't there be something wrong with the foundation? is there anything wrong with the paradigm, the system, in which large quantities of soybeans are imported from latin america, in particular, and the excess supply in europe is further increased, the latin american environment is destroyed, and in the resulting crisis we are still wondering whether agricultural products should be exported to the third world at dumped prices, destroying the market there, the position of farmers and producers there. wouldn't we need a new paradigm, a new logic of food sovereignty, food self-determination, instead of the wto-dictated logic of free trade being imposed on agriculture? my second question is: do we need specific advice, suggestions, how to... (the president withdrew the floor from the member. )
in writing. the main reason for the current crisis in the milk market is the increase in milk quotas. the european commission and the member states' governments are also responsible for the current difficult situation in the dairy sector, having supported the quota increase in 2008, which led to milk surpluses and a collapse in prices. this decision was based on incorrect market forecasts by the european commission. however, the european commission did not abandon its intention when it became clear that the increase in production was contrary to market trends. the european union should therefore immediately withdraw its measures to increase milk production. we also continue to oppose the permanent abolition of quotas after 2015. an important lesson of the current crisis is the need to regulate the milk market. without it, prices become unpredictable. the losses caused by the high volatility of prices are intolerable for european milk producers. i am pleased that the committee on agriculture voted in favour of my proposal to increase export subsidies from 450 million to 600 million euro to alleviate the crisis. without export subsidies, some of the surpluses would remain on the eu internal market, leading to further price reductions.
on 13 july, in ankara, when the nabucco treaty was signed, mr barroso said that the gas pipelines were made of steel, while nabucco was cementing the people involved and was a strategic link between the union and turkey. president putin has declared that everyone will put as many rusty iron pipes in the ground as they want, whatever they have to fill. well, the uncertainty of resources is the biggest problem with this project. what's certain is that the $8 billion investment will be a good deal for those involved. by the way, just as the transit country for russian transportation is ukraine, so could turkey be a problem. and many of us disagree with the idea of turkey being integrated into the european union. the desertec, what is it? north africa, rotary mirrors, solar panels, direct current transmission and 15% of the energy demand. today, it's more of an illusion than a realistic plan. desertec will not be a staple in the diet of eu consumers, but rather a very expensive dessert. so i suggest that we do research to increase the safety of nuclear energy, because it's clean and cheap. and it doesn't matter, because energy security ends with the consumer, with the bill, whether they can pay it.
mr. president, i have to go. first of all, let me thank you for allowing me to speak hungarian in this house, and to thank the vice-president. i would like to start by saying that when we look back over the last five years, commissioner pielbags will probably be one of the most successful commissioners, for the balanced and forward-looking policies that we have adopted together with parliament so far. commissioner pielbags first stated that the european union would provide political and financial support for the nabucco project at the nabucco conference in budapest, hungary, in january. the estimated cost of the 3,300 km pipeline is about 8 billion euros. the two most important tasks that we have to do are to find some 2 billion euros in the budget of the european union, and on the other hand, to develop the conditions under which this project can get credit more easily, more simply, on better terms. the original promise was for about 30 million euros. we need to see that we move on. i am sure that the commissioner will do everything in the next few months, which is still ahead of him, and will leave it to the next commissioner to make this project a success. we all need to know that in an economic crisis, it's not households that are hit first by power outages, energy blackouts, but companies. these are the companies, my fellow congressmen, our voters, our citizens work for, risking their wages by risking our energy security.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! the draft decision refers to the fact that the russian company surgutneftgaz, whose ownership is unclear, recently acquired a significant stake in the hungarian oil company mol. i would like to comment on that. i myself wrote to the commissioner after the transaction and his reply showed that he considered our demand for stronger protection of european energy companies against external acquisitions lacking in transparency to be justified. that's good news. it must be stated, however, that the current rules are not suitable for achieving this objective. the transparency requirements can easily be circumvented. we therefore call on the european commission to step out of its comfortable position of standing by and watching. develop legal frameworks in cooperation with governments for effective protection against hostile takeovers. mr. president, i have to go. the open market is a common european achievement, and we must not allow ourselves to become vulnerable at this point.
i'll close this discussion. i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place today at noon. written declarations (article 149 of the rules of procedure)
my fellow members of the house of representatives! as you have heard from mr. mauro, there has been a tragic event in afghanistan, with the loss of six lives in peacekeeping operations. i respectfully request that we observe a moment of silence in honor of this tragic event. (parliament agreed to the request)
we live in a time, mr. president, when even in rich western countries like france, there are suicides every day, dairy farmers. the tragedy is that i voted in favour of both reports by mr de castro because they require immediate action, such as firefighting. we know, however, that the milk powder, or butter, stored in intervention stocks will be released from intervention and then prices will be depressed again. that's one of my problems. the second is that this measure is much more likely to help large farmers than small ones, and we must not forget that small farmers need immediate help to make a living, while large farmers need it only to secure or increase their profits. we need a fundamental change, to finally move away from the free trade logic dictated by the wto, to allow food self-sufficiency, as advocates before me have said, to food produced locally, by local farmers.
the following is a statement by the commission on the situation in taiwan following the recent typhoon.
i'll close this discussion.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i was informed about the killings of human rights defenders in russia (article 122 of the rules of procedure).
i've spent a quarter of a century protecting human rights. as a lawyer, i have a special and deep sympathy for my colleagues who lost their lives in connection with this mission, this beautiful mission, and i would like to express my sincere condolences to their loved ones and relatives. what would be the proper course of action? demand an immediate and thorough investigation by the authorities of the state concerned. i would like this parliament to have the credibility and moral authority to do so. i'm afraid that's not the case. why would you do that? because we only make such demands against foreign states, and when human rights are grossly violated in a member state of the european union, as in my country, hungary, where tens of thousands of people were shot dead at a mass commemoration organized by the party of the current president, mr pál schmitt, on the anniversary of the 1956 revolution and war of liberation. this case and the crisis that has followed have not been examined by this parliament. i am afraid that until that happens, and until a person who was a member of the caretaker government can be vice-chairman of the parliament's committee on civil liberties and justice, we have no real credit and no moral authority to ask for such an investigation in another state, outside the union. i therefore ask you to take the initiative and demand an immediate investigation into the human rights violations in hungary. thank you, sir.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the president of the court of justice has the right to call for an opinion on the case of mr zovtisz (under rule 122 of the rules of procedure).
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i was informed about the case of muhannad al hassani in syria (under article 122 of the rules of procedure).
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the vote. (for the results of the votes and other details, see minutes)
thank you very much, we'll make a note of that.
i hereby adjourn the session of the european parliament. ( the sitting was closed at 4.45 p.m.
i'd like to ask the honorable member a quick question. the question is: do you think it is consistent with democracy for the irish government to call for a referendum as many times as it wants? how do you assess the austrian prime minister's thinking that he is now for the first time wanting to call a referendum on this issue? do you accept this as democracy or do you call it a hoax like the speaker before you? i'd like to ask you to answer that.
ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i want to thank the irish people. thank you to all the 600,000 brave irish who said no to the dictatorial treaty of lisbon and went to fight for a europe of democracy. whoever is celebrating this repeat referendum is celebrating the death of democracy and the dictatorship of globalism. european politicians should not serve the dictatorship of globalism, but rather deal with the real problems: to eliminate unemployment, to stop mass immigration, to repeal the discriminatory, anti-human venice decrees and the slovak language law, and i ask all my colleagues, all my fellow mps, to support the autonomy aspirations of europe's most disenfranchised minority, the hungarians across the border. jobbik representatives can only support a european union based on national traditions. thank you very much.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! as a member of the european parliament from hungary, the first country to ratify the treaty of lisbon, i welcome the result of the referendum in ireland, but i would very much like to move beyond ratification and to talk about how to implement the treaty of lisbon, which is a huge step towards political union, a community of values, because it greatly extends social rights, and the charter of fundamental rights protects with its legally binding force, making linguistic and cultural diversity a european norm. but there is also a very important novelty to this treaty of lisbon. for the first time in the history of the union, it speaks of the rights of persons belonging to minorities. national and ethnic minorities and immigrant minorities account for 15% of the union's population. we can finally start to build an eu system for the protection of minorities. thank you for your attention.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! when hungarians voted in the spring of 2003 by almost 84 percent to join the european union, they felt they were returning to where they always belonged, to the common family of european peoples from which they had been excluded by more than 40 years of communist dictatorship. the hungarians therefore saw the union not merely as a form of economic cooperation based on legislation, but as a community of values. the approval of the lisbon treaty in ireland is a source of joy for us, because it gives our values a place in the founding treaty, and among those values is now explicitly the recognition of the rights of persons belonging to minorities. that's why i raised my blue card, mr. president, just when congressman segedi was speaking. i wanted to ask him if he had read the treaty of lisbon, because if he had, he would probably have known about the article i quoted about minorities. hungarian citizens hope that once the treaty enters into force, the union will become more responsive to minority issues and that cases like the slovak language law will be made unacceptable once and for all. it is not only the letter of the law but also the spirit of the union that should make everyone feel that it is the common concern of all european citizens that minorities should be able to use their mother tongue freely and without restrictions and feel at home in their native land. i am convinced that the lisbon treaty will also help us to gain a better understanding of the union's institutions, of the need to protect our values within the union and to take automatic action against any violation of them. there can be no double standard, my dear socialist, liberal and independent members: we refer to values when our interests dictate them, we forget them when they are more advantageous. this is not the europe the people's party wants.
the supporters of the lisbon treaty are celebrating not just a victory, but a victory for democracy, claiming that a rigged referendum has now said yes. but the score is 3 to 1 in favor of the sexes. we must not forget that the french and dutch peoples have rejected a constitutional treaty whose content is identical. and then we had this creative, but cynical idea: if the people of europe don't accept this constitution, let's call it a reform treaty, and then let the political elite vote it through the parliaments. unfortunately, the hungarian parliament was the first to do so. i believe that many people think that the treaty of lisbon is the way to prosperity for the peoples of europe, but they are increasingly not entitled to say that this was the will of the peoples of europe.
in writing. i would like to welcome the outcome of the irish referendum, which opens the way to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and thus to the creation of a more democratic and more solidarity-based european union. i would like to stress that the treaty gives national parliaments greater influence and refers to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, while maintaining and strengthening the binding force of the document on human and minority rights. this is particularly important for hungary, as the prohibition of discrimination against persons belonging to national minorities enshrined in the charter is a very important signal both for hungarians across the border and for minorities in hungary. in times of global economic stagnation, it is particularly important to recognise that for a medium-sized country like ireland or hungary, a strong and effective european cohesion can be a way out of the crisis.
mr president, as a human rights lawyer with almost a quarter of a century of experience internationally and at home in hungary, i take every opportunity to emphasise the need for the european union to defend human rights, preferably across the world. but it is extremely important to do it in a credible way and, in order to do so, we have to defend human rights within our borders as well, within the european union system. as i have mentioned to you several times during the last three months, mrs kinga göncz, a member of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in this parliament, used to be a member of a government which we call in hungary the ‘eye-shooter’ government, who were shooting at people on the streets of budapest on 23 october 2006. ever since then there has been a human rights crisis in hungary, and this european union does not do anything about it. we have a vice-chair of the committee on civil liberties who was a member of the government at that time. until we look seriously into this matter, nobody will think that anything we do in the human rights fields is credible.
mr president, there was a lot of talk today about the lisbon treaty and how it strengthens solidarity among europeans. on behalf of the hungarian people, i would like to call for your solidarity now because, according to reliable information from human-rights-sensitive, high-ranking members of the hungarian police, on the third anniversary of so-called bloody monday in 2006 (23 october), the hungarian police will again use massive violence against the hungarian people during our demonstrations or commemorations. i would like to call on members of the european parliament to come to our aid and to come to budapest on that day as human rights observers. i would like your constituencies to ask you to do that, too. please do your research on the internet about the human rights abuses and mass police brutalities in hungary and make sure that it can never happen again. please come and exercise the solidarity that has so often been mentioned today.
slovak language law. the slovak language law has raised serious concerns since its adoption. the past few weeks have shown that the concerns were justified, because the fines provided for in the law have not been applied so far, and those working in the jurisdiction of state bodies have been instructed to speak only in slovak. postmen, firefighters and police officers whose native language is hungarian may not use their native language during their working hours. so, if i call a policeman in slovakia in hungarian, he is obliged to answer in slovak, even though his mother tongue is hungarian, and it is completely independent of whether i understand his answer. by the way, it's the same when i'm trying to learn english. i propose a new advertisement for the slovak hospitality industry: foreign tourists, welcome in slovakia, but learn slovak before you set foot in our country. long live the absurd!
mr. president, i'm sorry to say that ms. beňová has made some untrue statements. five hungarian youths have been imprisoned in serbia for five years now as a result of a brawl in a barber shop in temerin, in the south of the country. they were given sentences ranging from ten to fifteen years. they were sentenced to a total of 61 years for using their case for nationalist election propaganda. such severe punishments for war crimes committed in the balkan wars were never inflicted on anyone. in the same period, some 300 hungarians were beaten without consequence in serbia. the ratio is 300 to 1. in january 2005, the european parliament sent a fact-finding mission to serbia. the human rights committee's report on the brutal hungarian beatings has been awaiting your consideration ever since. i ask the house, mr. president jerzy buzek, to release the temerini boys from prison. the eu has made the enforcement of non-discriminatory justice a precondition for serbia's accession and the apprehension of the real culprits, serbian war criminals, instead of targeted sentences with a deterrent effect.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! there's been a lot of talk today about minority issues. i would like to mention a positive example, because it is positive for the whole european union, for the whole of europe, that serbia has adopted a law on cultural autonomy, which is unique in the whole of europe. that the thirteen minorities, slovaks, romanians, hungarians and others, can directly elect their national councils, this is financed by the budget and these national councils can take over, in the name of cultural autonomy, they can hold the institutions themselves. and the lesson is that the minority was included in the design of this. serbia can serve as an example for many eu countries, france, slovakia and others, in how to guarantee the rights of minorities in law, and serbia has made great strides on the path of european integration.
earlier, we talked a lot about minorities, and i want to draw your attention to the fact that there are 50 million disabled people in the european union. i consider them the largest minority. they are the ones who are hit hardest by the financial crisis, and i want to emphasize that they are the people who are always the first to lose their jobs, their income, their livelihood, their standard of living, and the social organizations that represent them are also increasingly receiving less and less support. the biggest lesson of the current crisis is that it's worth investing in people, and separately, rather than in other investments. political and economic decision-makers have a responsibility to pay attention to people with disabilities. i ask you to do everything in your power to ensure that they are treated equally by you, and i stress this because 50 million people can be a very powerful force in the european union, and we are interested in social equality.
madam president, passengers’ compensation in the case of airline bankruptcies is not only a question of money. it is related to even more serious issues such as safety, accessibility of services and competitiveness. in times of crisis, every economic field is in a precarious situation, and airline transport is no exception to that. it is crucial not to let people’s confidence in the operators waver, because this would lead to a considerable decrease in demand and thus would weaken even more the financial situation of airlines. this may influence europe’s whole economic situation and competitiveness. passengers’ compensation is also in relation to the accessibility of services. i believe that every person in europe must have the choice to travel by air if he or she so wishes. for this you must admit that we need safe but low-cost airlines that are affordable for everyone. these airlines should have a stable financial background, because safety does not only mean safety in case of an accident but also implies that, if i purchase an air ticket, i should be confident that by the time of the trip there will actually be an aeroplane to take me to my destination. all this gives our oral question its importance, and the fact that there have been almost 80 airline bankruptcies europe since 2000 gives it urgency. the need for a clear regulation in this field is evident. therefore, i would kindly ask the commissioner to seriously consider this matter and come up with a viable solution as soon as possible.
in writing. changes in travel habits have led to an increase in the number of people travelling on their own, avoiding the services of travel agents. as a result, the charter airlines have been the winners in terms of both revenue and market share over the last decade. my fellow members of parliament! earlier, the series of bankruptcies of travel agencies caused serious problems in hungary, and we regularly saw images of forgotten families abroad on television. we cannot allow the next wave of bankruptcy to sweep through the timber companies, causing millions of dollars in damage to the economy and to the passengers. not to mention the security risks involved in not having a secure financial backing for a company. therefore, we should focus on the following objectives: consider tightening corporate governance: require additional capital and organisational guarantees for airlines; ensure that the financial and operational reporting regime, the frequency of random checks are tightened; the size of the sector justifies regular european data surveys to examine airline policies, complaint handling mechanisms, ease of refunds; further simplify the handling of cross-border complaints in similar cases in the future. to build a truly consumer-centred single market in europe, we need to make the handling of cross-border complaints and claims more efficient!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, we must defend the values of freedom together, as we heard from president verhofstadt an hour ago, and i must say that i agree with president verhofstadt. freedom of speech is an important fundamental right - as we've discussed. i agree with that, and i'm convinced that there is no italian politician in this room who would want to restrict freedom of speech. but listening to the debate, two questions came to mind. why is it that only in the case of certain rights and only on certain occasions is it important for socialists and liberals to protect certain political fundamental rights? is the right to assembly an important fundamental right? is there a fundamental right as important as freedom of speech? yes, i did. three years ago, you didn't protest when the hungarian socialist government broke up the crowd celebrating the 1956 revolution. is the right to use language an important fundamental right? is there a fundamental right as important as freedom of speech? yes, it is important. you are not protesting now when you want to restrict the right of minorities to use their language in slovakia, a member state of the european union. is the protection of privacy an important fundamental right? yes, it is a fundamental right. i think that everyone - whether the italian prime minister or any of us - has the right, should have the right to go to court against false accusations, slander. freedom of the press is indeed an important right, but then why have you been silent for the last 20 years when it was obvious that in the former socialist countries there is a huge concentration of media in the hands of the former communist parties. i ask you to measure with the same standard.
madam president, i supported this report because i think that there is a need for a new paradigm in the world – a new paradigm in which we shift from completely money- and profit-centred decision-making to human being- and community-centred decision-making, and from the logic of competition to the logic of justice. i see this report as a seed at least. i am not saying that it fully supports the new paradigm, but it at least contains the seeds of a new paradigm, in particular in paragraph 2, which states ‘believes that there is an urgent need for radical policy reform to address the systemic causes of the food and financial crisis by putting in place new democratic, transparent regulations for international trade as well as for the international financial system’. i do believe, and hope, that we take this very seriously. there are fundamental causes of this crisis, and we really need to look at those causes systematically and radically. we need a radically new paradigm.
mr. president, members of the house of representatives, three years ago, on october 23, 2006, tens of thousands of people gathered in budapest to commemorate the 1956 hungarian revolution and the freedom struggle our people fought against the communist dictatorship. three years ago, a peaceful commemoration was broken up by unidentified terrorists in police uniforms using prohibited weapons, presumably at the political behest of the party that succeeded the communist dictatorship. after 1956, 50 years later, hungarian blood flowed again in the streets of budapest. this week, on friday, october 23, at 3 p.m., thousands will once again commemorate 1956 in deák square. we, the meps from jobbik, together with several of our colleagues, such as andreas mölzer and bruno gollnisch, will ensure the physical safety of the commemorators on the spot, but i would ask the ep to send observers and i would specifically ask mr buzek to warn the hungarian police leaders to comply with the european convention on human rights.
mr president i protested against religious fanaticism and the persecution of minority crosses last year, and i'm doing it again this year. in view of the recent anti-christian acts in india, bangladesh, afghanistan, pakistan and turkey, may i once again speak out against the continued atrocities in the name of religious exclusiveness, which are being perpetrated against our brothers, mostly by muslim and hindu fanatics. in india, however, both christians and muslims are severely persecuted in the states of orissa and gujarat. in my homeland of transylvania, romania, religious freedom was proclaimed by the council of torod in 1568. religious freedom is both an individual and a collective human freedom. i want mercy and not sacrifice, jesus says. in the spirit of our faith, i ask mr. jerzy buzek, the human rights committee, the european commission, to... ( the chairman has withdrawn the speaker. )
in writing. schengen cooperation can take many forms. there are a lot of requests to be highlighted, put under a magnifying glass. here and now - i think - as a member of the european parliament, it is worth mentioning that a well-functioning schengen system, based on mutual trust, is one of the basic conditions for the free movement of persons. border controls, our common visa policy, cross-border police cooperation, data protection issues are just elements of this whole thing. different issues, but all linked by an important link: european citizens have been given, and are getting, an extra freedom every day that symbolizes for them one of the most tangible results of the european union's existence. i can say this with confidence as the representative of the electorate of a member state which joined a few years ago. without the proposal of the portuguese presidency of the eu, the new member states would not be part of the schengen system as the new (second) generation of the schengen information system is still not operational. the preservation of this freedom - and this is what the two items on the agenda are about - places a responsibility on the commission and the member states. the european parliament shares this responsibility and therefore cannot afford to be left out of the question of citizens' freedoms. i therefore strongly support the rapporteur's work and agree with his proposals.
mr president there are differing opinions about the extent of human influence on climate change. i'm assuming that this influence exists and that the copenhagen climate conference is about reducing it. i believe that the outcome will be decided by the political dimension. how do you get the biggest polluters to commit to reducing emissions? the strong message from europe is not that we have reduced by 20 percent, but by 30 percent, 40 percent. we need to get the global polluting power, the united states, to reduce this massive pollution. a proposal for such an amending decision was made in the committee. there was a lot of optimism that barack obama would make a big change in his personality and go to copenhagen. yes, he's gone to campaign for the ioc meeting outside chicago. it failed. european union leaders often speak for 500 million people when they don't have to. the question is why they don't dare to take a more decisive step now, because only then can we achieve results on a global issue, not on a local level.
madam president! one of the key issues at the upcoming copenhagen climate summit could be forestry. this is no coincidence, for deforestation accumulates more harmful gases in the air than, say, the cost of transportation. the desperate situation is illustrated by the fact that it is estimated that nearly 40 percent of the world's timber is illegally harvested. deforestation is primarily about the tropics, but we don't have to go that far. a recent study found that one third of the wood used in hungary comes from illegal logging. and so, because of the lack of sanctions, the apparent gains in renewables are actually partly masking illegal logging and logging. for these reasons, the requirements for sustainable forest management should be strengthened. the copenhagen climate summit could create the opportunity for forest management to become an integral part of climate protection systems.
in writing. a global, ambitious and comprehensive agreement is needed in copenhagen to make the fight against climate change effective. the question of financing has become a cornerstone of the copenhagen accord. all countries should contribute to the financing of the fight against climate change, in accordance with their capabilities and economic potential. the european union has a significant role and commitment to finance the climate agenda and is estimated to support developing countries, and its annual funding requirement of €5.7 billion for the period 2010-2012 is estimated to place a significant burden on both the eu budget and national budgets. in the latter case, however, i consider it important that the economic potential and limits of the ability of each member state to deliver are taken into account in the allocation of the financial burden arising from the european union's future international climate finance commitments. i am also convinced that all european citizens must do their part to fight climate change, and that this requires comprehensive energy saving campaigns.
in writing. today, it is clear that greenhouse gases, primarily carbon dioxide, are by far the greatest threat to the earth. but what seems to be an ideological debate among the political elite today is actually the one that defines the limits of economic opportunity and development, the investment of the future. when we talk in the european parliament about climate change and preparing for the copenhagen conference, we must not forget that by adopting the third energy package and the climate package, we have laid the foundations for a european energy policy that, while enhancing competitiveness and strengthening security of supply, prioritises energy efficiency, environmentally friendly energy production and the protection of consumer interests. the third energy package on the market side and the climate package on the regulatory side created the opportunity to bring new investors, new players to the european energy market. and this is the key to europe's climate change policy, the copenhagen goals. we need new investments in energy, new innovative technologies, new players. because significant reductions in co2 emissions, both at european and global level, can only be achieved by developing and deploying new technologies. recent european decisions make this possible. we have to keep going down this road.
i'm holding a press conference tomorrow at 3:00 on the human rights crisis that has persisted since 2006. i am pleased to call and welcome the president and all my colleagues. according to the national law enforcement service, a very large number of final judgments prove that in the autumn of 2006, there was brutal police terror in hungary, especially on october 23, the 50th anniversary, when the government-controlled police shot 14 people in the eyes or blinded many of them, and hundreds of people were innocently imprisoned and tortured as political prisoners there. mr president, are you aware that the deputy chairman of the libe committee, the committee on civil liberties, göncz kinga, was a member of this government, and what is your opinion on this? it is with love and respect that i call you and look forward to your press conference tomorrow.
so, i take it that freedom of assembly, freedom of expression, human rights and the european convention on human rights are not part of european union law? is the european union not committed to human rights as part of its values and legal system? because i guess i knew wrong then.
mr. chairman of the committee! the european commission has reduced the wage subsidy for disabled people to 75% of the maximum under regulation 800/2008. as a result, as of 1 january 2009, the employment of disabled people and of people with altered working capacity has been in crisis. budgetary constraints have therefore greatly reduced the resources available to people with disabilities. and so the group's public support for job creation in many countries, including hungary, was put at risk. they say it's the european union's fault. i have a question. how does the european commission intend to deal with the employment rights, retention of employment and equal pay for equal work of people with disabilities in the context of the financial crisis? it's a regulation that was created before the crisis.
i would like to thank mr barroso. the global financial crisis, which started in the united states, has spread to the real economy, causing the loss of millions of jobs and creating a social crisis. the european union is trying to take action in the case of a group like opel, and if a plan is presented, it can be direct assistance. but most of the jobs are in small and medium-sized enterprises, and they create jobs. do you think, mr. president, that the measures that are helping them are sufficient? hungary is in a particularly difficult situation, there are only foreign commercial banks. in this case, is direct state aid the economic nationalism you have declared to be against, or, if so, would market dogmatism be abandoned?
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i will speak my native language because ceterum censeo, i also protest against any law restricting the use of my native language. the 2010 budget is being drawn up in the shadow of the financial crisis. mr secretary of state, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow officers. this is a crisis we all have to deal with in some way. the crisis has destabilized investors, made it difficult to borrow, increased unemployment, and reduced production. can the european union answer that? do you have a say in the threats posed by climate change, terrorism? are you capable of protecting the union's borders? do you accept refugees with the dignity they deserve? parliament wants a budget that answers these questions in the affirmative, and parliament is quite united in its desire to do so. there are no major differences between the groups, and for that i am grateful to all the groups in this parliament as rapporteur. the major difference is between the council and the parliament. the council wants the smallest possible budget because of the crisis, and this is understandable given the position of the national parliaments and national governments. but we in parliament believe that parliament has a lot of tools at its disposal which should be used more effectively, more efficiently and more vigorously, precisely in order to overcome the crisis. what does that mean in numerals? at the time when we were thinking about 2010, the seven-year budget, a decision was made that would allow, in the current situation, a budget of 134 billion at the level of payments. the council, on the other hand, is thinking of 120 billion, and parliament does not consider it realistic to use 134 billion, takes account of the problems of national governments and will conclude on a proposal of 127 billion if the vote on thursday follows the recommendation of the committee on budgets. we have to ask, of course, what is the point of making promises in a five-year cycle, a seven-year cycle, if those promises are never kept. because it's really the case that every year the annual budget is much smaller than what we were talking about at the time. but there's an even bigger problem. the annual budgets contain commitments, which remain largely unfilled. today we are more than a year behind on our budget, and every year that gap is growing. it is therefore imperative that payment levels be increased. the council is cutting the commission's draft and parliament is giving higher figures. but i want to point out that that's not entirely true. these proposals were not made in a row, not mechanically, not with a scissor stroke. the crisis is making everyone a bit more cautious, so we've been supporting the council's more frugal numbers in the budget committee on certain procurements. elsewhere, for example, in the case of the manpower assigned to each task, we also took into account how the task was carried out. however, it is easy to make mistakes in this area, and if we have made mistakes, we do not want to impede the implementation of the programmes. if such a phenomenon occurs during the year, we will always be ready to make corrections, but we insist on good execution and accurate planning. we need to examine whether the money spent has brought the benefits we expected, whether we have achieved the goal we set for ourselves. for example, information policy is hard to be satisfied with, but the reasons for the lost referendums, the low voter turnout, can be much more complex. it would therefore be wrong to restrict the sources of information. we have suggested some reserve training on certain lines, which can easily be released the moment a promising communication strategy is drawn up on the basis of the analyses already under way. in the future, we will also have to pay more attention to the extent to which our objectives have been achieved. the court of auditors recently published a study on the efficiency of the dairy sector and its problems. parliament expects the commission to outline the operation of the milk fund in the next letter of amendment, and we consider that this requires a separate budget line and an appropriate amount of reserve. a legal basis should be established which takes account of the court's observations and effectively contributes to solving the current problems of the sector. so it's not just about money, it's about better and more accurate eu support for the sector. that is why i ask my colleagues to try to pass a good and effective budget with as little fighting as possible. we have our differences, it's natural. some factions have their own opinions, their own profile, and that's natural. but we'll agree on the most important things. the milk fund is much more important than the amount of money that will be spent. the committee on budgets has proposed a manageable amount. thank you for your kind attention.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. − madam president, it has become quite evident in the last few years that the institutions of the european union are much less familiar to the citizens of europe than should be the case. the european union is a democratic body, so that contact with the citizens is in the interests of both. what the european union does, and why, should be fully known to the citizens. the citizens are stakeholders in what is done by the eu, and clearly the european union is a stakeholder in european public opinion. there are various ways of ensuring that this mutual interest is given expression. communication is one of these, and an important one, and it is for this reason that the budget should include an element devoted to the communication of its activities by the european union to the wider public.
the rapporteur. i would like to address my remarks to the council, even if the secretary of state had to leave. i totally agree with what you said about the problem. i fully agree with the fact that he has been very concerned about many things which parliament also considers important, such as education, research and so on. there's a lot of agreement on the goals. there's a lot of distance in the devices. we'll have to figure this out by mid-november. the commissioner mentioned that he was grateful for the steps taken by parliament to try to restore the lines in the commission's preliminary budget. i ask you to understand that in some lines this is not happening, as i mentioned that we were trying to take a position in the shadows. i must mention, however, some of the points made in the debate with which i cannot agree. i cannot accept the idea that in the name of solidarity we call theft the money that goes from one donor country to another beneficiary country. i don't think that's what this is about. this union is built on solidarity between its members, and i know of a donor country whose leaders say that enlargement has increased their income substantially because they have access to a huge market. the european union cannot be measured by the ratio of expenditure to payments. it's false, it's misleading, and it's ruining our entire future together. i would also like to remind my colleagues that some of you have been very enthusiastic about certain proposals in the past, saying: we have raised it, we have put it up, and so it will be. what we are voting on thursday is a draft and a political message, the political message of how this parliament wants to lead the european union to better waters. and i ask the council to take note that what the rapporteur is representing is not an individual opinion, not the opinion of his party, and not just the opinion of the committee on budgets. so many people spoke here from different committees, different political families, and the message was the same, we need a better, smarter, stronger budget. my time is up. thank you for your kind attention.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i would like to welcome the continuation of the pilot programme for the social inclusion of roma proposed by the european parliament in 2009 in the 2010 community budget. the european commission's regional policy directorate-general launched a call for proposals for the programme at the end of july, which aims to develop innovative and complex solutions to address the complex problems facing roma communities. the project's stated objective is to develop measures that can promote the integration of roma, based on existing experience, through educational, social and economic measures, cross-border cooperation and the sharing of good practices. as originally proposed by the european people's party, the programme focuses on the development of early childhood education, on the one hand, and the promotion of self-employment and the provision of micro-credit, on the other. the pilot project will also provide information and awareness-raising campaigns. the project will hopefully provide an opportunity to outline the guidelines of the community action plan on roma social inclusion and, by expanding on ideas that have proven workable, will contribute to the development of a normative community action plan that goes beyond the currently available tools.
it must be mrs. of course i'll vote yes, even though i know this charity donation won't solve anything for the farmers. i have three questions, though. one: what is the lesson for you in this crisis? did he learn any lessons? this crisis, madam commissioner, was not caused by some natural disaster, a tsunami or something like that, but by a series of bad decisions and a fundamentally flawed agricultural policy, agricultural policy. what can you promise farmers for the future? how will they avoid a similar crisis in the future? i'd like to hear your firm and detailed answer to that. my next question: you said yesterday at the hearing in the committee that the member states were free to use this amount. what does that mean exactly? can the member states distribute this money fairly, not to agribusiness, not to big business, but to small farmers, to family farmers, who are the most needy, who depend on it for their livelihood? they are the ones who are most severely affected, and the other large group is the farmers in the new member states, especially the small farmers. how do you want to eliminate the intolerable discrimination that results from the fact that we, for example the hungarians, have had to give 100% of our markets to the european union and have received a fraction of the subsidies? how and when will they correct this injustice and lawlessness?
in writing. i welcome the measures taken by the european commission to help european milk producers. however, these measures can only alleviate the crisis, but they cannot end it. this would require the decisions on milk quota increases to be withdrawn. but the european commission, and mariann fischer boel herself, still refuse to admit that they made a mistake. i agree with the european farmers' demand that the quota increase be withdrawn. i am also against the abolition of the quota system in 2015. i agree with the view of the largest european business organisation, copa-cogeca, that the milk market needs to be regulated beyond 2015. an important lesson of the current crisis is the need to regulate the milk market. without it, prices become unpredictable. the losses caused by the high volatility of prices are intolerable for european milk producers. with regard to the current emergency measures, i would point out that the increase in de minimis aid from eur 7500 to eur 15000 may cause problems in member states in a more difficult budgetary situation. he fears that in these countries, like hungary, the governments will not provide maximum support, and therefore farmers in these countries may be at an even greater competitive disadvantage. i hope that the european parliament will support the amendment tabled by me and others to increase support for the school milk scheme in the vote on the 2010 budget on thursday.
in writing. i welcome the agreement in principle reached at the agriculture ministers' meeting in luxembourg on the eur 280 million of specific support for the dairy sector. at the eu level, this is an additional subsidy of one eurocent per litre of milk, which is very small. after months of stiff resistance, the european commission has given little in to the pressure from farmers and the 21 member states, including hungary, and the european parliament, who already demanded additional resources for the sector at their informal meeting in brussels last monday. despite the delay in the eu measures, the hungarian government has acted quickly in favour of dairy farmers and has done everything possible to help them within budgetary limits. hungary has used 100% of the rural development funds and the amounts transferable under the european economic development programme to assist the dairy sector. latvia and malta are the only other countries with such excellent figures. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market on the basis of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the hungarian government is free to decide how it will use it, the commission has only proposed that the exceptional aid be used to help the most deprived producers, which is consistent with the hungarian objectives. the payment of the amount may take place at the beginning of next year, following the approval of the 2010 budget.
my dear mr swoboda! you mentioned that the czech republic was told at the time of accession that it did not need to worry about the beneš decrees, as they were not in force. do you know that the serious consequences of this decree are still valid, so if there is a rule of law here, and we consider the whole of europe to be one, then certainly in this respect the czech republic has things to do with both the sudeten germans and the hungarians.
mr. president, members of the house of representatives, madam president, i have to ask you to leave. any discussion on the signing of the lisbon treaty is pointless until we have clarified our most fundamental values. let me give you a few examples of europe's largest disenfranchised minority, the hungarians across the carpathian basin. for example, do they know that in a european union member state, the territorial self-determination of two million hungarians in europe is still not on the agenda, whereas we all know that territorial autonomy is a european legal institution. do you know that in the same country, romania, tens of thousands of hungarian cangos are still unable to pray or study in their native language? and here is another state younger than me, the slovak case, the slovak language law case, which can rightly be called the shame of europe. and on top of all that, there are some vile politicians who use the anti-human beneš decrees as a basis for negotiation. what kind of dictatorial, racist europe are we living in, where the beneš decrees can be considered as a bargaining chip? we are tired of dictatorships being imposed on us, always hiding behind the mask of democracy. we, the better politicians, want to live in a europe without beneš decrees, without a slovak language law, without a lisbon treaty, where no hungarian is persecuted because of his origin or mother tongue. and i would ask mr. swoboda, if you say that the beneš decrees are not in force, when were the damages paid?
my fellow members of the house of representatives! some reports say that there is a discussion about how to please the president of the czech republic, klaus, by somehow including the beneš decrees in the lisbon treaty. i would very much like to protect ourselves from this legal twisting and legal nonsense for three reasons. first, i believe that we would be setting a dangerous precedent, that any public authority would feel that they could intervene in a contract after the fact, and as we see, that's a dangerous thing, because the slovak government has already said that if klaus did, they would want to do it. so i think that would be a dangerous precedent. secondly, it is wrong to refer to the irish example. the irish were asking for things that were originally in the lisbon treaty, and they were asking for things that were not in the treaty, so there was no legal obstacle to their request. thirdly, the content of the beneš decrees, 13 of the 143 decrees which deprived hungarians and germans of their rights, and i think that the union cannot allow such a document to be invoked.
in writing. we hope that the european council at the end of october will remove the last obstacles to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. that agreement has the potential to encourage more effective union decision-making in a number of respects. and i want to highlight one of those, and that is energy security. it is a step forward to include energy policy in a separate chapter of the eu treaty, as has not been the case in the past. based on the developments of the past few years, i believe that the new chapter sets out good guidelines for the eu's energy policy. the objectives to be supported are improving energy efficiency, promoting renewables and connecting networks. as a representative from a new member state, i am particularly pleased that the concept of solidarity is included in the new energy chapter. the lisbon treaty, however, does not provide a solution, at least in the field of energy policy. the introduction of the new chapter is more of a warning: urgent action is needed to reduce europe's dependence and to ensure that environmental considerations prevail. the lisbon treaty itself is not a guarantee of anything, but an opportunity. the opportunity for member states to strengthen the foundations of the common eu energy policy, recognising their own interests. the development of alternative transport routes, the interconnection of networks and the protection against external takeovers are all things that cannot be imagined in the future without the necessary political commitment and cooperation of the member states.
mr president, i would like to remind the house that the european parliament should not accept resolutions which apply double standards. this is why i am quoting an example from my country – from hungary – where the finance minister filed criminal proceedings against a journalist because he did not like what he was writing about him. this is why i think that mentioning the italian prime minister in your text filing lawsuits against italian and european newspapers and not mentioning this case – i think what happened in hungary is more serious – applies a double standard. so i would call on our colleagues on the left here not to vote against this amendment because that would only demonstrate and make clear that your activity is nothing but a show – a show bullying the prime minister of a country where there is no left. (applause) the government is not from your family, but you do not accept the same standards when there is a socialist government. so the amendment follows along the right lines. (applause)‘whereas the european parliament shall not accept double standards; whereas, in order to put political pressure on journalists disclosing corruption cases linked to high-ranking officials and ruling party politicians, the government administration in hungary has recently introduced steps to launch criminal proceedings against such members of the media;’ – namely mr tamás pindroch, the journalist from the magyar hírlap – ‘whereas bearing in mind in particular that criminal proceedings were launched against the journalist who was investigating the scandals of a high-ranking former member of the government and one of the candidates for european commissioner; whereas this has resulted in an atmosphere where the press is under political pressure in hungary’. i ask you to support this amendment in order to keep your credibility. it might make it clear that you are not bullying a particular person whom you do not like and who does not share your political views but you really are supporting the freedom of the press in europe.
to those lying forces in hungary who claim that jobbik has no role in the european parliament and that it could not have depended on the vote of the three-member hungarian jobbik delegation that the condemnation of italy by unjust, discriminatory forces could not have happened here today, let me say this first. secondly, we did not do this on the basis of party discipline but on the basis of the criterion of justice, and in particular because of the double standard that was being used, since yesterday i complained to mr barroso that the socialist-liberal government in hungary had violated freedom of expression not by concentrating the press and media, but by gouging out eyes, imprisoning people, torturing people in prison, and a series of conception procedures, and mr barroso said that this was an internal matter. how can this be internal, and italy's not? jobbik will not allow such double standards in this parliament.
mr president, as we all know, the european external action service is one of the major innovations proposed by the lisbon treaty. therefore we have to be very careful and responsible during its setting-up. we all agree that it should start functioning as soon as the lisbon treaty is in force. the commission and the council are already working on the guidelines which they are expected to present to the european council meeting at the end of this month. it is therefore essential that the european parliament influences this process. today’s debate and the resulting resolution are of the utmost importance because we have to send a very clear message now as proof of political consensus on the setting-up of the service to the council and to the european commission. i am very proud of my colleague’s work, which is the result of cross-party deliberations in this house. we insist that the community model in the union’s external relations is preserved. the members are keen to have the service attached to the european commission and part of the overall community budget. the eeas should form part of the commission administratively and budget-wise, and should formally be a part of the commission as a sui generis body attached to the commission structure. the budgetary commission is extremely important. it is a lever with which the ep can exercise its power. in this way parliament should, and will, exercise budgetary control and democratic scrutiny over it. there are many issues to cover, for example the clear division of tasks within the eeas and the responsible european commission units – taking into consideration that we do not know yet the structure of the future commission – and the relation between the high representatives and the different union representatives abroad, but this resolution will be the first position of the european parliament from which the further steps will follow. we should not forget about the human factor either. the high representative should be a person of merit, expertise and excellence, supported by the commission, council and national diplomatic services. i am convinced the institutional set-up of the eeas must include gender architecture that duly reflects the commitments made by the union with regard to gender mainstreaming. last but not least, as a person who has been working for women’s equal political representation over the last 15 years, i would be glad if this person were a woman.
mr president, i too would like to add my voice to those who support the brok report and also to express my fascination for the paranoia that has come from that side of the house. the external action service is, without any doubt, a potentially major element in the promotion of coherence in the eu’s relations with the rest of the world. these relations are often wide-ranging, complex and have a significant impact on the world outside europe. it is vital, therefore, that these activities are thoroughly coordinated in order to ensure that eu policies have the impact that they were designed to have. indeed, once the external action service is up and running, it will affect the eu’s stance, for example, on the common foreign and security policy, as has already been noted, the promotion of the democracy agenda, human rights, channelling of aid, and dealing with the multi-faceted issues of development. the question of coherence is central in this context. if different parts of the european union place different emphases on policy issues, the impact will be muted and will very likely have unintended consequences. consistency is pivotal in this connection. the external action service will, in the light of this, have a considerable responsibility in working together with all the other institutions of the european union that have an external dimension. clearly, the effectiveness of the service will necessarily structure the work of the high representative but, in the medium term, its work will resonate throughout all the institutions of the european union. it is a two-way process. when seen from this perspective, it is essential that the service should be accountable, obviously to the high representative but also, more broadly, to parliament itself. the service will, at the end of the day, represent the european union in all its aspects, hence the emphasis on accountability, transparency and coherence.
mr president the question that is being asked here, and we are really talking about, is whether, following the path set out in the treaty of lisbon, there will be a superstate initiative, or close institutional cooperation between 27 countries. this is the question that constitutional courts are still debating and trying to decide. the european union's flag was raised and the union's anthem played, with military honours, before the first meeting in strasbourg. hymn, your flag is for state, not cooperation. we're hearing here that we're sending an ambassador to the world. we hear europe speak with one voice. we disagree with this, we see the future of europe in a different way. that does not make us paranoid, that is the word of the tolerant, that is why we want a europe that is different from the majority.
in addition to military honors, the flags of other nations are not raised with the playing of an anthem. if you think the european union is acting on the level of a football team, it means that you have a particular opinion about what should be the club of not fanatics gathering under one flag - perhaps you are a fanatic supporter - but a group of people with different opinions.
mr president, it is really interesting to hear how some members are very irritated by this famous one voice being challenged and the whole status quo being challenged. i call upon and invite the citizens of europe who elected us to be here to listen to this conversation through the transparency of the internet and give their opinions about all these things we are talking about. i wanted to raise another issue, however, i recalled during the discussion when mrs ferrero-waldner visited the israeli government during the terrible bloodshed of the gaza war. i will never ever forget, madam commissioner, how you hugged and kissed the members of the israeli government during that terrible time. how can i be sure that if this resolution is accepted nobody is going to hug and kiss war criminals on my behalf?
madam president, regarding the joint fight against terrorism, as a criminal and human rights lawyer, let me make a suggestion. i think it would be very important and useful to put together a joint working group of experts, academics, practising lawyers and so on, drawing conclusions from the often very painful experiences of the post 9/11 era, where human rights have been suspended in the name of the fight against terrorism. i come from a country where, in the last three years, the government has been suspending human rights and sending people to prison completely without any foundation. in this day and age they do it in the name of the fight against terrorism. we have 16 very probably political prisoners in prison, charged with terrorism, without any evidence whatsoever. suspended human rights, habeas corpus, right of defence, prisoners’ rights: i know what i am talking about. we have to be very careful when we talk about the fight against terrorism and we have to do it in a very professional and very careful way.
in 1996, i read in a white paper from the union that in the coming decades the world will be confronted by a sharp struggle between europe, the united states, japan and the emerging asian countries. fortunately, this fight is not fought with weapons, but mainly in the economic sphere. europe must be involved. giscard d'estaing, who was the head of the convention, the head of the government that drafted the failed constitution, said that europe should not be a rival but a reliable partner of the united states. this is the key question for the success of the eu-us summit. we must seek partnership, but if we only look at the united states as a partner and do not take up the conflict for the sake of the people of europe, we cannot achieve anything in serious matters.
here i am, a peaceful dissident from one of the member states of the european union, hungary. i would like to ask for your advice. how can we achieve the same level of interest in the human rights situation in hungary as you have in the human rights situation in cuba? in hungary, ever since the autumn of 2006, there has been mass police brutality against peaceful demonstrators, and many political prisoners have been tortured in prison. i would like to ask cuban politicians to please negotiate on our behalf on the basis of all the… (the president cut off the speaker.)
madam president, you are probably reading my thoughts because i did not indicate that i wanted the floor, but i wanted to apologise for taking an extra 20 seconds from this extremely lively, huge democratic debate for such an irrelevant question as mass police brutality and political prisoners in a member state. i do apologise.
rapporteur. − mr president, in the committee on budgets we voted on more than 1 100 amendments to the 2010 draft budget. inevitably there are a small number of technical adjustments that i hereby request be put to the vote in plenary. regarding the european economic recovery plan, the committee adopted two new paragraphs to be added to budget lines 06 04 14 01, 06 04 14 02 and 06 04 14 03. they should be in addition to the existing budget remarks but, due to a technical error, they are shown as replacing them. amendment 832 should, therefore, be adjusted accordingly. after verification of the margins, the vote in committee left a margin of eur 1 775 000 in heading 3b. i propose allocating this amount to the europe for citizens programme. this would mean that amendment 889 on budget line 15 06 66 should be modified to give total commitment appropriations of eur 32 255 000 and the retabled amendment 547 is therefore covered. the words ‘sustainable and environmentally friendly actions ... (green new deal)’ should be added to the remarks instead of the words ‘green new deal’ in the remarks adopted on the following budget lines: 04 02 17 esf – convergence 04 02 19 esf – competitiveness 13 03 16 erdf – convergence 13 03 18 erdf – competitiveness similarly, on the budget line 13 03 20 erdf – operational technical assistance for the european regional development fund, the first two new paragraphs should be replaced by the following:‘part of the appropriation is intended for financing sustainable and environmentally friendly actions (green new deal) that provide for reconciling economic, social and environmental development requirements and for recovery of european regions after the economic and financial crisis’.the budget line number of the pilot project on an all-inclusive cooperation between public authorities, commercial firms and not-for-profit enterprises on integrating people into society and employment should be changed to another line, 04 03 12, for technical reasons. the budget line number of ‘preparatory action – erasmus for journalists’ should be changed to 09 06 05 for technical reasons. if amendment 943 on the epso budget line 26 01 20 is adopted, the corresponding budgetary annex for this office should be adjusted accordingly. i ask the sittings service to make the necessary corrections in the minutes – if the plenary will support me. thank you for your attention. mr president, just allow me to say a word of thanks to the secretariat for the enormous work they have done. this adjustment list usually features every year and represents good work from the secretariat. we discussed it with the groups and coordinators and i received support for this change, which is in the spirit of the general proposal. the most important thing is that we in the committee on budgets were united in using all the legal possibilities that we have to fill up the margin almost in each heading, which means that any vote which gives additional money is risking the legality of the budget. i draw your attention to this and i hope that the spirit of cooperation will remain. we have slightly different views but this is normal. (applause)
rapporteur. − mr president, it is not usually the rapporteur who decides on whether something is incorrect or not. we have a practice and a custom. i must inform the plenary that if we vote first on the committee on budgets amendments, which were not questioned by the verts/ale group, then their subsequent amendment will decrease the european regional development fund by eur 300 million in payments. so that is a real contradiction. on the one hand there would be an increase, and on the other hand a decrease. we should stick to our decision, for it is written clearly in amendment 464 that the payment is not increased. there is zero increase. therefore it is in conflict – there cannot be an increase of eur 300 million and at the same time no increase.
rapporteur. − mr president, again, the order of vote is not my decision. it was stated by my colleague, mrs trüpel, a few minutes ago that there is a so-called informal rule that the committee on budget’s amendment is to be voted on first. why? because the committee on budgets is the parliamentary body in which we can measure whether we have leeway or not. it is not in our interest to change the rules during the voting procedure, and i am against that. the voting list has been distributed. the groups have decided how to vote. any change will result in confusion and later on will produce a lot of difficulties. if we change our rules for one case, for whatever reason, we will be lost. each body should respect its own customs, rules and regulations.
rapporteur. − even after the vote there is no reason to start the debate again. we are now in favour of voting.
many of the amendments contained a word-for-word amendment which touched on the substance. it is this: he refuses to use the community budget to finance an increasingly militarised and neoliberal european union. parliament rejected this amendment. he has demonstrated that he has not learned from the crisis of the past few years, that he has not learned from what the apostles of the liberal market of the past have concluded, that this path cannot be continued today. the budget of the european union continues to rely on the free market for its full powers, causing the severe damage to the population of europe that we have recently experienced.
of course i voted against the proposal to alleviate the crisis in the dairy sector, and i stress again that it is only a charity, which is not even enough to fight fires, but i would have thought it wrong to vote against it. he is upset and saddened that i have not received an answer, and he repeatedly rushes to answer three questions i have asked. the first was about what the european union wants to do to prevent the continuation of the cycle of crises, whether in the dairy sector or elsewhere. what lessons has the european union learned from this tragic crisis that has taken and is taking away the lives of many families? the second question i would have asked the commissioner when she was here, and also the commission, was how to distribute this money among the member states, or whether it should be given primarily to small farmers whose livelihoods are at risk. thirdly, i have not received any answer to the question of what they would like to do about the discriminatory situation in the new member states. (the president declared the sitting closed)
a few days ago, president barroso was here and i asked him what could be done to solve the human rights crisis that has been going on since autumn 2006 in a european union member state, hungary. i've told you many times that hundreds of people have been subjected to such brutal police brutality that they have suffered serious injuries, hundreds of people have been arbitrarily arrested, hundreds of people have suffered long criminal trials for no reason. the president said that this was internal affairs and that the european union could not interfere in internal affairs. i would like to ask what this double standard is, what the legal basis is for the european union to intervene in a country outside the union when a country within the union refuses to protect human rights. i am asking our iranian friends, those in the opposition, but also those in the government, to help protect the human rights of hungarians.
i would like to make an exception, not to speak of the treaty of lisbon, but to say to the european council conclusions on the economic, financial and social chapter that we are pleased to see that signs of financial stabilisation are also appearing in this document. we see it that way ourselves, but it's also clear that the human resources are running out in europe. businesses are having trouble getting financial aid, bank loans, unemployment is rising. this is also reflected in this document, and i think it is important to stress that economic growth cannot be sustained, and we cannot talk about europe emerging stronger from the crisis than it entered, unless we can clearly ensure that the current level of social cohesion is maintained or strengthened, unless we can increase employment and prevent social exclusion. the methods of social policy coordination, open coordination, are a rather weak tool in our hands, we need to strengthen the methods of coordination, we need more effective tools. the achievements of social cohesion and social europe are the factors that people consider most important. we must emphasize this and it is our shared responsibility.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. on behalf of hungary, the first member state to ratify the treaty of lisbon, i would like to congratulate the swedish presidency. they have done an excellent job and we have seen a pro-european czech in the person of president hável, and we have seen a lot of problems caused by czech president klaus, who has not been pro-european. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the setting up of the new commission, the setting up of the structures, we should do this as soon as possible, so that we can concentrate on the substantive work. i think it is very important that the lisbon treaty includes the rights of persons belonging to minorities for the first time. i would ask ms wallström, who is very sensitive to minorities, to tell president barroso that she will promise that the future commissioner for fundamental rights will deal with the rights of minorities, indigenous minorities such as the numis, immigrant minorities and roma.
i am convinced that the treaty of lisbon will undoubtedly enable europe to operate on a more secure basis, with greater rationality and a greater focus on the problems affecting the daily lives of its citizens. but we also need to talk about the cost of doing so. the price was that we had betrayed our values, that we had let pragmatism triumph over values. what do i mean? the absurd request of the czech president was granted by the european union, and the czech president even claimed that the czech opt-out was necessary because of the venice decrees. i would remind you that the venice decrees were used to deprive millions of hungarians and germans of their rights and to displace them, and i think that the union has done something that is unacceptable from a legal, political and moral point of view. we have, from a legal point of view, entered the czech constitutional order, we have overruled the opinion of the czech parliament, from a political point of view we are tying the document to a forthcoming accession, possibly punishing a country which cannot do so - i am thinking of croatia. it's morally unacceptable to opt out of a subject like this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in a fair and transparent manner. two decades have passed since the iron curtain was torn down, yet in some of the new member states the change of regime has taken place in terms of legal frameworks, in terms of state organisation, but in terms of political thinking, in terms of power reflexes, in situations where the past is haunted. think of what happened in budapest in the autumn of 2006, where to this day, those whose most basic freedoms and human rights were trampled upon have not been given their justice and their rights. or to those belonging to national minorities in the new member states who still feel discriminated against, both in their rights and opportunities. the european commission, in line with the lisbon treaty, must ensure that the portfolios are designed with a proper focus on human rights and freedoms in the union. at the same time, such a portfolio should also cover the protection of the rights of traditional national minorities and linguistic minorities, as we see that there is still much to be done in this area. and the unresolved problems of these indigenous communities, whether you like it or not, are here in the union. they must be addressed and the union has a duty to help citizens who are struggling to assert their rights.
in writing. – the council meeting was crucial for the european union, for it cleared away the last obstacle to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. but i warn all of us not to consider it as a result per se. we're only halfway: now we have to get used to the new institutional framework. when it comes to adaptation, the parliament is well on track, as it has already worked on its rules of procedure and has debated the installation of new institutions, such as the european external service. the next step is to set up a commission which shows leadership and portrays our values. therefore i urge member states to nominate competent, qualified people, and to make an effort to have a gender-balanced commission. equally, we need to choose the top leaders as soon as possible, and not to waste time. there is no time to be lame ducks. if we consider ourselves as a carrier of universal values, we need leaders now who are capable credibly to represent them – for example in copenhagen, where nations will be negotiating the near future of mankind, and europe will need all its talent, responsibility and generosity to reach an agreement.
i would also like to mention today's festive meeting. yes, 20 years after the fall of the berlin wall and the end of the soviet communist dictatorship. hungarians were among the greatest sufferers of this dictatorship. i have to add two facts to all this. one, the status quo was allowed to exist for decades, this state of affairs, because the post-world war ii situation was what the western powers wanted to keep. the other, the soviet union, was not the same as the russian people, who also suffered under the communist dictatorship. russia is of course a very important economic and strategic partner. the union raises its voice in the face of human rights violations. it is right, but does it have a moral basis after vaclav klaus bought his signature to the lisbon treaty by allowing the venice decrees to continue and thereby committing himself to regard people as collectively guilty in the same way? the last meeting was the us-eu summit. my tone was, what do we do to make sure that they accept us as a good partner for the united states? now i'm hearing the tone: what do we prescribe to russia, that we accept her as a reliable partner? i think we need to look for a much more balanced cooperation with these two partners, if we consider them to be such.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. there is a great need for a new partnership between the eu and russia, but this is currently hampered by a historic dispute between several eu member states and russia. the eu-russia relationship cannot be held hostage to these historical debates. in the energy field, the two countries are interdependent, as mr hannes swoboda has already pointed out. in the energy field, it would be important for the union and russia to reach an agreement after withdrawing from the energy charter. it would be important to set up an energy hotline so that the central european eu member states do not suffer as a result of the russian-ukrainian disputes. finally, we are right to condemn the erosion of the rule of law and human rights in russia, but we must also draw attention to violations such as the denial of citizenship to 400 000 russians in latvia, and to the fact that the union has things to do in its own home country.
the renegotiation of the eu-russia cooperation agreement provides a good opportunity for the two sides to review the issues that are most important to their relations. it is no coincidence that, in the light of events of recent years, the agenda of the negotiations reflects the evaluative role of energy trade. judging by the news reports, we can't be sure that we'll get out of the gas crisis this year. the eu's gas directive, which has not yet been adopted, will unfortunately be worthless if eu member states are again faced with a closed loop. the eu should therefore seek to integrate the principles of the energy charter, which russia has not yet ratified, into the new cooperation agreement. today, both energy transit and access to markets are fraught with contradictions. while russia is already an investor in most eu member states, taking advantage of the openness of the market, it is consistently closing its own market to western companies. the energy charter can resolve this contradiction. the written record of market principles can also provide a good basis for negotiating future long-term gas supply contracts. without transparency, member states will continue to be vulnerable to each other and will continue to pay different prices for gas supplies.
that concludes the agenda item. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. member states should fully implement the services directive by 28 december 2009, which would open up the market for services to individuals and businesses, as it did for goods and products. this directive would greatly help small and medium-sized enterprises and contribute to job creation and economic growth, while taking into account the interests of consumers. however, some member states have decided to restrict the employment of nationals of the new member states that joined in 2004 and 2007. germany and austria intend to maintain this restriction until 2011 without any serious economic or social reasons. france and belgium have similar arrangements in place for romania and bulgaria. today, however, it is clear that the fears of the well-known polish plumber are unfounded. the number of eastern and central europeans working in france is well below that of the united kingdom, for example, even though paris decided three years ago to gradually lift restrictions on jobs in which there is a shortage of labour. these measures seriously hamper the application of the services directive, one of the main pillars of which is the complete elimination of discrimination on the grounds of economic and national origin in the member states. twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall, which abolished the boundaries between east and west, we can say that the services directive serves a similar purpose. successful application of the directive would definitively dispel the misconception about the polish plumber.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the carriage of goods by road between member states. the author, mr. herbert reul, has indicated that he will be late, but perhaps he will have a word at the end when he arrives.
madam president! the austrians, our dear neighbours, have been polluting one of hungary's most beautiful rivers, the ráb, for years. two weeks ago, we saw foam about half a meter thick in the river, which clearly shows this. but not only are our neighbors polluting our water, but they're also polluting our air with the proposed holy cross incinerator. in heiligenkreuz, they want to build a waste incinerator 300 meters from the hungarian border, which could burn almost ten times the annual waste of burgenland. all with the support of the european union. the proposed investment is in breach of directive 2008/98/ec and i therefore call on the commission of the european union not to approve any eu aid for the construction of the waste incinerator in heligenkreuz.
when we celebrate so enthusiastically here in the european union the fall of the wall and with it communism, let us ask ourselves, what happened to the former communist leaders? i'll tell you what. they became the most ardent big capitalists, neoliberals, the pioneers of the global order. they came back to power and they took away everything that was good about communism, let's face it, some of it, job security and social security, but they brought back the worst of it, brutality, terror. on the 50th anniversary of the '56 revolution, which allowed the wall to fall, eyes were shot out, and now in hungary, as we speak and as we celebrate the collapse of communism, these communist comrades are holding 16 political prisoners in prison. i will celebrate when the political prisoners are released, when the victims of the shooting are brought to justice, and when these communists have finished their bloodletting and disappeared into the abyss of history.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. two decades have passed since the fall of the berlin wall, which marked the 20th anniversary of the iron curtain, and yet these 20 years have proved too short to see that in many countries that have freed themselves from communism we have not yet been able to rid ourselves of the irritations of the past system. in the autumn of 2006, police officers still ignored the right to assembly and the right to a fair trial on the streets of budapest, and the victims are still seeking justice and enforcement of their rights in vain. in march this year, in budapest, the protest demanding the removal of the prime minister was accompanied by deportation, inhuman, humiliating treatment. in the european union today, it may still happen that someone in his own country, in his own language - in slovakia, for example - cannot enjoy the rights granted by democracy, if history has forced him into the fate of a minority. and in romania, a statue is being erected to the former chief of staff who fired into the crowd for the demonstrations.
europe, the european union, started as a peace project and is experiencing the longest period of peace in its history. so we know that integration is a powerful tool in this regard, and now we have it in our hands for the western balkans. the western balkans have recently gone through a very traumatic period, a war that has caused a lot of human pain. to overcome this, progress in the process of european integration is needed. visa-free travel is an important step in this. many spoke of the possibility for young people to have direct contact, direct experience and to strengthen their democratic capacity. the message of confidence and visa-free travel is certainly there, but it is also in europe's interest to bring the western balkans closer to the european union, both in terms of security policy and economic policy. but it is important that we do not create a new division in the region, but that all countries join the visa-free regime as soon as possible.
i would like to welcome this report, congratulate the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, and say that i think that on the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, the guarantee of the transferability of borders for the western balkans is another fall in the chain of events that began 20 years ago. the proposal is therefore welcome, but we must not forget that the question of granting visa-free travel is only partly a technical question and also a very clear political one. that is why it is important and i support the adoption of the joint declaration, because it is a sign that the european institutions have understood this responsibility. responsibility also means action, firstly on the part of the states concerned, which have not yet been able to meet the conditions for visa-free travel, to meet these conditions as soon as possible, and on the part of the european commission, without whose help this process would be prolonged.
in writing. - madam president, i have to ask you... first of all, congratulations to the reporter and the shadow reporter for making an acceptable compromise on this issue. the issue of visa-free travel is partly a technical issue, it is clearly a political one. visa-free travel is based on mutual trust, mutual commitments. i therefore support the adoption of the joint declaration, alongside the report, because it is a sign that the european institutions have understood this responsibility. of course, responsibility means action. the commission is also proposing to extend the visa waiver to all third countries, including those which have not yet been able to do so, and to extend it to all third countries. action by the european commission, because without its effective assistance this process would only be delayed, which is not in our interest; this applies to bosnia-herzegovina, albania and kosovo as well. as a hungarian representative, i would like to reiterate that the visa-free regime for serbia also makes the connection of hungarians of the past more direct with their motherland, europe. for citizens who live on either side of the border, who speak the same language, who have close family and cultural ties, the value of crossing the border without obstacles and without a visa cannot be overstated. today marks the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, the crossing of the barbed wire. ensuring the interoperability of borders for the western balkan countries is another setback in a series of events that began 20 years ago.
these countries, the new members of the european union, who have had to take care of the losers of the systemic changes, who have had to become competitive in an open market after an economic restructuring, who have had to develop and build economies with a balanced structure, and they have the least reserves, these are the countries where people live. home loan repayments are being hampered by high foreign exchange-based lending rates, unemployment is rising due to the difficulties of a one-sidedly developing economy, and social spending is falling. and what we're seeing is that social tensions are creating instability, political instability, support for extremist views is growing in many countries, and populism is gaining ground. i think that we must take all this into account and assess the situation and define the next steps to be taken in the spirit of european solidarity and on this basis.
as a member of the committee on petitions, i'd like to say a few words. on the one hand, i fully support the adoption of the ombudsman's report. as a member of the committee, i think you've done a very balanced job. what i think is extremely important is that he's tried to shorten the time it takes to process cases, because we know that if someone has a complaint, it's key to their trust in how quickly that complaint is processed, how quickly they get a response. we know that most complaints are not dealt with by the ombudsman. in this context, it will be of the utmost importance in the near future to provide european union citizens with as much information as possible about the institutions to which they can turn for advice on various issues. the cooperation between the committee and the ombudsman has been very good and i hope that it will continue in the near future.
the ombudsman has done an excellent job and i have said this in the committee on petitions and i support his re-election. the european union is not a party to the treaty on european union, but it is a party to the treaty on european union, and it is not a party to the treaty on european union. finally, the treaty of lisbon, the 100,000 pages of acquis communautaire, does mention minorities, but it does not explain how they are treated, because if slovakia, for example, passes a harmful language law, it is claimed that minority affairs are not a community competence, whereas the new member states were obliged to sign and ratify the charter on linguistic minorities and the framework convention on minority affairs when they joined. in this respect, the union has a double narrative, the union with the face of janus. this should be clarified, because 15% of europe's citizens are indigenous minorities or immigrant minorities, including 12 million roma. this is a very important and serious problem for europe and it would be very good if the ombudsman paid close attention to this issue in his future work - i hope he will continue this work.
in writing. the european ombudsman's report does not reflect my experience as a human rights defender in hungary. it's not about how in the fall of 2006, hundreds of peaceful protesters and demonstrators, people who remember, were injured, jailed and subjected to a conceptual criminal investigation by government-controlled police. the eu has been silent. he also heard that the police have since then been systematically - illegally - identifying protesters for change, videotaping them, harassing them unlawfully, often arbitrarily producing them. it is also thanks to the eu's appalling passivity that 16 opposition activists have been in pre-trial detention for months on suspicion of terrorist offences. their main crime is that they started a movement to expose government corruption. the method of house searches and seizures carried out in their homes and the continued and gross violation of detainees' rights have been in complete disregard of european human rights standards. among other things, they conducted irregular, intimidating house searches involving large numbers of masked commandos, without any official witnesses or other guarantees. computers were seized in violation of the relevant legislation, without professional recording of the current state of the data, allowing the authority to falsify evidence, to settle accounts with political opponents. we expect the eu to act decisively!
my dear fellow congressman! after world war i, temporary barracks were built in budapest, hungary, to provide hospital care for returning prisoners of war. these temporary barracks are still in operation today. we want to introduce temporary procedural rules to ensure the budgetary process and i think that rapporteur and commission president lamassoure has referred to principles and wants to see principles put into practice that will be at least as durable as the temporary barracks that have been in operation for 90 years. it is very important that we paid a high price for the treaty of lisbon. we have given up on principles and the citizens of an entire country, the czech republic, will have less access to human rights than most europeans. our primary duty is to ensure the smooth, smooth and efficient execution of this contract, which has been so dearly paid for. i believe that the proposals for which the rapporteur is now asking for authorization are far from serving that purpose and that is why my group would like to see this, if it were accepted by the majority in parliament, a substantial majority. finally, speaking of temporary, a few decades ago, an announcement came out that the permanent residences of soviet military officers temporarily serving in our country were completed. it means that no matter how long-lasting something is, after a while it's obsolete. i hope that when these current rules are obsolete, they will be replaced by better ones. in that hope, i ask everyone to support this motion.
the group of the european conservatives and reformists is also very keen to support the transitional budgetary procedural directives, with the not insignificant addition that we do not want these transitional budgetary procedural directives to become permanent, but on the other hand we believe that the transition between the two systems must necessarily lead to transitional procedural directives and that this does not necessarily open up the danger of unnecessary transfers. in fact, in future it will be necessary to avoid weekly and monthly transfers and to regulate in the permanent guidelines the possibility of making such transfers no more than twice a year in order to preserve the unity, stability and transparency of the budget.
the european ombudsman's report does not reflect my experience as a human rights defender in hungary. it's not about how in the fall of 2006, hundreds of peaceful protesters and demonstrators, people who remember, were injured, jailed and subjected to a conceptual criminal investigation by government-controlled police. the eu has been silent. he also heard that the police have since then been systematically - illegally - identifying protesters for change, videotaping them, harassing them unlawfully, often arbitrarily producing them. it is also thanks to the eu's appalling passivity that 16 opposition activists have been in pre-trial detention for months on suspicion of terrorist offences. their main crime is that they started a movement to expose government corruption. the method of house searches and seizures and the continued and gross violation of detainees' rights have been carried out in complete disregard of european human rights standards. among other things, they conducted irregular, intimidating house searches involving large numbers of masked commandos, without any official witnesses or other guarantees. computers were seized in violation of the relevant legislation, without professional recording of the current state of the data, allowing the authority to falsify evidence, to settle accounts with political opponents. we expect the eu to act decisively! i voted no.
in writing. - members of the house! in times of global economic stagnation, financial instruments capable of providing financing to enterprises, especially in disadvantaged regions and for such social groups, are of particular importance. the micro-credit system has proven its ability to help the most vulnerable groups, who face severe difficulties in the contracting market, in many countries and on several continents, when combined with appropriate training and monitoring. the progress microfinance facility proposed by the european commission is a very important initiative that can play this role in the reintegration of groups affected by social exclusion. however, as long as the codecision procedure between the commission and the european parliament is ongoing and the budget of the microfinance facility is not fully clarified, it would be reasonable for the european commission to withdraw its proposal for the progress 2010 work plan and not to put the co-legislator in a position to do so. the european parliament would thus be able to take a free and responsible decision on this important issue once codecision has been concluded.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! i would like to draw your attention to the charter of fundamental rights of the treaty of lisbon in relation to people with disabilities. the council of europe is currently working on a new draft anti-discrimination law, and i would like to draw your attention to three things. first, the charter states that no one should be discriminated against, directly or indirectly, because they have a disabled child or a disabled family member. the second is that from now on, insurance companies can't refuse to take out insurance because someone has a genetic disease or a disability. thirdly, the respect for the quality of life of people with disabilities is very important in the european union institutions and in christian democratic rights. i would like to draw this to the attention of my fellow members of parliament, because i would like to ask you to support the establishment of the disability intergroup this week.
in the north of hungary, tens of thousands of people from slovakia are coming to work and thousands of people have settled in the north of hungary in rajka and other settlements. thanks to the excellent infrastructure and schengen, they work in slovakia and live in hungary. this is a great example of what the european union is good for. according to surveys, slovaks living in hungary feel good in their newly chosen homes and municipalities are now thinking about providing slovak-language kindergartens and schools despite the fact that they are not hungarian citizens, because bilingualism is valued in hungary. the opposite process is taking place in slovakia, where the hungarian national community, which has lived there for a thousand years, is severely discriminated against in terms of linguistic rights, the hungarian language is made secondary and subordinated to the state language. this is the shame of the entire european union!
i would also like to draw attention to the subject that cornelia ernts spoke about earlier. so, after the signing of the readmission agreements, negotiations began during the south slavic war, the resettlement of those who were forced to flee. this process has been partly voluntary, partly forced, and in particular the minorities in kosovo - primarily the roma - are the ones who are in a very difficult position in this process. i think it is very important that we take the warnings of international organisations into account when these readmission agreements are being implemented. we know that kosovo today is not in a social, economic position to take care of these people, and there are really undignified situations. i think the european parliament should speak up.
i myself am pleased that the council is committed to the further development and reform of the european crime prevention network and in this light it is a real pity - as many have said - that the council representatives are not here for this debate. i'd like to separate my content from my process input. ten years ago, the decision was made that this network was necessary. the evaluation now showed that the network had not taken advantage of the possibilities that could have been given. but it also became clear that we needed to have a network like this, to develop it further, to involve civilians, researchers, to collaborate with law enforcement. i would also like to say that the european socialists and democrats attach great importance to the work of the network and its further development. the european parliament's rejection of this initiative is precisely to give the lisbon treaty greater legitimacy to this step and to enable us to participate more fully in it.
i would like to join those who have congratulated mr barrot on his responsible and excellent work. thank you for the work of the speakers. i'm closing this joint discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 november 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following is the report by mr alexander alvaro, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the initiative of the french republic with a view to adopting a council decision on the application of information technology to customs (17483/2008 - c6-0037/2009 - 2009/0803 (cns)) (a7-0052/2009).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, this house is honoured. to the delight of many of us, the treaty of lisbon will soon enter into force. it took a long time, and it was not primarily up to this parliament to take so long to ratify it. it is therefore not for parliament to apply immediately all the rules which it is bound to apply in this context. i would like to begin with what the rapporteur has just concluded, namely the enormous importance of exercising these rights as soon as possible. parliament has indeed increased its powers by a very considerable amount. the treaty of lisbon greatly enhances the power of parliament, but it also promotes democracy, the state of european democracy, and it is our task here, now, in this debate and with this legislation, to guarantee that these rights can be exercised. i would like to thank both mr martin, the rapporteur, and mr corbett for the work they have done in this respect, and the most important items, such as the relations with the national parliaments, or the stricter application of the principle of subsidiarity, which is much more clearly defined than before, or the comitology procedures and the new codecision powers of the parliaments, the budgetary procedure, all appear in this system, and we will certainly support this. at the same time, we must ensure - and i would like to draw attention to this - that these rights cannot be abused when we vote on amendments. a very small minority should not be allowed to thrive, to obstruct the legislative process. we need to be flexible about this. we saw during the ratification of the lisbon treaty how one man, one president of the republic, could play with the whole system, which is why only safeguards must be put in place that cannot be abused to the extreme. the european people's party supports this report and congratulates the rapporteurs, both mr corbett and mr martin.
mr. president, i have to go. the debate that has just taken place reflects the fact that in the history of the european union and in the history of the european parliament, a major reform is under way which we are unlikely to be able to tackle in a single report. i congratulate both mr martin and mr corbett and all those who took part in this debate, but there are a number of points which are still legally open to future clarification. let me give you one example. i am very pleased that parliament has clearly voted against the charter of fundamental rights, it clearly supports it, but we know very well that it is precisely the charter of fundamental rights that has been requested by several countries for derogation and that the charter of fundamental rights also has some questions and unresolved problems - such as the question of linguistic rights to be discussed tomorrow evening - which european commissioners have said so far is not part of community law. we must therefore make it very clear, with the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights, which elements of community law are those on which both the commission and parliament have the right to react, because this will prevent important problems such as the slovak language law case from being referred to by commissioner barrot or leonard orban as not being within the community's competence.
the central european union member states are committed to supporting the union's climate policy objectives. the commission notes that the union's contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector is limited to the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. the new member states therefore consider it of the utmost importance that this role of the new member states should continue to be fair. they have therefore assumed extremely heavy economic and social burdens. the global emissions reduction agreement should take into account the economic strength of the new member states, their gni and it is very important that these resources are not lost for these member states to implement green investments, renewable energy development.
the european union has every moral basis to take decisive action in copenhagen to reduce emissions from the united states and china. the basis is that the european union, a union of 27 countries, has fulfilled its commitments under the kyoto protocol. the former socialist countries have made a significant contribution to this, at great cost. the collapse of heavy industry has led to a significant reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, but we have paid a social, social price for it. it is therefore appropriate to take this into account in the international commitment, in the financing, to take account of economic development. secondly, it should be possible, and this would be fair, to carry over unused quotas to the next period if they were used for environmental purposes.
mr barroso, i warmly welcome your statement just now that you intend that there should be a portfolio within the commission dealing with fundamental rights. i would add a further question to this. as you are perfectly aware that a significant number of autochthonous national minorities and language minorities live in the eu – 15 million people, 10% of the population – do you intend to incorporate the issue of these communities, these national and language minorities, into the portfolio of the new commissioner dealing with fundamental rights? i think that especially after the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights enter into force the eu should further elaborate its approach towards these communities.
mr president, my special thanks to the three secretariats who got this resolution ready for this plenary. the stockholm programme can be regarded as a pragmatic action plan for a more secure and open europe based on common values, principles and actions. it contributes to practical cooperation between law enforcement institutions, courts and immigration services. it balances measures, sustains common security, the rule of law and the rights of the individual. however, it is also an extremely complex issue. i would like to emphasise the introduction of the convergence principle. it is another step in the building of the eu state. it is nothing other than the pooling of sovereignty. it is based on the principle of availability of all data, information and intelligence held by all agencies across the european union. the interoperability of eu information systems must be achieved so that all agencies can access each others data. parliament gives added value to the commission proposal. all areas of equality, gender and discrimination-related issues are mentioned and well described in the document. after the treaty of lisbon enters into force, we can seize the historical moment to create a vital and strong area of freedom, security and justice. parliament rightly highlights its new role as colegislator on the same footing as the council after the treaty of lisbon comes into force. i am satisfied to get a bunch of european common values into the text like: freedom, liberty, justice, fundamental rights, democracy, quality and, in this context, privacy. i know these values have different meanings depending on the general political climate, but this resolution has found the right balance between them. i would like to reflect on the pes campaign ‘put the children first’. i gladly note the children- and family-related paragraphs in the paper. my political intention is to assure equal rights and engagement within the european union to all citizens. our citizens need a pragmatic, forward-looking and comprehensive european migration policy based on common values and rules, including the principles of solidarity and transparency. well-managed migration can be beneficial to all stakeholders and contributes to the economic growth of the eu and of the other member states that need labour migrants.
in writing. in creating the stockholm programme, we aim to make the benefits of an area of freedom, security and justice tangible to citizens. but building a people's europe goes far beyond programming. the lisbon treaty opens up a new dimension in the protection of citizens' interests. the rights, freedoms and principles set out in the charter of fundamental rights shall be binding. the european union can now accede to the council of europe convention on the protection of human rights. this act shall be adopted as soon as possible. in order to enforce these obligations, we will need a clear implementation action plan to give real substance to the new legal framework available. this will be the task of the next (spanish) eu presidency. the consolidation of human rights, including the rights of minorities, in community law began with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the stockholm programme translates this into policy priorities to be embodied in concrete action plans for the coming years. in this process, the european parliament has not only gained more powers since 1 december, but also more responsibilities.
in writing. fundamental rights will be a priority area of the stockholm programme, as the binding of the charter of fundamental rights and the eu's accession to the european convention on human rights will place an obligation on the eu to strengthen europe's commitment to human rights and to contribute to the best possible awareness of its citizens of their rights. these steps are not superfluous, as human rights principles require constant care and we have a lot of work to do in the eu. the rise of discrimination and intolerance is a growing social problem. national and ethnic minorities, especially roma, gays, people with disabilities, face some form of discrimination on a daily basis. it is therefore important that existing directives are implemented consistently in all member states and that the council extends protection to all vulnerable groups by adopting the new comprehensive draft directive. the economic crisis has also led to an increase in racism and xenophobia and related crimes. according to the fundamental rights agency, the statistics do not accurately reflect reality, since in most cases victims are not aware of their rights and do not contact the authorities. it is the shared responsibility of the eu institutions and the member states to change this and to produce legislation at european level that can ensure that europe and the member states remain the protectors of diversity and do not give room for violence.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the joint deportation of illegal immigrants to afghanistan and other third countries.
that concludes the agenda item.
the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2007, section ii - council (c6-0417/2008 - 2008/2277 (dec)) - committee on budgetary control. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 november 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
joint debate on the following item: report by reimer böge, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management; oral question with debate by pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, to the commission on the relocation of enterprises in the eu and the role of eu financial instruments (o120-0/2009 b7-0226/2009)
i remember when we started this globalization fund, and we had a big debate about whether it would be a good idea for the subsidies paid out by the globalization fund, instead of mitigating the damage, to help the displaced workers get back into the labor market, to kind of encourage companies to live comfortably with the relocation tool, because the fund reimburses the costs of the displaced. the case of dell is symptomatic because we find that instead of mitigation, solidarity being present in this story, it's sort of an incentive, because dell gets help with both layoffs and relocation. so this is simply a case of not coordinating european money properly. the globalisation fund is in line with competition policy, it is in line with the structural funds. it is not useful, it is not useful, it is contrary to the aims of the fund, if we use them in a contradictory, uncoordinated way. i would therefore like to draw the commission's attention to the need to ensure that european public money is used in a coordinated way in order to avoid such confusion in the future.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 november 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the oral question to the commission by mr vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the situation with regard to the euromed free trade area planned for 2010 (o-0116/2009 b7-0222/2009)
i have received five motions for resolutions1 tabled in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 november 2009. 1 see minutes.
the next item is the oral question to the commission by brian simpson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the safety and interoperability of the community rail system (o-0129/2009 b7-0227/2009)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that many of the questions raised in this debate were answered at the railway safety conference on 8 september, which i called for immediately after the viareggio and netherlands accidents, precisely to signal the strong commitment of the commission and the european institutions to intervene in the very sensitive field of railway safety. as you know, representatives of all the institutions, the parliament and the council, have been invited to this conference. all the issues at the heart of this evening's debate were discussed, starting with the question of the agencies and the european agency. i share mr milana's view, because it was during the conference that i proposed that the european agency should be given more powers. therefore, i am in full agreement. however, the rules of the game must be changed and i am committed, as long as i am transport commissioner, to moving in this direction so that the railway agency can function like the maritime or the air agency. another issue which we have discussed during this working day, and which was also attended by the families of the victims, is the responsibility of the operators in the transport chain and therefore the question of the rights of those who are involved in railway accidents. as far as rail passenger rights are concerned, there are regulations which will come into force on 3 december this year. the commission is also looking at the aspects of non-passenger casualties, i.e. those who are not passengers but who remain victims as a result of accidents such as the viareggio accident, caused by an explosion or by the derailment of a train, and is considering what responses can be given to this problem. the commission has therefore made a major effort in the field of railway safety, which it considers to be a priority also as regards the certification of staff. the community has already adopted directive 2007/59/ec on the certification of train drivers and there is already a european driver's licence which will come into force on 3 december this year. as regards the social aspects that have been raised, there is the social dialogue committee which discussed the agreement on working time for international traffic in 2005. as regards maintenance and greener rail transport systems, i believe that modernisation of the facilities and effective maintenance are needed. as i said in my answer to the question, i believe that rtms is a technologically important development in which the european commission has invested in order to make all transport in the railway sector safer. i think that is an important element that should not be forgotten.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. in relation to the issue at issue, i think it is important to note that in all cases the owner or operator must be identified in relation to the ecm (entity in charge) in order to reduce the chance of accidents. it should also be considered to introduce the criminal liability of legal persons, as is known in france, in order to give security a greater role than the management of legal persons. strategic decisions made at the level of the company's managers and owners should never be made at the expense of the safety and lives of people. if a mass accident occurs because of the irresponsible and risky management of a company, it is also justified to hold the legal entity responsible, otherwise only the top manager leaves early, taking on the large premiums and the severance payments known today, so that only the engine driver ends up in prison. the fate of the company must be linked to that of its manager, and also to that of its employees, in order to ensure a safe and adequate quality of service, especially in the field of (state) public services. i ask the commission: what proposal does it intend to put forward to ensure that the service provider who fails to comply with the obligation is not only liable under civil law (for damages) but also under criminal law?
the next item is the commission's statement on the use of minority languages as part of europe's cultural heritage.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the general objective of the european union's policy on multilingualism is to promote all the languages spoken in the european union. pursuant to article 151 of the treaty, community action is to aim at encouraging cooperation between member states in order to contribute to the flowering of the cultures of the member states, while respecting their diversity at national and regional level and putting our common cultural heritage at the forefront. on the basis of these principles, the european commission, in close cooperation with the member states, is implementing the strategy for promoting multilingualism and linguistic diversity, a document adopted in september 2008 which addresses all the languages spoken in the community. all these languages are an integral part of our common cultural heritage, and each of the national, regional, minority and migrant languages spoken in europe adds a facet to our common cultural heritage. as you know, the european commission has invited the member states to take account of the teaching of regional and minority languages in their national strategies for promoting multilingualism in society. the european union's decisions in this area do not replace measures taken at member state level, but support and complement them. the main funding instrument available to the european union is the lifelong learning programme 2007-2013, which is open to all languages spoken in the community, including regional and minority languages. there is no community legislation regulating the use of languages in the member states, nor does the treaty provide for powers to adopt such provisions. respect for linguistic and cultural diversity is enshrined in article 22 of the charter of fundamental rights, which provides that the union shall respect cultural and linguistic diversity. as you know, the provisions of the charter are addressed to the institutions and bodies of the union and to the member states only when they are implementing community legislation. the member states therefore remain the decision-makers in their internal language policy, including regional and minority languages. the protection of persons belonging to national minorities is an integral part of respect for human rights, and is one of the principles on which the union is founded, as stated in article 6 of the treaty on european union. member states should therefore use all legal instruments at their disposal to guarantee the rights of persons belonging to national minorities, in accordance with their own constitutional order and their obligations and commitments under international law. the latter, international law, includes, for example, the council of europe's european charter for regional or minority languages, which is a global framework in this regard, and the recommendations of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, which the european parliament has invoked on various occasions.
for the ecr group. slovak is one of the most beautiful languages in europe, but it is rarely heard in the european parliament. as a sincere friend of slovakia, a long-time supporter of its development, and a modest but active participant in slovak reforms, i would like to help my slovak friends to alleviate this disadvantage and at the same time contribute to making the slovak language heard and known by an ever wider circle. i am convinced that this will help us to preserve the diversity of the slovak language and culture. slovak does not want to develop at the expense of other languages. and that is why it is incomprehensible that the law governing the use of national minority languages defines for their use a much narrower space than for slovak. that provision merely admits the possibility of using those languages, but it regards that possibility as a negative right only, not a positive right, and thus does not regard it as a right which can be claimed and exercised in everyday life. in slovakia, the hungarian language version of forms and forms is still not used in the public offices, and there are no official translations of the laws and legal norms of the slovak republic into hungarian. this situation was further complicated by the amendment of the law on the state language. representatives of national minorities were not involved in the preparation of this amendment. one of the fundamental shortcomings of the new legislation is that it does not only concern the use of the official language, but also deeply interferes with public, commercial and private life. another major problem is that the state language law also provides for sanctions. the amendment to the slovak law on the state language violates the fundamental human rights and standards of the european union. the preservation of the law in its unchanged form would be contrary to the state interests of the slovak republic and the majority nation on the grounds that the law incites suspicion and burdens the atmosphere of good relations between the peoples living together in the territory of slovakia for more than a thousand years. slovakia is a mature, mature and self-confident democratic country and is not dependent on a culture war, nor on the law to defend itself against indigenous languages. the indigenous peoples do not threaten either the slovak statehood, or the language or culture of the slovak nation. on the contrary, the coexisting peoples will enthusiastically and selflessly protect, promote and develop the slovak language and its culture only if the slovak nation shows the same willingness to protect, promote and develop the language and culture of national minorities.
at the beginning of this agenda, we need to clarify what we can consider to be the value of the european union. what is written in the documents is either a value that the states respect or, if they do not, the union respects it. is a national minority a value or a right? well, in the czech republic, the venice decrees are currently being kept alive in order to get vaclav klaus to sign the treaty of lisbon, which means that the collective guilt of the sudeten germans and the hungarian ethnic group has been maintained. you understand the minority? is a minority language valuable? in slovakia, in the uplands, the native hungarian population is punished for using their mother tongue. there is no good enforcement of this law. as long as this law exists, it's the shame of europe. this should not be a conflict between slovakia and hungary, but a problem between the european union and slovakia, which are both committed to their values. it's a hypocritical system that puts values in words but doesn't live up to them. what does this agenda cover now? that's not the question you're trying to solve. we're going to be dealing with specific issues at this meeting, nicaragua, vietnam, laos, human rights violations. in this matter, the european union does not dare to take on the role of defending its values, but devaluing them.
mr president, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i am happy to note that in the debate initiated by my colleague bauer edit and myself, the european parliament is finally addressing the issue of the use of languages by national and linguistic minorities, and thus the discriminatory slovak language law. and i am particularly pleased that the commission has taken a clear stand this time on minority language rights. i would like to thank commissioner orban in particular for mentioning the council of europe's charter of languages among the rights and documents that can be used. i therefore consider it particularly important that mr buzek has visited poznań and made clear statements on this matter, because all of us who have been working on human rights here for many years find it outrageous that at the dawn of the lisbon treaty someone cannot live and enjoy the rights guaranteed by democracy in his own homeland, in his own minority language. in fact, the use of one's native language, a basic human right, becomes punishable by law. suggesting that minorities are second-class citizens in their own country. we are talking about 530,000 hungarians in slovakia, mr. paska, and a few tens of thousands in hungary, just for comparison. and to mr swoboda, i would just say that it is a minority fighting for the most basic human right against the majority, and not two countries fighting against each other. and the union must indeed speak out and take action against slovaks and all such laws which threaten the use of minority languages and the preservation of minority identities, since this is contrary to all international instruments and to the principles now enshrined in the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights. and i just want to remind my fellow mps that in '95 slovakia was already facing serious international criticism when the language law was first passed. as a consequence, as a precondition for the start of the accession to the eu, slovakia had to delete, among other things, the paragraphs on penalties from the legislation. so 10 years ago the union was opposed to what it is now very difficult to speak out against.
mr. president, i have to go. the slovak state language law violates the five fundamental rights of the charter of fundamental rights, which will come into force on 1 december. first of all, it discriminates on ethnic grounds, it degrades a half-million-strong hungarian community and its mother tongue into a second-class language, a second-class citizen. two, you are a gross intruder into the private sphere, as mrs. bauer edit has proven. three, it's undemocratic because it creates fear among the citizens. fourthly, it is contrary to the two council of europe documents that slovakia committed to in the accession treaty and fifthly, commissioner orbán said that the eu supports bilingualism and multilingualism, and slovakia has moved towards monolingualism, linguistic assimilation. if the eu tolerates violations of these five fundamental rights, if it does not speak out, then it will have no moral basis to criticize china, russia and other countries. there can be no double standards.
thank you for the word. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the european union is talking about a minority that has started in the right direction, where the mother tongue of deaf people, sign language, has been recognised in 10 european union member states, including, most recently, in my own country, hungary. this law says that not only the mother tongue is the sign language, but that it protects our cultural minority rights, and i would like to point out that slovakia is already ahead in this matter, because they recognized the use of slovak sign language in 1995. but the hungarian people... i have to point out that the european union cannot have a double standard. if a slovak deaf person can use sign language, then let a slovak citizen use his mother tongue.
i agree with those who said that the coexistence of people within slovakia is very good, until somehow a tension arises that disrupts this balance or makes coexistence more difficult. let me mention a few aspects of slovakia's language law that have not been mentioned before. i don't want to repeat what we talked about. on the one hand, slovakia defines itself as a nation state when we know - and this was the subject today - that about 10 percent of the hungarian community lives in slovakia and other minorities also. the language law creates an imbalance. the problem is not only that it protects the slovak language and not the minority languages that should be protected anyway - there are many positive examples in europe anyway - but also that there is no coherent, uniform law protecting minorities, which we have said many times would be necessary to keep this balance intact. and what was very good about today's debate, and it was very important, is that we heard a lot of positive examples. i sincerely hope that slovakia will follow suit in the future.
peace from god! peace be with you! peace to you from god! in multilingual europe, i wished for peace in hungarian, romanian, slovak and english. i could do that in the european parliament, but it would be risky to do it in the slovak legislature without violating the state language law. in a member state of the union, the use of languages other than the official language, including one of the official languages of europe, hungarian, may be punished by a fine. this is a world-wide scandal and shame! look at the map of slovakia, it's right in front of me. thanks to schengen, the border between slovakia and hungary has been torn down like an iron curtain, but the post-communist-chauvinist slovak government is now erecting new walls between people, language barriers. we thank president jerzy buzek for visiting the embassy in slovakia to find a solution. the european parliament should not take an ignorant and comfortable position of non-interference in this matter of public interest, but should instead make its own standards and demands, which it sets in the field of human and minority rights and linguistic rights, effective.
the slovak press what mr. gallagher just said. in the slovak press, i say, if i want to point out that the conflict that we have now cannot be called a conflict between two states or a conflict between two peoples. there are some problems with the law. i would be happy to join mr swoboda in suggesting that we move in a peaceful, calm, exit-seeking direction. you can't tell me that this law doesn't violate basic rights. well, when a mother in a slovak city, holding her four-year-old child in her arms in the hospital, is told not to breastfeed her child in hungarian for fear of medical intervention, let's not say that this is not a violation of rights. we're not even saying it's not in the law! the problem is that the law has an outlet. the law prohibits speaking in hospitals where the hungarian language is spoken sparingly. so i think there are some very serious problems here. the seeds of a radical party's rise to power have been sown. the hungarians didn't exterminate their minorities, they took them away from them.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
(the sitting was closed at 12.10 p.m.)
mr president, mr farage has said that those people who were elected last week are not people that the traffic will stop for. this is why we elected them – because we wanted to elect people who will make the traffic move for all european citizens to get a better life for themselves, and this is what they will do. mr van rompuy and mrs cathy ashton are for the people, and the 480 million europeans will know it soon. i think this is the stake. we have to stand up for them. we have to save their personal integrity. and, mr farage, i would like to quote a hungarian saying to you. it is good that you are here because, if the monkey goes up the tree, it is easier to see its backside!
recently, in line with the lisbon treaty, two important decisions were taken on personal matters. the european union now has a permanent president and a high representative for foreign affairs. do these personal decisions have important messages for us? yes, there is. we have talked a lot about the balance that the european commission has between the council and the parliament. i think there is an imbalance, because the fact that the government of the union, the commission, has a monopoly on initiating legislation and, where appropriate, has a quasi-judicial role, means that it has the ultimate power, and we put the stamp of democracy on it. the lisbon treaty does not specify the role of the permanent president, obviously depending on how charismatic, how determined a personality he is. the decision is that power, control, should remain with - you say so, obviously - the commission, which represents the common interest of the nations, and we say that it should remain with the leader of an empire that controls the lives of 500 million people from the centre. it would also be very important to ensure that we take a firm stand on the immediate task when we talk about the climate conference, but we must take a firm stand against the united states, and i hope perhaps that president barroso has left because he is currently on the phone on this subject.
mr president, and mrs wallström. the ratification process of the lisbon treaty has been completed and the heads of state or government have elected the first eu foreign minister, although not by name, in the person of commissioner catherine ashton. the next task will be to set up the eu external action service. i think it is important to take this into account in the establishment of this service and i ask the swedish presidency, mrs cecilia malmström, personally, to pay attention to the foreign service, because the new member states are extremely poorly represented in dg relax and dg enlargement. and when you allocate national quotas to countries, member states, you have to take into account that the new member states are essentially barely inside these two headquarters. so they shouldn't be discriminated against, because if the foreign service is to be credible in the eyes of the people, it has to be proportional. it is very important that this proportionality, this uniform treatment, is applied in the foreign service. it's in all of our interests. i would ask the european commission and the council to pay attention to this element. of the 143 union delegations, only one is from a new member state. that fact speaks for itself.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the copenhagen meeting is the fourth item on the european council's agenda. there are two major points of disagreement which prevent the european union from forming a unified position. one is the sale of carbon dioxide allowances after 2012. the commission and some of the old eu member states want to ban the sale of quotas after 2012. nine countries, the czech republic, poland, hungary, romania, the three baltic states, slovakia and bulgaria, insist on being able to sell their quotas after 2012. these countries, including hungary, have fulfilled, failed to fulfil or exceeded their kyoto commitments. for example, hungary, which committed to an 8% reduction, has implemented a 23% reduction. therefore, the commission's position is totally unacceptable to hungary and we insist most strongly that we can sell our co2 allowances after 2012. and i would ask my colleagues from bulgaria, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, the baltic countries - regardless of party - to be equally consistent in their adherence to this position.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. my fellow members of the house of representatives! at the forthcoming european council, member states are expected to agree on the main principles represented at the copenhagen climate summit. i think it is important that the issue of energy efficiency should not be overlooked alongside the issue of emission quotas and financial aid to developing countries. the european union tends to forget about this easy prey. this is particularly disadvantageous because in some parts of europe, improving energy efficiency is cheaper than any other solution for reducing emissions. this leads to two conclusions. on the one hand, the european union should seek to bring energy efficiency standards closer together worldwide by adopting a new climate regime. on the other hand, energy efficiency aid should be given a stronger role in the future long-term eu budget, especially in relation to the reconstruction programmes for buildings in the former socialist countries. in this area, spectacular savings can be made with relatively little financial investment.
madam president, i am very grateful for this opportunity to share a few thoughts with you. enlargement has rightly been called one of the most successful policies of the european union; many of us in this debate have said this. and the idea that the central values of europe – democracy, human rights, solidarity – should encompass all the states of europe has been, and will remain, at the heart of europe’s identity. the europe that exists was built around the proposition that, through integration, the states of europe will gradually accept a peaceful resolution of conflicts, but this process does not come without effort. the acceding states must undergo a thorough transformation in order to meet the requirements of eu membership. the process, it should be stressed, is voluntary. no state is coerced into joining, but, in order to join the eu, certain conditions must be met. at the same time, precisely because meeting the conditions requires a major effort, acceding states must also be encouraged to make the effort involved and not only that. the obligations that go with eu membership must be transferred from paper to practice. without implementation the process remains empty. this is the message that the albertini resolution is sending to prospective candidates for eu membership. the eu is ready to accept the states of the western balkans and turkey as full members, but it is up to them to meet the conditions that the eu has set.
in writing. as the representative of hungary, the neighbour of the western balkans, i support the western balkan countries' aspirations to join the eu with all my means. the european commission's initiative to lift the visa requirement for serbia, macedonia and montenegro from 1 january 2010 was an important step in this direction. the european parliament's proposal to abolish the visa requirement with effect from 19 december would be both symbolic and practical. the european union could hardly give a greater christmas gift to the hungarian people of the past, who are bound by a thousand threads to hungary, to their families and friends on both sides of the border, than free travel. i hope that the member states will give their blessing to this decision later this month. visa liberalisation is a positive response to the genuine european integration efforts of the western balkan countries. serbia has made particularly significant progress in recent times. the government of prime minister mirko cvetkovic has been successful in tackling corruption, according to a recent commission report, and has made very important progress on minority rights. the law on national councils was adopted by the serbian parliament and the statute of the vojvodina will be submitted to the serbian parliament next week after encouraging preliminary negotiations. in addition to many positive aspects, further efforts must be made to completely curb ethnically motivated violent crimes and recurrent hungarian beatings in vajdaság!
in writing. – violence against women is a serious concern in the world. women – and children – are the most vulnerable part of society, those who have to face abuse the most often. for instance, in europe it is estimated that 20-25% of women are victims of physical violence during their grown-up lives, while 10% of women even have to abide sexual violence. as for domestic violence, 98% is violence by men against women, and therefore we need to consider this as a gender-related issue. when talking about violence we are not talking only about psychical violence: and thus the results above would be much worse. i believe that we cannot accept such figures and the reality that affects especially women. the european socialists have long been calling for effective protection and for good programmes. the daphne program is a good start, but we need to do more at eu member state level. i think that it is very important that the spanish presidency has decided to make a priority of the fight against violence. no social problem can be solved completely in just six months. therefore i will do everything to ensure that the belgian and hungarian presidencies continue the work began by the spanish presidency.
in writing. – coercive sterilization is one of the most grievous forms of violence against women and an impermissible violation of human rights. in several member states, roma women have been subject to coercive sterilization aiming to reduce their “high, unhealthy” birth rate. despite several cases being recorded and judicial verdicts having been reached in favour of the victims, adequate compensations and official apologies in most cases are still pending. i would herein like to welcome the apologies of prime minister jan fischer, as well as the recent motion by the government of the czech republic requiring that by 31 december 2009 the ministry of health would undertake a series of measures to ensure that such violations do not occur anymore. i hope that other countries, such as slovakia will adjoin the czech initiative and will establish a mechanism to provide adequate compensation to women whose reproductive capacities were destroyed without their consent. it is indispensable that member states investigate without delay the extreme human rights abuses against roma women, penalise the perpetrators and ensure that all victims are identified and provided redress. it's the common goal of european countries to safeguard the health and physical integrity of all women in the continent.
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, i would like to welcome the fact that the political groups have managed to agree on the text of the decision to be taken on the subject of ratification and implementation of the conventions reviewed by the international labour organisation, which we will support. as you know, the international labour organization is one of the oldest international organizations. it was created in 1919 with the basic purpose of creating labour regulations on the development of working conditions, on difficult working conditions against exploitation. later, his activities were extended to social policy and the system of professional cooperation. we believe that the european people's party sees the labour standards established by the international labour organisation as helping to mitigate the harmful effects of international competition and thus increasing the chances of achieving balanced economic growth. this is particularly important in the period, perhaps already emerging from the current crisis, and the legitimacy of the standards is undoubtedly enhanced by the fact that they were created by a specific democratic process, following a tripartite process involving the cooperation of governments, employers and trade unions. the european union has a duty to protect workers' rights and obligations, and to ensure that they are respected. at the same time, it must not be overlooked that the european union, as a community, cannot ratify conventions, and only certain member states can do so, which in any case raises the question of the correct application of community competence and subsidiarity. the text therefore - very rightly - calls on the union to define precisely which legal areas and standards fall within the community's competence and which fall within the competence of each member state. so, if we can take account of the principle of subsidiarity, we support the recommendation to be made and thus to facilitate the ratification of the convention as soon as possible.
a growing number of scientists worldwide are predicting that by 2030 there will be severe shortages of oil, water, and food all at once. but the first of these -- and it seems to be -- is that we have to deal with food shortages, because there are already 1 billion hungry people on the planet. the number of hungry people is growing faster than the world's population, so while today one in six people on earth is hungry, we have to face the fact that in a few decades, one in five or one in four will be hungry. two children die of hunger every minute. clearly, the solution to this situation is not to abolish the european union's common agricultural policy. the european union can only be a strong actor in the world, the european union can only be strong if it has a strong common agricultural policy. but famine is not limited to africa. there is hunger in the european union. because while there are regions of the european union where people spend less than 10% of their income on food, there are also regions -- parts of bulgaria, southern regions of romania -- where people spend more than 50% of their income on food on average. and there are people in this -- this is the average -- who spend much, much more on food than that. and that's worth highlighting because we have to face the fact that every time we create a new regulation that makes it more expensive to produce agricultural products, that reduces efficiency -- say animal welfare regulations -- because it increases the amount of feed needed to produce 1 kg of meat, we're not only doing bad things to the environment, because we're going to emit more co2, but each of these measures increases the number of hungry people, and it may be that the very amount of feed that needs to be used as surplus -- say in poultry -- is going to be missing from the table of a hungry child.
in writing. the european union has the strictest and highest standards of food safety in the world. however, compliance with these rules imposes significant additional costs on european farmers. european products must not be placed at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis products from third countries simply because they have been produced under lower food standards. nor should products of poor quality or unsafe products endanger the health of european consumers. in particular, meat products may present a wide range of health risks if they are produced under inappropriate conditions. the european commission and the member states should therefore ensure that the same conditions apply to meat products produced within the eu and those originating from third countries.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. in my view, we members of the european parliament have a responsibility to all european taxpayers to ensure that their tax is properly, properly and lawfully spent in the european union. we are responsible to all taxpaying european citizens, regardless of their nationality. my fellow members of the house of representatives! i believe that the european court of auditors has done a thorough and professional job in preparing its report for 2008, and i would like to thank president caldeira and all the members of the court. i also believe that there is a good level of professional cooperation between the european court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, which is a guarantee that parliament can properly fulfil its audit function. commissioner kallas also acknowledged that there had been a clear improvement in the financial management of the european commission in recent years. i also agree with my colleagues who say that the court of auditors' report is not only positive but also a cause for concern. of these, it is worth noting that the court of auditors found an error rate of 11% in the use of cohesion funds. in my view, it is essential to correct errors by identifying precisely who, when, where and what errors were committed, because this is the only guarantee that these errors will be corrected in the future.
mr president, when i meet my voters i often describe this institution as a computer, where the member states provide the hardware, the commission provides the software, parliament is probably the keyboard where you can interact, and in that sense the control by the court of auditors is certainly the control panel of the computer. we never purchase a computer on the basis of looking at the control panel, but none of our computers works for a long time without a proper control panel system inside. i would like to congratulate the court of auditors on being an appropriate control panel for this institution and improving, with every year, its own work, but also reminding us to do our own homework on improvement. what i learn from the court of auditors’ reports after being here for six years is that we often make mistakes and that we should try to remind colleagues back in the member states what they have to do. but for me the most important message is that, when the lisbon treaty comes into force, we need to reduce the complexity, to provide better conditions for our expenditure at local level and to get the money in time to those who are applying for it, whether they are small- and medium-sized enterprises, researchers or farmers, back in our countries. the message for us is that we have to improve skills at local level. we have to further reduce the complexity at european level. we have to go for better cooperation among member states’ auditing systems and we have to work together in the future. thank you for the last five years of cooperation. (the president cut off the speaker.)
madam president! i agree with congressman audy. the council is sorely missed, as are the leaders of the political parties. i myself, as vice-president of the socialist group, felt that the other group presidencies did not consider this debate important either, but the council's presentation was the most flawed.
another example is that we've gone from the gutenberg galaxy to the digital galaxy. the slowness of the legislation is the reason business has gotten ahead of us. the legislature needs to be up and running. we must prevent anarchy, we must prevent monopolies from forming. we must guarantee freedom for readers, writers and merchants alike. we need to ensure cultural diversity, the equality of minority languages, and we need to do everything we can to tackle digital illiteracy. that's our job, and it's not a small one.
now, when we talk about the digitization of the world's book heritage by a private company, google, it seems like we're dealing with the present. there was a speech that said, "here we are, we're going to get a printed book". but what we are opening up now will be an opportunity or a liability for future generations, and we have to take care of that. so the main issue here is not, as i said, the impact on the european cultural industry. no, a decision like this affects the culture of europe. so there is a very real risk that one business will become the owner of the world's cultural heritage or, in the future, the cultural present. it is therefore essential that europe develops its own clear strategy in this area.
mr. president, i have to go. it is a serious development that this matter has now been brought to the agenda with urgency. the hungarian delegation from transylvania also initiated a discussion of this issue. we thank the various groups for their participation and support, but we are surprised that the socialist group has withdrawn its signature from this motion for a resolution. i regret that the debate the day before yesterday omitted from the draft text in its entirety certain parts concerning criticism of the communist regimes and the protection of minority communities. the eu should finally face up honestly and openly to the legacy of communism that has been withdrawn and to communism that survives today. in china, too.
almost all of europe's agriculture is in crisis, caused not only by the global economic crisis and recession, the narrowing of the internal and external markets, but also by the cap policy, the neoliberal policy pursued by the european commission in previous years. this has contributed greatly to the current crisis. if agriculture has such big profitability problems now, what if the agricultural budget is slashed drastically after 2013, as many want? europe's food security will be called into question. the situation of livestock farming, pig farming and fruit and vegetable producers is particularly worrying at present. it is good that the commissioner wants to give more money to the production and marketing organisations, but this is still not enough to solve the problems of the sector, and it is very alarming that the european union has gone from beef to beef net importer for six years now, we have become vulnerable to external markets.
it is very important that we talk about the crisis in the agricultural sectors, because several plans have been leaked about how they want to reduce agricultural subsidies after 2013. we must always remember the serious consequences of the liberal measures implemented in recent times. let us learn from these examples, not repeat those mistakes. agriculture will become much more important in the coming period, as more and more people go hungry on earth. and as far as simplifications go, unfortunately, farmers are finding that whenever they talk about simplifying, it doesn't really happen, they have to fit into more and more complex systems. new animal welfare measures are being introduced one after another. all of these add costs that their competitors do not have to face and each new animal welfare measure results in more energy consumption and more co2 emissions.
in the last five years, the european union's trade deficit has increased at an alarming rate, by three and a half times. the growth of the trade deficit at this rate is unsustainable. half of this increase in the trade deficit is due to trade with china. this trade deficit has been significantly reduced by the global economic crisis, but half of the remaining trade deficit, almost the entire one, is equal to our trade deficit with china in the first half of 2009. i recently read a book by an american author that describes the following example. fish caught off the coast of europe are frozen and then shipped to china. and they thaw it, debon it, then they freeze it again and ship it back to europe, because the labor costs are so much cheaper in china, it's worth the huge energy costs of freezing, transporting, freezing and transporting the fish back to europe. for every job lost in europe, hundreds of kilograms of co2 emissions are added. the current trading system encourages the growth of co2 emissions. more unemployed europeans equals more co2 emissions. china has tripled its co2 emissions since kyoto because there are no sanctions attached to it. the new wto rules are only acceptable if climate protection considerations are incorporated into them. if they're not encouraging, but inhibiting the growth of co2 emissions. sanctions are needed.
the rapporteur. - thank you very much, madam president, and thank you very much for this clarification, because it is very important that we now talk about the microfinance facility. i would like to welcome commissioner spidla to the next debate. let me start by saying that when i became the rapporteur for this programme, i thought it would be very easy, because there was a broad consensus and support, which was also reflected in the debate. there are many reasons why this aid was so widespread, on the one hand, it is one of the tools of crisis management that will help those who are in the most difficult situation, who become unemployed and who cannot otherwise access bank loans, help, due to the financial crisis, on the other hand. on the other hand, the tool is typically one that doesn't give you a fish, but teaches you how to fish and unleashes exactly the creativity that we need most for a positive outcome to the crisis. the third aspect, which has had and has widespread support, is that i think this is the dream of the finance ministers, in terms of the european union's resources being multiplied. partly with resources from the european investment bank, partly with resources from other commercial banks, the european union will become the primary risk-taker and thus make it easier for other actors to take on risk. as i said, there is a broad support for the programme in terms of content, and i think that it is because of these elements that there was a debate in the discussions with the council and the commission on the question of where the european union would finance this particular primary risk-taking, and the other point of debate was the size of the fund that could be launched and that could really be hoped to attract other serious funds. the original proposal of the council and the commission was for eur 100 million to come from the progress programme, which is primarily intended to help develop policies to combat social exclusion and promote equal opportunities. we have said from the beginning that there is no way to jeopardise progress, which is even more necessary in the context of the crisis, and that it is not acceptable to approach progress to the extent that it would actually jeopardise it. parliament was very compromising in the debate, we had three informal trialogue sessions, one of them lasting until the early hours, where we offered to have some non-threatening access to progress. we have offered that we can imagine starting the programme with not 150 million but 100 million compared to the original proposal. parliament's 2010 budget proposal identified eur 25 million as a resource to launch the programme during 2010, or even at the beginning of 2010, and was able to identify this resource without touching progress in 2010. we have asked for this to be removed from today's agenda because we have not been able to reach an agreement here. we also felt that the problem was that the presidency had not been given a mandate during the trilogue and that it was very difficult for it to give a meaningful reflection on our proposals. i think it is important that parliament votes as soon as possible, this week, to launch this programme with 100 million at the beginning of 2010, because this means that it is really a crisis management tool, where speed is particularly important. i sincerely hope that commissioner špidla can help us to get the original commission proposal to withdraw the 100 million for progress back to the commission so that this programme can start as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. - my dear officer, my dear colleagues. as we have seen in previous debates, the economic crisis and its recovery have been of concern to all of us and have been widely reported. as the people's party coordinator of the employment and social affairs committee, i would just like to confirm that in every single dossier that comes before us, we support one of the most important elements for us, namely the protection of jobs, the creation of jobs, the creation of new jobs. let me remind you of the fact that the issue of micro-credit has long been supported by the people's party. in 2009, my former colleague becsey zsolt's own-initiative report was first brought before the house. based on previous hungarian experience, still in operation today, this instrument was called the széchenyi card, where the purpose was the same as in the present case: the disbursement of small, short-term loans to small businesses. think of the butcher, the baker, the vegetarian, or the pharmacist. they're in the middle of a crisis. they employ a lot of people, in some countries this sector employs more than 90% of people, in our country for example, it is more than 90% of companies, of enterprises, and they don't need a lot of money, they don't want to pay a lot of interest, they need a revolving loan, they need a temporary help if necessary. the commission's proposal helps to solve this problem and, as the rapporteur has said, it is indeed accompanied by a broad support and consensus. i therefore think it is important that we reach agreement on the question of funding as soon as possible, and we support the 35 proposals put forward jointly by the epp, the socialists, the liberals and the conservatives because we believe that this is a guarantee that we will be able to adopt this instrument at first reading and launch it as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. − thank you for your supportive comments and suggestions. let me share the views of those who have expressed their disappointment at the council's lack of any willingness to compromise and let me tell the commissioner that the message of moving progress funds to progress funds alone is that, in the case of social inclusion funds, the only way to imagine support for the most vulnerable is to take the funds away from the same place where they serve the same purpose. we can't find any other source. i think that's unacceptable. co-decision also means that everyone, every party, has to take action. parliament had several proposals and several offers in this regard, while the council and the commission had no proposal to help the agreement. let me tell elisabeth schroeder that the fact that we are defending progress here - it is a shared conviction that we are willing to compromise on this - is that we believe that this programme must be established as soon as possible. so it really helps if this can go live in early 2010. then, if parliament votes this week, you have done what you can to get this programme started at the beginning of 2010, because next year parliament will probably vote on the 25 million from its own resources, and if parliament votes on the total, it will be enough for the commission to conclude the agreements that will enable the programme to be launched. i think this is an expression of the constructivity of parliament. i certainly think this programme is very important in terms of social inclusion and i would ask my colleagues who supported it not to take the full resources from progress but to lobby their own governments to do so, because the governments of these countries sit on the council.
the rapporteur. - thank you for your time, mr president. minister! officer, please! my fellow officers! here, at the beginning of the budget debate, i have to say that i don't want to argue so much as to say thank you. i would like to thank the council and the commission for the good cooperation which has enabled us to reach agreement and to put forward a proposal which is, in a sense, a joint one. but this gratitude must also extend to the various political groups in this house, because if these groups had not been able to work together and to represent together values that are important to parliament and to the european citizens, the budget would not have been implemented in any way. a year ago i was given the task of being the rapporteur for the 2010 budget, and we immediately started to formulate the political expectations of this parliament, the guidelines, and this parliament discussed this in the spring. this was a very important decision, and one which also taught us lessons for the future, since we were months ahead of the draft preliminary budget, and the european commission was aware of parliament's opinion and more or less took it into account when drawing up the preliminary budget. i think we should do the same timing in the years to come. what did we want? we knew that europe's economy was in crisis. we felt, and we still feel, that this budget should contribute to the management of the crisis. we discussed this with the council, because obviously the solution to the crisis is to spend less on europe. it is not a solution, but it can contribute, if we use money well here, and there is a very strong emphasis on this good use, then the european budget can appear not as a burden but as part of the solution to the crisis. in this sense, we wanted to increase competitiveness, including through research and development programmes, and we wanted to build on it, to contribute to it, in the common energy policy. more than eur 11 billion is being spent on these objectives. we wanted to stimulate the economy, especially through cohesion policy. this is a 36 billion dollar opportunity. during the year it became clear that there were serious problems in the dairy sector, for example, which were not the result of the general economic crisis, but parliament felt it was necessary to stand by the farmers and the 300 million was born, we call it the milk fund, which is not a permanent fund, but it is an expansion of 300 million. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. but we also had to face the fact that we didn't have enough room to maneuver. there are chapters in which there are no reserves, so that an interim review of the multiannual budgetary plan is inevitable. this is very much needed, but at the same time it is very much needed that member states use the money that is available for growth much more purposefully and carefully. only then can we face the european citizens, the taxpayers, whose money we are spending to try to make the union work better and more efficiently.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the eu budget has been suffering from a number of structural problems. it is too big and it keeps growing. there are built-in automatic increases for many items, especially for the operating costs of bureaucracy without any apparent improvement in output performance. all budgets are supposed to be mirror images of some economic-policy considerations. the eu budget is an exception. it does not reflect any consistent set of common values. instead, it tries to justify an eu-wide policy of neo-keynesian demand management by spending more on a great majority of items without any underlying structural reforms. take the example of the globalisation adjustment fund. half a billion euros is supposed to be spent on mitigating the negative impact of globalisation. instead, member states are having a hard time putting together rational proposals for a couple of tens of millions. on the one hand, it is a tremendous waste of scarce resources; on the other hand, it is a prime example of distorting the rules of creative destruction in capitalism. the committee on budgets was unhappy to see a new item – the cost of decommissioning the kozloduy nuclear power plant – coming up at the last minute. it was a sign of bad planning. nevertheless, not only the decommissioning of kozloduy, but even support for the construction of a new power plant, would be more important than spending in the milk fund with this untimely and inefficient increase. as if it were part of a beneficial demand boost, the eu bureaucracy gets undeserved and unnecessary wage increases. when the eu is struggling with a once-in-a-lifetime deep recession, it is just not appropriate to shield ourselves and our own administration from the negative consequences. would it not be more appropriate to accept even a nominal wage decline and hence boost employment in the name of european solidarity? it is also a worrying sign of inadequate planning that the disparity between commitment and payment appropriations is growing in the case of a large number of items. since we cannot incur a deficit, we push more and more commitments to the future. it is tantamount to mortgaging the future of the eu and undermining prospective discretionary spending beyond repair. many meps are concentrating on pet projects and pork-barrel spending. the budget should not be used as a backward-looking tool preserving the status quo, but as a forward-looking instrument to sharpen the institutional regulatory framework of the eu which, in turn, should aim at strengthening the single market. less protection for vested interests is the key for the eu to avoid sinking into irrelevance on the world stage.
the european commission plans to make substantial cuts in two areas in its 2009 budget amendment. one is competitiveness, including the framework programmes for research and development. and that's been a priority. if we blame the applicants, then the need to reduce bureaucracy is even more pressing. the other area is the reduction of the rural development fund by €1.6 billion. this fund is intended to serve the population of the rural area, maintain or restore it. hungary is particularly affected. we have large estates with a predominance of agriculture, they receive area-based subsidies, while their use of live labor is minimal. the rapporteur has spoken strongly about the amendment. you said the main areas are being looted by the commission. my question is why are you supporting the adoption of this?
my fellow members of parliament! my dear officer. in the current financial and economic crisis, particular attention should be paid to growth, competitiveness, jobs, better and simpler implementation of the cohesion and structural funds. in addition, priority is given to improving the security of energy supply and transport, internal security, demographic challenges and climate change. we therefore welcome the considerable successes achieved by parliament in the draft budget before us in relation to the economic recovery plan and the support for energy investments. we welcome the smaller successes, such as subsidies for milk producers or, after a long debate, microfinance for smes. i would mention smart energy projects and support for lifelong learning. we must emphasize that the result is that we have managed to raise 2.4 billion euros to stimulate the economy. i am very pleased that we have been able to secure the confirmation of the galileo budget. the nearly €2 billion earmarked for energy projects is perhaps the most significant achievement the european parliament can make for itself. we have been able to support the safe closure of the kosloduy nuclear power plant in bulgaria, and i want to emphasize the word safe. the commission has also been successful in getting support for milk producers into the budget at the request of the european parliament. we must also stress that parliament has acted responsibly and we must acknowledge that the budgetary reserves have been allocated wisely. at the same time, our reserves are running low. the 2010 budget is a source of pride for parliament. i would like to congratulate mr. surjan and mr. manka, who are reporting. in the future, our task is to ensure that the lisbon treaty not only strengthens parliament's powers, but that the eu budget, thanks to the reform, also makes life easier for european businesses and citizens. for this i wish us all strength and perseverance in the years to come! thank you for your attention.
it is perhaps no coincidence that the preparation of the 2010 budget has received such attention. the worsening unemployment and the difficulties caused by the economic crisis are all well justified. as the rapporteur for the committee on social affairs and employment, i would like to thank mr surján, the rapporteur, for the professional way in which he has handled the dossiers. in the opinion i registered in the employment committee, we had previously defined the following priorities. clearly, we have given the highest priority to measures to mitigate the impact of the financial and economic crisis on citizens. we have supported all the proposals, including the 8.4% increase to increase competitiveness, which we hope will preserve jobs or create new jobs and contribute to the recovery plan, the renewed lisbon strategy, the lifelong learning programme. the tasks of the social fund, vocational training, the acquisition of professional qualifications and lifelong learning have been further emphasised, and i consider it particularly important that 25 million euro have been allocated to finance the future microfinance facility in 2010. we had a discussion yesterday about this new instrument and hopefully we will soon be able to agree on further details of the funding. i consider it important that the budget emphasises the importance of financing activities and policies under budget line 1/a. they promote sustainable development, job creation. i would particularly welcome elements that seek to improve the situation of smes and that support the progress programme, the eures advisory and information network, pilot projects and the european globalisation and adaptation fund. in addition, i feel that the objectives of the committee on social affairs and employment can be reflected in a significant part of the budget, and i thank the rapporteurs for this.
mr president, like everybody else, i find this an extremely good budget. a great deal of work has gone into it, and congratulations to all those who were involved in it. what i would like to do at this stage of the debate is to try and look at the big picture. extremely important contributions have been made about particular issues, but we have to look at the broad european context in order to understand the significance of what we are talking about. it seems to me that, in a democracy, every institution has to have a budget, and the institution must account for what it is spending to those who are actually making the contributions and who are providing the resources. this particular budget is, in consequence, loaded with responsibility. in fact, it is loaded with the responsibility of being the budget of an institution which is particularly committed to transparency and accountability. not least, given our commitment to transparency and accountability, this will enhance good governance and, in an ideal world, it will increase trust between those who spend and those who provide. perhaps i should stress that is in an ideal world – reality is often different. the particular significance of this transparency is that it can help to overcome the remoteness that exists between individuals and those who exercise power. this remoteness – i think we can all agree on this – is an unavoidable feature of modern life, so every institution should do what it can to bridge the gap. on top of that, there are difficult times ahead for europe, and i think that enhances insecurity among citizens. what we can do in this context is to illuminate the issues by promoting debate and discussion which should, incidentally, include disagreement. from this perspective, i think the budget is an excellent step in the right direction, and i would like to give my strong support to it.
the rapporteur. − if we want to increase the sense of security of europeans in 2010, this budget must be implemented efficiently and skillfully, because that is why we have increased energy security, we are supporting job creation, we are introducing the microfinance facility. we support research and development, lifelong learning. we want to help the dairy industry, mitigate the harmful effects of climate change as much as possible. we have done this by using up every last penny of the multiannual financial framework, which means that the budget is now completely inflexible, there are no reserves. that's why there's all this urgency about the midterm review, which i'm going to repeat myself. the commission and the member states have a special responsibility for future success. we can only look the taxpayers in the eye if we use the available budget not only lawfully but appropriately. if a resource is meant to create new jobs, then let the jobs grow. if a resource is to catch up with underdeveloped regions, it should really increase the amount of gdp produced locally. only in these conditions can we say that we have got value for our money, that the european citizens have made the sacrifice worthwhile, because it is a sacrifice to put together the european budget of 123 billion now. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i hope that this parliament will firmly support this proposal and that on thursday we will give the citizens of europe a good budget, which is not only legally valid but also morally valid.
in writing. my colleague from the people's party, mr surján, and mr manňka have done a very serious job. as in a budget debate in a national parliament, it is necessary to clarify what a budget proposal contains and what its message is to society. although accessibility was not mentioned in the report, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that, following the decision of the general affairs council on 26 november, the eu, as a regional organisation, is acceding to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. in this light, and in line with paragraph 43 of the report and annex 2, the joint declaration on the buildings policy is welcomed. however, it is very important that the accessibility of construction and other infrastructure projects is achieved while respecting other important requirements (e.g. energy efficiency, etc.) the subsequent costs are always much higher for accessibility. the ep also wants to see the safety requirements include the blind: clearly visible signs, tracking devices that can be detected on the floor, etc. should be used when designing buildings and when they are put into use. furthermore, in the case of language rights, i would consider it important that, in parallel with the possibility of accessing buildings, (electronic) documents should also have adequate information on how visually impaired people can access them (what are the recommended software).
in writing. − i am very pleased that the european parliament has today approved by a large majority the report on the european microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion. the proposed microcredit scheme has the potential to make a significant contribution to social cohesion, create new jobs and significantly mitigate the adverse effects of the financial and economic crisis. in the context of the global recession, it is particularly important to provide new opportunities for citizens excluded from the labour market and the traditional credit market and to pave the way for stable and sustainable self-employment. it is also important that there is a simple financial instrument for those wishing to start a business in disadvantaged regions and for the most vulnerable groups, which allows them to start or boost businesses despite the perceived high risk, low margin and risk of default. the vast majority of european workers are employed in small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises. therefore, in order to prevent these firms from losing or even increasing their employment potential, they should be given appropriate support, which may be of a small amount that the traditional banking sector is not able to provide. the european parliament made clear in today's vote that the codecision procedure should be completed as soon as possible in order to make the microfinance facility available as early as 2010.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i am very impressed by the very thorough picture that the president-in-office and the commissioner have painted of the present state of relations. the eu’s relationship with georgia does raise very far-reaching questions about what we are about, what the eu is, and what we aspire to be. it could be that this relationship could turn out to be a test case of our commitment to values of solidarity, human rights and democracy – our proclaimed values. it is clear enough that georgia – both the elites and society – see the country as belonging to europe. at the same time that country – let us admit it – is in a precarious situation, as russia, the former colonial power, has not given up its aspiration to reclaim some kind of overlordship over georgia or, indeed, over the rest of the southern caucasus. it is in this sense that there are many people in russia who do not take georgia’s status as an independent state seriously, and take the view that georgia’s return to russia is just a question of time. this leaves the great majority of people in georgia feeling decidedly insecure. that insecurity has been markedly intensified in the light of last year’s conflict with russia. no country likes to be stripped of its sovereign territory, as georgia was. all this affects the eu – hence the significance of the eastern partnership. georgia sees itself as having a european future, not least as a guarantee of its security. obviously there is also the southern caucasian energy corridor, which is a future lifeline for europe’s energy supplies. these would be compelling enough reasons for the european union to take georgia’s european aspirations seriously, as we obviously do, but there is also a final argument, which is that, if europe neglects these aspirations, then our own credibility in the world will come into question and our opponents will be delighted by this demonstration of europe’s weakness.
i would like to welcome commissioner ferrero-waldner and especially cecilia malmström, who is here as a minister now but will be here as a commissioner shortly, and to say a few words about thanking you very much for the report. on the one hand, it contained very important information. not just because of geographical proximity, but partly because of russia's foreign policy thinking in its spheres of influence, and also because of its assessment of energy security. in this respect, the eastern partnership programme is of paramount importance, as it can differentiate and yet clearly strengthen ties with these countries. georgia is the most committed country to eu values in the caucasus region. i would like to highlight and emphasize a few things, first of all the preparation of the visa facilitation procedure. this is important not only because of the people-to-people ties, but also because we know that south ossetian and abkhazian citizens who have russian passports are already enjoying the benefits of this, and this is creating a tension that is making the situation worse. the other thing that i want to emphasize is that in four of the eastern neighbourhood countries, there are frozen conflicts that we need to pay particular attention to. and lastly, i would like to thank commissioner ferrero-waldner for all the efforts she has made for this region, to bring it closer to the european union.
first of all, we need to find a way to avoid similar crises. disruptions originating in the global financial system are sweeping the world and directly affecting the real economy, as businesses are denied access to the credit needed to keep the economy running. the lesson is clear. it is clear that the belief in the self-regulation of the market, in its omnipotence, must be overthrown and the regulatory role of the state must be accepted and exercised. we talk about stimulating the economy, but obviously the ultimate goal is to protect jobs through this. this means that in europe too, support for smes is a priority, as they provide the majority of jobs. the conditions for access to credit are a fundamental issue. yes, banks were operating rationally, as we heard from mr. almunia, for example in hungary, where all commercial banks are subsidiaries of foreign-owned banks, so he tried to curb loans in a way that was his rationality, which also crippled the domestic economy. of course, direct subsidies are also needed, which the union also allows, but this does not require governments like the current hungarian government, which supports the establishment of multinational companies primarily, instead of small and medium-sized enterprises. today we discussed the issue of the rural development fund, amending the 2009 budget law of the european commission. the commission has cut back considerably, drastically, on this expenditure in its proposal, whereas this is precisely what is needed to maintain the population. and why are we talking about this region separately? because it became much more vulnerable than the western part of europe, and this goes back to the 1990s, when it became clear that despite the vain hope in hungary that our economy would be independent in this democracy, the increasingly huge burden of repaying inherited debts, and the exploitation of the depreciated natural and human resources of this area resulted in serious and large economic revenues in the western countries. i have to say that now, when it is really justified to give more aid to this region, we are talking about partial compensation.
my fellow members of parliament! the crisis has shown that the countries of the east-central european region outside the euro area are much more vulnerable than those using the single currency. their strong dependence on exports and foreign capital, as well as the high foreign exchange indebtedness of the population, has led to a slower recovery than that of those enjoying the security of the euro area. if solidarity between member states does not work in practice, and not just in slogans, the union's internal cohesion will be reduced, and this will undermine the performance of the union as a whole. and this solidarity does not require new eu instruments, let alone a handout. the existing opportunities and resources must be used rationally. the european central bank can thus help to maintain the continued liquidity of the region's banks, the european investment bank can help to provide targeted loans to the regions' smes, and the eu institutions can help to adapt the rules for the use of cohesion and structural funds to the emergency situation. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that many people like to think of central and eastern europe as a single bloc, even though these countries are very diverse and have different exit strategies. for example, hungary has used up half of its reserves after nearly eight years of mismanagement under socialism, and is now being forced to cut back, in stark contrast to the crisis management practices of european countries, which are based on economic recovery. while western european governments are already thinking about exit strategies, some of the countries in central and eastern europe that have been hardest hit by the crisis will still face a severe recession in 2010. differentiation is therefore very important when designing exit strategies. the eu leaders should not create uniform rules that would only worsen the situation of individual countries and thus the population. the financial system should be re-regulated with a view to ensuring that the tightening of capital requirements does not create an unequal competitive situation between banks. the banks in central and eastern europe that had proved to be healthy were not recapitalised and would therefore have had more difficulty in complying with the stricter capital requirements than their rescued counterparts in western europe. this would reduce their already buoyant lending capacity and ultimately make smes the victims, which should be avoided.
mr. president, i have to go. my fellow members of parliament! let me begin my one-minute speech by thanking my colleagues in the euro area for considering it important to be present at the debate. solidarity starts here, that they're in this debate. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. this is the forced course of the twenty-year accession process, which has caused serious economic difficulties for these countries and required a great deal of social solidarity from their inhabitants. they had no eurozone protection mechanism and were much more vulnerable to the crisis. and this is the proportion of the sme sector and the proportion of people employed in it compared to the european union. overall, i believe that in order to boost the european union and the economies of the countries of central and eastern europe, we must tackle the triple objectives of employment, fiscal balance and economic growth together. i believe that the sme package contained some of these elements. there is a clear need to bridge the financial difficulties of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. the european central bank's support mechanisms would certainly be needed here. the smaller an enterprise is, the more difficult it is for the union to reach it. (the president cut the speaker off)
a few very simple questions to mr almunia, without the difficulty of translation: what do you think of the modification of the maastricht treaty criteria to include, perhaps, a new criterion relating to the balance of payments, a ceiling on the current account deficit and the external debt? what do you think of the exchange rate policy? is it better to maintain a fixed or a flexible exchange rate in times of crisis? and as for the countries that have adopted the euro without being members of the european union, is it an advantage or a disadvantage for them in the negotiations to take on the responsibilities of the euro area in the future?
in writing. at the beginning of the year, we were pleased to note that more than €3 billion had been earmarked for energy development under the eu's economic stimulus package presented at the time. the european commission has rightly recognised the need to support both the creation of alternative transport routes and the interconnection of energy networks. but our joy was mixed with bitterness. indeed, when looking at the actual amounts of aid, it is clear that the aid package neglects the central and eastern european region, which is the most vulnerable in terms of energy supply. the belgian-french gas interconnector receives more aid than the central-eastern european interconnector. while the belgian-french link will be the seventh, in addition to the existing six, this type of infrastructure is very often lacking in the new member states. in addition to the above, we are also dissatisfied that energy efficiency improvements have been completely excluded from the aid package. this is the area where the main objective of the package, job creation, could have been most easily achieved. because of these shortcomings, we believe two things are key. first, future aid schemes should focus on regions where energy investments have the greatest added value. on the other hand, energy efficiency, which is often mentioned in eu circles, should not be overlooked in future budgetary decisions. especially when we know that more efficient use of energy can bring spectacular results in the short term.
in writing. over the past year, the fight against the crisis in the european union has been primarily at member state level, with member state resources. the eu countries have been thinking primarily at national rather than community level when it comes to boosting the economy, helping businesses and preserving jobs. in some cases, the minimum level of coordination, coordination and cooperation was lacking. the old member states with greater fiscal space and stronger economies have put together packages that focus primarily on the internal market, often using protectionist, competition-distorting instruments. a striking example of this was the aid offered by french president nicolas sarkozy to the peugeot group, which was conditional on the preservation of jobs in france while the company had to make cuts in its more efficient slovenian plant. similar discrimination is found in relation to the financial sector in the central european and baltic regions, as western parent companies still deduct profits from their subsidiaries operating in the region. the credit shortage is particularly acute in the sme sector, which provides the majority of jobs and is losing a large proportion of its workforce as export markets and development opportunities are reduced. the economic crisis is thus inevitably transformed into an employment and social crisis. i therefore call on the eu15 governments once again to do everything possible to prevent protectionist measures and to act against domestic banks' behaviour that violates internal market principles.
i ask mr. kamiński if he considers what happened in gaza by israeli soldiers to be a struggle for human civilization. you are the one who is unilaterally speaking, because whoever wants peace here should first of all represent, in accordance with un resolutions, that the palestinians have the right to establish an independent state. you are the one who is unbalanced in demanding that sweden take the position you represent.
mr. president, i have to go. ladies and gentlemen, in the last two and a half hours of debate, quite a lot has been said about copenhagen, about the copenhagen negotiations. i have to say that the swedish presidency has not been entirely successful in this respect, since there is no common position of the european union in copenhagen. this is not necessarily the fault of the swedish presidency, but rather the fault of the european commission. what is it, and why is there no common ground? there are at least two issues on which there is no agreement. one of these questions is whether carbon dioxide allowances can be carried over beyond 2012 and sold then. the european commission attacks this position in an incomprehensible, short-sighted, and narrow-minded way. hungary, poland, romania and the other former socialist countries have kept their kyoto commitments. not only did he follow it, he exceeded it. we have the right to sell the surplus quota. they want to take that away from us, that is, they want to punish behaviour in accordance with the contract, as hungary has done. others have not kept their commitments and have even increased their emissions, but no one wants to punish them. how can we expect, if there is a continuation of kyoto in copenhagen, that a new agreement will be respected by the signatories? i call on the european commission, and i would call on it if it were here, and i would ask, i would strongly urge president barroso, to change its narrow-minded approach and to take a position that is in line with the kyoto treaty currently in force. and i want to remind you, remember that without the new member states, the eu 15 would not have been able to meet their 8% emission reduction commitment. and if that were the case, the european union would have a much worse, much weaker negotiating position in copenhagen.
mr. president, i have to go. we would like to look back at the achievements of the swedish presidency in the perspective of 10 or 20 years. the main event to be mentioned is the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this treaty creates the legal framework for a superstate, controlling the lives of 500 million people from a central hub and subjugating nation states. the road leading here was undemocratic. three referendums rejected this concept, while under the swedish presidency, the second irish referendum and the signing of václav klaus gave the opportunity to do so. the majority of the population of europe rejects this and wants to preserve the existence of the nation-state. so i'm confident that history will mark this period as a failed attempt to create an empire.
the swedish presidency has done an excellent job and i would like to congratulate the prime minister. by finally completing the ratification of the lisbon treaty, he solved the unfortunate and shameful mini-crisis of czech president klaus. the political error made in the enlargement process was that the union did not express the moral unsustainability of the 13 discriminatory beneš decrees earlier. the second major achievement is that the eu has now agreed on a common position on climate negotiations. the us, china have not yet understood this, but the eu clearly sees that whoever leads the green economy now, will have the future. remember that the union was only able to meet its targets because the new member states made significant reductions in emissions. finally, the third major achievement is that accession negotiations have started with serbia and serbia, macedonia and montenegro have been granted visa-free travel. i thank the swedish presidency for providing an excellent opportunity for the spanish-belgian-hungarian tripartite presidency.
in writing. – the green light has been given to the lisbon treaty, which has created all necessary circumstances for institutional reforms. the swedish presidency’s role was to pave the way for the implementation of the lisbon treaty’s provisions. it coped with this challenge. the next presidency’s task is to ensure that the new structures function effectively. in this context, every effort should be made to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. i find it important to emphasise that with the treaty, the charter of fundamental rights will be binding, so human rights (including gender equality) and anti-discrimination issues will have a better chance to be upheld via the law. another success was the drawing-up and approval of the stockholm programme, targeting core issues, which can be regarded as a pragmatic action plan for a more secure and more open europe, based on common values, principles and actions. i would like to underline that although gender equality was not a priority, the swedish presidency also played a role in increasing the number of women commissioners and in the appointment of a female high representative.
in writing. i would like to welcome the constructive participation of belarus in the eastern partnership process and the launch of the eu-belarus human rights dialogue. over the past year, positive developments have started in the country with the release of political prisoners, but we see that this process has since stalled: there are difficulties with the registration of political parties, the licensing of independent media and ngos. the eu was therefore forced to extend the travel restrictions with a suspension. i sincerely hope that belarus will continue the positive changes that it started last year, thus giving the eu the opportunity to respond positively. in the meantime, i think it is important to look at whether we can make progress on visa facilitation, because people-to-people contacts can be a great contribution to political openness, to democratization.
the following is a joint statement by the council and the commission: violence in the democratic republic of congo.
on behalf of my colleagues, we also want to thank you for your efficient and very enjoyable work.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will be held on thursday 17 december 2009.
thank you very much for the minister's reply. there are some very encouraging steps that have been taken, but i would like to highlight three things. there are 50 million people with disabilities in the european union. this is not just a question for them, because the european union is a society that is aging severely. this problem is not just for disabled people, but for the future of all elderly people, all those who are in wheelchairs, who need, say, a lift, so overall, this is going to be a societal issue very soon, and that's why we have to address this very strongly, because this is the future. the deadline for access to services was pushed back by 10 years. it's important that this stays, precisely because it's in all of our interests.
the following is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the implementation of directive 2005/36/ec on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, put to the commission by mr malcolm harbour, mr andreas schwab, mrs evelyne gebhardt, mr cristian silviu buşoi, ms heide rühle, mr adam bielan and mr kyriacos triantaphyllides on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-0108/2009/modified.2 - b7-0217/2009).
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on cohesion policy after 2013 (o-0121/2009/modi.1 - b7-0229/2009) by danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on regional development.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! i want to talk briefly about three issues: equality and equity, secrecy, and last but not least, the importance of rural development. twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall, twenty years after the wall of silence was broken by our colleague lászló tőke, in transylvania, at the beginning of the romanian revolution, it is often said that in the 21st century there are no longer old and new eu member states, but a single european union. i agree with this, but i think it is important that this sacredness is reflected not only in symbolic decisions - which go beyond themselves, of course - but also in the everyday life of one of the most important common policies of the european union, cohesion policy. if the eu member states are equal and have equal rights, it is inconceivable that the cohesion policy could be transformed in such a way that the eu member states that joined in 2004 and 2007 would lose out on the new cohesion policy. such a transformation is unthinkable. second, the secrecy. it is impossible for the european commission to say anything about the future of cohesion policy, or to say nothing at all. as a member of the european parliament and as a member of a european parliament committee, i expect the european commission to take a clear and unequivocal position on these issues. last but not least, rural development. i am convinced that rural development must remain a key aspect of cohesion policy. rural development policy needs to be adequately funded and, in line with the professional view of the european council of local and regional authorities, i believe it is important to consider integrating rural development policy into cohesion policy after 2013.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen of the house. the debate on the future of cohesion policy is of paramount importance. as a horizontal policy, which redistributes more than one third of the eu budget, the success of the cohesion objectives will have a decisive impact on the future of our continent. since its inception, cohesion policy has achieved spectacular successes in europe-15, but stronger intervention is needed in the areas of extreme poverty in the newly joined member states. the situation is further complicated by new and powerful challenges such as climate change, demographic decline or the global economic recession. in the future, therefore, a much more effective and flexible framework will be needed to address territorial disparities in social and economic indicators. strong emphasis should be placed on the development of the most disadvantaged areas, those micro-regions that are far more disadvantaged than their surroundings and that are out of the regional average. to this end, it is appropriate to consider the allocation of resources at union level specifically aimed at the leveling of lau 1 (former nuts 4) planning statistical units, the use of which may be decided by the respective micro-regions or their associations. coordination with other community policies should also be improved, obstacles between the funds should be removed in order to maximise the allocation of resources and the rules for implementation should be significantly simplified. priority should also be given to investments in education and training and sustainable employment, and to the implementation of complex programmes tailored to the specific needs of micro-regions.
rapporteur. − mr president, we are about to hold probably the shortest vote on the budget under the nice treaty, and it is sure that this will be the last vote under the nice treaty. how is it possible that the voting list is so short? it is due to the excellent cooperation of the groups. as a rapporteur, i should like to thank all the groups who participated in the preparation of this vote. in addition to that, i should like to thank the secretariat for its work. without them it would also have been impossible to have been here with just these two pages. thank you very much to all of you. (applause)and i think that this shortness is justified, for, in a time of crisis, we should work to manage the crisis and not spend time on lengthy votes.
rapporteur. − mr president, it is proposed that amendments 3 and 7, which are identical in the text, be voted in three parts, and that an oral amendment be made to the second part. why? because the original text mentioned the opinion of the commission but, in the mean time, the council has decided on this issue. therefore i will read out the new proposal: ‘notes the european council conclusions that the eu and its member states are ready to contribute with fast-start funding of eur 2.4 billion annually for the years 2010 to 2012; stresses, however, the need for information on participation and contribution from the eu budget during 2011 and 2012’. that is the oral amendment, and my proposal is to vote in favour of all three parts.
