mr president, this afternoon we have listened to yourself and others make statements on the terrible situation in gaza and on the need for an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of israeli armed forces from gaza. i must say that, in this context, i agree with mr cohn-bendit that parliament should take a position – we cannot sit on the fence. however, in a way it is a bit mundane to speak about bread-and-butter issues, having listened to all that has been said, but of course bread-and-butter issues concern all our citizens. last weekend in ireland the announcement by dell, that it was relocating 2 000 jobs, came as a body-blow to the community in the mid-west and west of ireland. at a time when we are experiencing a global financial downturn, this is especially difficult for workers directly employed by dell and for its suppliers etc. in this context, the european globalisation fund could prove to be especially important to help retrain and reskill workers and to assist in the promotion of entrepreneurship for self-employment. it is crucial that the irish government makes an immediate application to the globalisation fund, so that workers can have some faith in the future and see that the eu is working to assist all workers and, in this case, those in the west and mid-west of ireland.
mr president, i rise on the issue of palestine. i note that in your earlier remarks you have been somewhat coy in your positioning on israel: 900 palestinians dead, a third of whom are children, and yet we cannot find it in ourselves in this chamber to utterly condemn israeli brutality. this onslaught is not alone disproportionate; it is entirely unjustified. it is not driven by israeli security needs; in fact, it is a cynical and clinical attack not on hamas, but on the palestinian population. i think that member states now have a moral obligation to flex the full extent of their diplomatic and political muscle with israel to end this violence. tiptoeing around the israeli administration will not work; it has never worked. israel must now understand that there are indeed consequences for its actions. therefore i call on all meps to demand the immediate suspension of the euro-med agreement and indeed all preferential trade arrangements between the eu and israel. equally, we must resist any attempt to upgrade relations between the eu and the state of israel which lays siege on gaza and brutalises the palestinian people. the rhetoric of human rights, which so often echoed this chamber, must now be honoured in word and deed. that is the only prospect for a successful peace process in the middle east.
mr president, my constituency last week was devastated by the announcement, as mrs harkin has said, of the loss of almost 2 000 jobs in the dell factory. this also means the loss of probably 2 000 more jobs that depend on dell production in ireland. dell is moving production to łódź in poland with the help of almost eur 52 million in state aid. can the commission assure me that the state aid, which poland is using, is within the competition rules of the eu, and can it assure me that sufficient aid from the european globalisation fund will be available to prepare the dismissed workforce for new employment?
mr president, may i take this opportunity to back the case for european union funding to support the european special olympics games, which are being held in warsaw in 2010, and the special olympics world games, which are being held in athens in 2011. the commission allocated eur 5 million in support of the special olympics world games when they were held in ireland in 2003, which was such a wonderful occasion and a pleasure for so many of us who were present. we in the european union must be to the forefront in supporting volunteerism in sport. let me add that there is a written declaration on this issue that meps can sign this week outside the chamber, and i would urge all colleagues to sign this declaration in support of eu funding for these very important special olympics games.
madam president, i wish to raise the issue of zimbabwe. it seems to me that if zimbabwe is not on our television screens, then we do not really concern ourselves with some of the issues that arise there. recently we had the case of jestina mukoko, executive director of the zimbabwe peace project and a board member of the zimbabwe human rights ngo forum, who was abducted and held incommunicado for 21 days before reappearing at harare magistrates court bearing signs, it might be said, of torture and ill treatment – all for the crime of being a human rights campaigner. ms mukoko is currently being held in solitary confinement at the maximum security prison, and her future, like that of so many campaigners, aid workers and ordinary citizens before her, remains in jeopardy at the hands of the mugabe regime. many words of concern and condemnation have been spoken in this chamber and in other, national parliaments, yet the nightmare for ordinary zimbabweans continues unabated. i believe that it is time we reasserted our interest in this and demand from the council and commission that action be taken once and for all to bring to an end the criminal activity against people who are campaigning for human rights in zimbabwe.
madam president, i welcome the statement by the president this evening on gaza and, indeed, the decision of parliament to have a resolution on the issue to urge an immediate, unilateral ceasefire by all sides in the gaza conflict. with over 900 now dead, the futility of politics-by-war is painfully evident. you must insist that israel stop the killing. gaza is the largest prison in the world, with 1.5 million prisoners; it is now also a slaughterhouse, unfortunately, with men, women an children dying simply because they are palestinian. what possible crimes could the palestinian children, who are dying in this conflict, be guilty of? what possible excuses have we europeans to continue to do business with israel while it callously continues to slaughter innocent people? the european council must stop making excuses, stop the bickering and unite in concerted action which will bring this slaughter to an end. there can be no question of upgrading europe’s relations with israel so long as it fails to engage in constructive dialogue with all the representatives of the palestinian people.
madam president, i would like to raise my concerns about the ever-increasing lack of scientific rigour in the draft proposals presented to this parliament by the commission and, indeed, in some of the reports and amendments for which we as parliamentarians are responsible. good science gives way more and more to populist and emotive responses, often dressed up as the precautionary principle. take the issue of the plant protection products. we have abandoned the scientific principle of risk assessment. there is no detailed eu impact assessment and there is a lack of scientific definition of endocrine disrupters and an inconsistency of treatment between it and the reach directive. we are bringing eu legislation into international disrepute and undermining its credibility by this growing lack of scientific rigour and lack of good science.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, we are speaking in this chamber on the eve of a vote which is a critical one for agriculture, health and environment. let us be very clear: any one of us legislators who has identified and raised problem issues during this legislation process has done so out of concern for agriculture and future food supply. of course i am concerned about any overuse of pesticides and about their effects. there is no doubt that rates of cancer have increased. we have increased residues in our air, water and food, which affect our health and environment. also note, it is our farmers who are in most direct contact with pesticides. the intention of this legislation, which i applaud, is to protect our citizens’ health and environment and agriculture. as legislators, however, we must always seek out balance and base legislation on sound science. we cannot and should not legislate in the abstract. by moving away from the commission’s original scientific, risk-based approach to a hazard-based one, we fell at the first hurdle. without a relevant impact assessment, which many of us requested repeatedly, nobody can state exactly how many substances will be banned. ireland has a unique temperate but wet climate. this makes our potatoes and winter cereal crops susceptible to weeds and disease such as blight. the removal of an estimated 22 substances, including mancozeb and opus, will affect product availability. so, following the introduction of this legislation in 18 months’ time, what is the view? pesticides which are already on the market under current legislation would remain available until their existing authorisation expires. if in ireland we can prove that a particular substance which should be withdrawn is necessary to combat a serious danger to plant health and that there is no safer substitute, this substance may be approved for up to five years repeatedly, despite the ban. in theory this may work. in practice we need to make this work. in the present climate we cannot afford to decrease eu food production and be less competitive in our market-leading potential. we need to push and urge industry to invest in alternative, biologically sound products which are equally if not more effective. we have a precedent. we have all seen the case of the use of a non-chemical, natural, cheap and effective remedy spray used to protect white grapes worldwide. i welcome parliament’s amendment which goes some way to protect bees, which are crucial for farmers and food supplies through pollination. finally, i would ask colleagues to support uen amendment 182 and to reject the package amendment 169. the commission, the experts, will come up with the proper scientific basis for endocrine disruptors in four years. we cannot prejudice this scientific assessment with a non-scientific-based definition.
madam president, there are plenty of examples of sound eu environmental polices which improve the lives of citizens across the union and there are, of course, also many examples where unnecessarily bureaucratic measures come from the eu and restrict the potential to sustain our rural economy and way of life. unfortunately, i believe this pesticide package may fall into the latter category. in raising my concerns on these measures, i want to make it clear that i do not have industry in mind but rather the farming community – farmers who, i will remind the previous speakers, have as much concern with human health as any other citizen and who bear no malicious intent in that regard. this package lacks the sufficient scientific rigour which is needed both to defend our health and our economy. the lack of a thorough impact assessment, taking into account effects on our environment, health, economy and the sustainability of our rural communities, is testament to this failure to apply sufficient rigour. it is my fear that the package will have the opposite effect of the progressive intentions behind it. the well-intentioned attempt to create a more sustainable countryside may ultimately undermine the countryside by imposing overly stringent rules on an already struggling farming population. i have listened intently to the arguments made unanimously by farmers in ireland, and i believe that they are right to be concerned with this package and that the long-term interests of our citizens and of the rural communities are not protected in these measures. the trialogue position does represent an improvement on the proposal but more needs to be done on the regulation by way of amendment to meet these real concerns.
madam president, what we have in common here is a desire to protect health, but we should remember that it is the farmers who produce the good, fresh, nourishing food that is the basis of our health. i come from a very wet country. my farmers struggle continually with fungal infestation. fungi – unlike insects that come and go – come and stay. to ban, or impose diluted, fungicides could make potato and grain farming impossible in ireland, but this proposed legislation is already having another effect. already in our media there are articles promoting gm potato-growing as an answer to the eu restrictions on pesticides. which will be more damaging to bees and the environment: the continued responsible use of pesticides as practised by irish farmers, or gm? we are told pesticides might disrupt dna. gm is based on disrupting dna. it is more necessary than ever that we start with a full impact assessment.
madam president, i would like to thank those who worked on these two important reports. one would imagine from the contributions of some here this evening that the eu had absolutely no control currently on the marketing and use of these chemicals – we do! we have strict rules at the moment and, indeed, rules on residues and food. so i bow to neither side nor extreme of this debate this evening, particularly those who fail to see the need for plant protection products in food production and those who say that these two pieces of legislation are a disaster for farming and the food production in europe. i am a bit concerned about the comments of commissioner dimas when he says that people are worried about pesticides. yes, that may be the case, but the question is: how justified are these worries? what have you done as the commission to point out to consumers that the vast bulk of our food is produced using products to give us quality, safe food? yes, some ingredients used in chemicals are very hazardous, but the risks of using them depend on how they are used and depend on compliance with maximum residue levels (mrls) in our food. as far as i am concerned, those who use them are well-trained, in my experience, and we need perhaps to step up the training in other member states. twenty-two substances are on the way out; in ireland and the uk there are huge concerns about cereal production and potatoes. the questions are: will the agrochemical industry respond and produce new products? the commission does not have the answer to that question. will the derogations work? what happens if there are no alternatives? i think that that needs to be addressed, because we in ireland want to continue producing cereals and potatoes. the question of imported food is a very real one, and i beg for five seconds extra on it. if the commission would work with eu food producers on this, we could make progress. it is just not tenable that the commission can sit here and say that we will ban the use of substances in europe but that those outside the european union can continue to send us food using those substances. it is not a competitive position, it is not tenable, and i ask you to address it here this evening.
madam president, mr struan stevenson has offered me his two minutes as he is unable to be here. may i take it is as ppe-de time?
madam president, exaggerated claims have made it difficult to ascertain fact from fiction at different stages of this difficult debate. yes, there is a need to control the use of agrochemicals – we all accept that – and, if not used sustainably, they can be hazardous to the user and the environment. but, if used sustainably, and if the maximum residue levels and withdrawal period are respected, they are of minimum risk, and of none at all to the consumer. the proposal to base decisions for approval of an active substance on the intrinsic properties of the substance – the hazard-based approach – rather than basing it on the scientific principle of risk assessment is a major concern. alcohol, pure alcohol, is a hazard. if you drink pure alcohol, we know what happens. but when sufficiently diluted at 4% or 12% or whatever – when used sustainably – there is minimum risk. may i say that these are two different issues. the eu impact assessment has been referred to. the scientific definition, and lack thereof, of endocrine disruptors has already been referred to. however, the positive note is that the derogation period will allow industry to invest in much-needed r&d and to develop new products and viable alternatives. i would invite the agrochemical industry and their cerp community to look into and invest in this area. the anomaly of allowing imported food products using plant protection products generally, while we will not allow our farmers to use them, continues to be one of the mysteries and one of the major problems we have with legislation of this sort. however, on balance i think a lot of improvement is being made from the original proposal and i am inclined to support it.
madam president, i wish to highlight the importance of explaining to affected stakeholders early on in the legislative process the reasons why it is necessary to regulate. as a representative of a predominantly rural constituency, i have received a considerable number of representations from highly concerned constituents in the farming community on this particular dossier. there is a general perception amongst this community that regulations are being arbitrarily handed down from brussels without any input from the bottom up. therefore, i firmly believe that member state governments need to do a lot more explaining of these matters with affected stakeholders, rather than taking the easy route of foisting the responsibility on the so-called brussels bureaucrats. after all, it is the member states that have to implement these measures in the final instance, and it is the member states that have the resources in terms of local representatives to explain these matters to farmers. it is important that those who are producing food within the eu are not over-regulated compared to those who bring their produce onto the market from outside the eu. any proposal must have balance for consumers, farmers and the environment, but we must also make sure that the correct information is made available to all of the stakeholders.
madam president, this is on a point of order, because i think people are talking and not listening. i heard what the commissioner said on the food import situation. i think you are missing the point and i think, with respect, our rapporteur is also missing the point. farmers in europe will be banned from using particular substances. their cousins outside the european union can use these products. we will not find residues in the food that comes in. we are talking about a competitive disadvantage for eu producers. perhaps at another point, we could address the real world rather than this vague ether we are currently in. sorry for the anger.
rapporteur. − mr president, when i initiated this report the issue of global food security was very high on the political agenda and, to some extent, it has slipped from the highlights. but it is certainly an issue that is of concern because there are still upwards of one billion people globally who suffer hunger or malnutrition. thirty thousand children die of hunger and poverty-related illnesses a day. these are horrific statistics and it makes the issue of how we produce sufficient food and give people access to that food a key issue. i would like to thank the commission for working with me in drafting this report and also the very many committees in the house, in particular the committee on development, which were obviously involved in its production. in four minutes it is impossible to do justice to what is in the report, but let me just highlight some of the issues which i believe are of importance. firstly, the fact that i have put the common agricultural policy and global food security in the one heading suggests that the old practice of bashing the common agricultural policy and blaming it for all the ills of the developing world has moved on, and that we are now aware that the common agricultural policy has provided food security for european citizens, and that as a model it can provide lessons for what we need to do in the developing world in terms of food production. it is very clear that we have allowed agriculture development to slip down the political and development agenda over the last decade or so. there was a time when much of our development aid money went to stimulating agriculture and to projects on food production. that is not the case today, although i think, since the food price hike, we are beginning to refocus on agriculture, both in the eu and globally. that means allowing those countries which have the resources to grow food to do that, to help them and their small-scale farmers produce food locally to meet their needs. it involves not just the provision of the basis ingredients of food production, such as seeds and fertilisers, but also the know-how, the advisory services, the assistance to farming families in the developing world to allow them to produce to meet their own needs. it can be done. we have examples of malawi and other countries that have managed to come from situations of extreme famine to producing food. it takes public policy initiatives to do it. it also requires that the european union, given its huge involvement in the developing world, urges countries to look at their agriculture and begin stimulating food production in their own countries. the issue of supply and demand is a very delicate one because there is a growing world population – it will increase by 40% by 2050 – so we are going to have to look at these issues. the problem of competition – as we have witnessed – between food production, feed production and fuel, is obviously a key concern. i suppose, driving all of this, we need to look at the issue of research and development. i believe that we have not done enough in terms of research and development. we, in europe, had looked towards producing less food and therefore perhaps had not looked at the need to look at the efficiencies of agricultural production and the need to produce more into the future. one of the key messages that i really want to get across in the short time i have is to say that farmers worldwide will produce food if they can make an income from doing it, so the pressure on policymakers is to get that right, to provide the policies that will give farmers stable incomes. how do we do that? by providing stable prices and also looking at the costs of food production. unless farmers get that income stimulus, they will pull back. i give a warning. well over a year ago we were talking about high commodity prices. today there are surpluses of grain, for example, in store and no market for them. those farmers will not produce as much in the next season, and that could exacerbate the longer-term problem of global food security. there is a lot in this report. i hope colleagues can support it and again i thank the many people who took a great interest in it.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes parliament’s report on this important directive, and we thank mrs madurell for her hard work on this. directive 2002/73/ec is an important tool for fighting gender discrimination in access to employment, vocational training, promotion and working conditions. it has significantly improved community law in this field, with clearer definitions of types of discrimination and a number of innovative legal solutions. they include provisions for the protection of pregnant women and women on maternity leave, the involvement of social partners and ngos in ensuring gender equality in the workplace, and the establishment of equality bodies. this report is of special importance given the many inequalities still affecting men and women in the area of employment. it draws the attention of the member states, the commission, the social partners and civil society to the directive’s key provisions and stresses the need for full implementation. it can therefore contribute to greater compliance with the directive and to greater awareness of the community legislation on equal treatment of men and women. as the guardian of the treaties, the commission continues to monitor closely implementation of the directive in the member states. it is keeping up the dialogue with the member states in connection with infringement procedures, with a view to ensuring the directive is properly implemented. in fulfilment of its reporting obligation under the directive, the commission will adopt a report in the first half of this year on the directive’s application in all member states and will communicate this to parliament and the council.
in writing. – the irish equality authority is considered to be a model of good practice. yet, the irish government has recently cut its budget by some 43% and fast-tracked the decentralisation of the authority, at a time when the government’s overall programme of decentralisation of public bodies is being halted. indeed, mr niall crowley, chief executive officer of ireland's equality authority, has resigned as ceo stating 'the equality authority has been rendered unviable by the decision [...] to cut its funding by 43% and to continue the decentralisation of its staff' and that '[t]he work of the equality authority has been fatally compromised'. moreover, a further six members of the equality authority's board have now also resigned. this report urges member states to develop capacities and ensure adequate resources for the bodies promoting equal treatment and equal gender opportunities provided for in directive 2002/73/ec. it also restates the directive's requirement of ensuring the independence of those bodies. the irish government is clearly in breach of the directive because it evidently has no intention to either adequately resource or ensure the independence of an authority whose funding it has almost halved forcing the resignation of half its board.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr klinz, the rapporteur, on his excellent report. he has worked extremely hard to get an agreed compromise, and i congratulate him on that. the revised ucits directive will, when it enters into effect, serve to reduce much burdensome red tape and unnecessary costs. during compromise negotiations, certain specific concerns of some member states were recognised, allowing for the production of a strong and widely supported proposal. i believe it not only protects consumers but is also good for investors. as some speakers have already said, an open market is a positive thing and can be a very good thing for all of us if it is well regulated. ucits revision is yet another recognition that the financial markets of today are so integrated that we need common rules and standards for the effective regulation and operation of the global financial services industry. that is recognised not only in europe but also globally, as we go through unprecedented financial times. it is very important that we work together at a global level to try and resolve the problems. let me just say that today is a great occasion: we celebrate the 10th anniversary of the euro currency, which itself serves as an illustration of the importance of economic cooperation. it is fortunate that my own country, ireland, is a member of the euro zone as the current currency has been a source of stability for ireland and other countries at a time of unprecedented turbulence and during the current global recession. if ireland were not in the euro zone, we would probably be in the unfortunate position of iceland – but that is not the case. i would like to remind some of the irish members in this house – sinn féin in particular – that if they had had their way, we would not be in the euro. they described it at the time as a backward step. ireland would not be in the monetary union and ireland’s economic position would be as bad as iceland’s. i would like to remind those who opposed the european project in ireland that many countries around the world are now using ireland’s rejection of the lisbon treaty and exploiting the confusion over its possible or perceived repercussions to win over new contracts at the expense of ireland. economically, ireland must stay at the centre of decision-making in europe, where we have traditionally been and where our enterprise needs and wants ireland to be.
madam president, likewise, if i could have the same forbearance. my request is on its way to you as well.
madam president, first, i just wish to record the fact that i pressed the wrong button on the mcguinness report. in fact, i completely support the mcguinness report on food security – but i will check that with the services later. i particularly agree with the point that we need to adapt the cap to meet food security concerns and the fact that farmers need a stable policy environment in order to plan for the future. we cannot have certainty, but we certainly need to have some stability. in addition, i support the fact that the market alone cannot provide income security for producers and also the call for a detailed impact assessment, in particular, let us say, on the implications for food security. if we look at particular eu proposals, for example on plant protection, again we need a proper detailed impact assessment on that, and we need to take food security into consideration when we conduct that assessment.
madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for their endorsement of this report and marian harkin for her words of support. it presents a clear statement of the view of this house on agriculture policy, not just at the european level, but also at a global level. in particular – and this is important – it calls for a refocus on agriculture policy in the developing world, providing assistance to those who can produce food to do so locally. i believe the eur 1 billion that the european union will provide for this purpose is a step in the right direction. obviously, i supported my own report. i believe it is a blueprint for the future in terms of how this house views agriculture. while the food security debate has gone off the political agenda, the problem of 30 000 children dying of hunger and starvation every day remains with us.
madam president, one of the biggest concerns and one of the keys in relation to global food security is to ensure sufficient, sustainable production and, indeed, food security in the so-called developed world, such as here in the eu, so that we can export our surplus production and are not competing ourselves on world markets for food, thereby increasing the prices for those in regions who do not have the climate, the soil, the know-how and the investment to produce their own food. we have to be very careful with our policies to ensure that we are responding not only environmentally but also globally to the necessity for sustainable food production.
madam president, first of all i would like to say that this is an excellent report. we are always speaking about connecting the eu to its citizens and the fact that the eu project cannot proceed without the involvement of eu citizens. there are two types of democracy: representative, which we have in this house, and participative, which is what this report is all about. however, it is important to understand that civil dialogue is two-sided. it is reciprocal. therefore, the concerns and ideas put forward by citizens must be taken into consideration by the eu institutions. i think we have an excellent example of that in the one million signatures for disability and the document that we are debating in this parliament at the moment. i disagree with the last speaker because i believe, if we do pass the lisbon treaty, that it gives us the opportunity to connect citizens to the eu in a much more meaningful way. our role in this house is to ensure, if we pass the lisbon treaty, that it works effectively.
madam president, i voted in favour of this compromise because it makes sense that we have sustainable use of pesticides. i think the real problem is that there are such different rules across member states: some countries apply training and education of operators in a very strict way and, therefore, have good sustainable use of pesticides, but not all countries do so. i think this piece of legislation will make it appropriate that we have higher standards across the european union. that is good both for those who operate sprays and for those who come into contact with them. i think we are talking about a very sensible package here, so i was very happy to support it, and i congratulate the rapporteur.
madam president, i also supported this vote. there is no question that we need a regulatory system for pesticides. this is not in dispute. the klaß report extends the range of controls and limits the use of ppps to essential use. interestingly, while there was a very vexed debate on hazard-versus-risk on the breyer report, i have always felt that this issue is more suitable to the actual use as distinct from placing on the market – in other words, this report. a wide range of common products can be hazardous if the handling and usage instructions are ignored. being on the market in itself is not a risk to the consumer, the environment or the user of such products. pesticides are only hazardous if the handler does not know what he or she is doing, if the application equipment is faulty, if the aquatic environment is ignored or if they are improperly stored and not part of an integrated pest-management plan. the concept of quantitative use reduction needs careful management, as less frequent spraying with higher concentration of pesticide could result. at the end of the day, these substances must be used to the least extent possible, as every farmer knows.
madam president, i too found this a particularly difficult decision. i felt that the report was, in general, very well-balanced and constructive, and it was certainly designed to ensure a high level of protection for human health, animal health and the environment. however, i have concerns about the situation where we are making decisions for approval of a particular substance based on whether that substance is a hazard or not, and we are not taking possible exposure into account. i think we need impact assessments conducted on a scientific basis. one of my concerns is that, when i talk to citizens about the eu, one of the issues they constantly raise with me is that, at times, the eu’s legislation is not always proportionate. while i believe there is flexibility in this report, i think we needed a little more, but crucially we needed further scientific evidence to support the case. yes, there is the precautionary principle, and we need to be mindful of this, but decisions also need to be evidence-based, and i would have liked a little more evidence in this matter.
madam president, like other colleagues, i should like to say that this was a very difficult dossier. while diana wallis was concerned about peas, you can imagine that, in ireland, potatoes were certainly on our menu and on the agenda. overall, however, i believe that what we voted on is a much better proposal and package than the original one on the table – and i compliment those who worked on it. let me say a few things about this – and i will end up with the key point. i think we are now in a position where farmers need to lobby the agrochemical industry to produce safer alternatives so that they can continue to produce food, and i think as much energy should go into that lobby as has gone heretofore. when it comes to food imports, the commission need to address the genuine concerns of eu farmers and producers that they will be banned from using certain substances but third countries continue to use them. we need an explanation of that in order to bring farmers with us.
madam president, exaggerated claims have been made and fears expressed by all sides on this report. it is has been difficult to distinguish fact from fiction and to come to a decision on how to vote. while i recognise the concerns of the soft fruit industry, the potato industry and the cereal farmers in ireland who have spoken to me about this, i supported the compromise. i feel the improvements made were worth our support, even though i still have some concerns. i supported the vote as, in my opinion, the worst of all outcomes would be to deliver this report to conciliation. the five-year derogation, renewable if necessary for essential plant protection projects, is an important safety net and also encourages the agrochemical industry to research and produce alternatives.
madam president, now that this vote is over and the arguments have been made, i would like to come back to something that ran through the debate here and in the committee. this was the noticeable mistrust of farmers and an assumption by many that farmers are somehow enemies of health and the environment. in my experience this is the opposite of the truth. farmers in ireland are, and have been, stewards who for thousands of years have protected and preserved the environment, keeping it alive, clean and productive. similarly, farmers have also been the basis of our health. they produce the good food that is the basis of our good health. i would urge you to renew our faith in our farmers, who are doing their best to feed us in very difficult situations, circumstances of weather, pest and, of course, eu policy.
in writing. − the report by mr belder considers the current situation of the european union's trade and economic relations with this increasingly stable region, where many countries hold candidateship for eu membership. the role of the eu as a major partner for the area in maintaining trade and economic relations while pushing for a stable, lasting peace in the area is a very important one. the eu's strength as an economic partner, but also as a model for a strong civil society, government and dynamic institutions, should be used to push for the development of the region. a threefold and differentiated approach, taking into account the relative differences between countries in the region as well as association agreements and further support, provides a clear way to address issues of underdevelopment and shore up intensive regional and international economic cooperation. as a means of cementing a lasting peace and promoting the ideals to which we are all committed, i support mr belder's report.
in writing. − securing sustainable food supply is one of the greatest challenges that faces us. this challenge will continue to grow as the world's population expands. the current population growth rate is over 70 million per year. this means providing food for 70 million more people every year. how will we manage this when already over 850 million people in the world are undernourished? while securing sustainable food supply is one of our greatest challenges, the eu is one of the greatest success stories of recent times, having brought peace, stability and prosperity to the region. the eu is the largest giver of oda and is a model for international cooperation, and can put this experience to good use globally. the eu cannot afford to follow policy lines that are narrow in scope. just as international fortunes are intertwined, there is more and more overlap between policy areas. this report is an acknowledgment of this and a recognition that the eu's high standards and wealth of agricultural experience can be of a wider value in addressing global food security, including by providing funding for fertilisers and high-yield seeds, as well as training and practical support for farmers and food producers.
in writing. − this report by genowefa grabowska provides for increased mechanisms of participation and for vehicles for civil dialogue within the european union. it addresses the gap between members of the union and the relationship they have with the institutions that serve them. it recognises the need to increase civil dialogue to maintain true engagement with the aims of the european project. the recent rejection of the lisbon treaty in ireland was in part due to differences between the perception of the union and the reality of the union. addressing the generalised lack of information is key to achieving a genuine democratic partnership. central to this proposal is the insistence that dialogue is reciprocal, that the opinions expressed need to be heeded and respected. for this report, ms grabowska highlights both transparency and representativeness as essential components of active civil dialogue and a genuine participatory democracy. a more open and accessible council, increased and more integrated inter-institutional cooperation, better use of new media as a means to connect with citizens and providing assistance to civil society institutions will help bring europe closer together. for these reasons, i support ms grabowska's report.
in writing. − we support any and all efforts to empower citizens, communities and civil society organisations with regard to political decision-making processes, including the eu. however, we do not believe that the lisbon treaty provides any real advance in this field. furthermore we believe that for the proposed citizens initiative to be meaningful, the commission should be under a legally binding obligation to produce a white paper outlining a response to the proposal, or the treaty basis for not taking action.
in writing. − today we have abstained from the vote on this plant protection legislation. it is a very difficult vote. we have been involved in all parts of the intense negotiations on this controversial package right up to this point. the emphasis of this legislation is clearly on health and the links between chemical substances and cancer. farmers are most affected due to direct contact. while this package seeks to limit the availability of carcinogens, member states may allow substances on the market where there is a serious threat to plant health. the proposal seeks to protect bees and reduce red tape for substance authorisation. with a gradual withdrawal of substances until 2016, we would urge industry to come up with biologically sound and effective products. we cannot vote in favour of this legislation. despite repeated calls for a more recent impact assessment, none was forthcoming from the commission. we cannot legislate in the abstract! products will be banned based on hazard as opposed to scientific risk, which would be based on use and exposure. in addition, the definition of “endocrine disruptor” has not been agreed at scientific level and we have tabled amendments to await the opinion of commission experts to address this.
in writing. − the legislative regime for pan-european investment funds, undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits), has been subject to a considerable review. these are formed of collective investment schemes, which, having obtained an authorisation in a member state, are able to use this ‘passport’ across the union without the need for further examination. in these times of generalised financial insecurity, the regulation of financial dealings must be fairly and consistently applied to bolster confidence in the sector. wolf klinz’s report proposes the introduction of ‘passports’ for management companies (mc) which are engaged by ucits fund promoters. this proposal allows for the cross-border management of funds without the current requisite for fully functioning management companies being set up. it is vital that sufficient fund managers are available to maintain a proper watch on mc passports. mr klinz has presented a compromise document that i can support.
in writing. − we welcome some of the positive elements of this report, and in particular the recognition of the need to spread the tax burden more fairly, the importance of public expenditure and sound economic governance. however i abstained in the vote because of the report’s adherence to the flawed lisbon strategy, emphasis on competitiveness, support for flexicurity and the implicit threat to pension schemes, public health and long-term care under the guise of ‘structural reform’.
mr president, i wish to congratulate my colleague, marco cappato, on his report. it is important that we are debating it here in parliament. when we speak of accountability and transparency, we must start with ourselves and that means all of the eu institutions. i agree with much of the report. i have one or two caveats. for example, we must ensure that, if we provide information on members’ activities, say, that such information is comprehensive. otherwise we will end up knowing the price of everything and the value of nothing. by this i mean that our workload is really quite broad. it is not just attendance at committees or plenary. any such information on members’ activities would need to include all the activities. otherwise some very valuable work that is not concentrated in parliament could be lost because it would be invisible. i would like to say regarding my colleague mr romagnoli’s comments that his good work was not picked up by the media, that it is only news if you do not do your work. finally, i would like to say that the core of the matter is that there should be transparency when we are acting in a legislative capacity. i agree with michael cashman that all citizens should know how their ministers vote in council. this is crucial. otherwise we play into the hands of the ‘blame brussels’ brigade when something goes wrong at home.
mr president, i noted carefully what the rapporteur said. there are two categories involved here: access to information on eu legislative work, and access to documents in the non-legislative field. in relation to the former, i support what is being called active transparency to the point of freedom of information as the norm and, indeed, very reduced use of secret meetings and room documents at council level. i think we should know how our ministers vote so that they can be held to account to stop this ‘blame brussels’ culture that goes on in national parliaments at home. i should also like easy access to meps’ records of attendance and voting during parliamentary work at all levels. we are elected by the citizens to do a job and we are entitled to be held to account by them. on the other hand, to suggest that all political groups or party meetings must be open to public scrutiny is patent nonsense and a recipe for an agenda to be hijacked. i have no fear of transparency. we do an honourable job here as politicians and we must stand up for the dignity of our profession.
commissioner, i very much appreciate your reply. in view of the fact that we have a common monetary policy, but given the ongoing problems, do you see a greater role for the eurogroup, while respecting the taxation policies in individual states? do you think that the implementation or the adoption of the lisbon treaty would in any way affect that area in relation to taxation? i think the important thing is that we need to work together. how do you envisage new ways of trying to generate stimulus in economies of the eu countries?
happy new year to the commissioner, although the news is not good on dairying. could i specifically ask you, commissioner – because you have alluded to some of the factors which have resulted in the price fall – given that we were not clear on why prices rose so dramatically, is there a detailed analysis as to why prices have fallen so dramatically? are you confident that the reforms of the health check are sufficient in view of all this uncertainty? lastly, is a safety net enough if we erode producer confidence and they drop milk production, as is happening now?
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the discussions between parliament and the council on the adoption of the regulation establishing a european food facility have led to the decision not to use the funds available under chapter 2 of the budget to finance this facility, contrary to what the commission had proposed. however, the regulation of the parliament and the council, adopted on 16 december 2008, does provide for a budget of eur 1 billion under chapter 4 of the budget for the period 2008-2010. it will finance measures to support agriculture and food security in developing countries most affected by the food crisis. microcredit is one of these measures, among others, which are aimed at increasing agricultural and rural production. the programming of the actions financed by this facility will be subject to parliament's right of scrutiny, in accordance with the provisions of the comitology regulation. i can tell you that a first package of around eur 300 million, covering 24 to 25 countries, will be presented as early as february, while the general plan for the use of the entire facility will be presented by the commission and adopted in any case before 1 may 2009. the commission supports the development of microcredit and, more generally, of microfinance institutions. in addition to credit, they offer a wide range of financial services: savings, insurance products, money transfers and payment systems. the commission is committed to helping the most disadvantaged and low-income people to access these financial services. the commission considers that a lack of institutional and technical capacity rather than a lack of financial resources remains the main obstacle to the development of financial systems for the most disadvantaged. the commission therefore focuses its efforts mainly on strengthening the institutional capacity of microfinance actors. and, in cases where access to capital is a major constraint for microfinance institutions, for example, where a microfinance institution wishes to develop its services in rural areas, the commission may finance the capital needs of these institutions through specialised financial institutions, such as the eib, using the appropriations to make loans or equity participations. in some cases, when it comes to the creation of new microfinance institutions, i am thinking of start-ups, the commission can also decide on funding through specialised ngos. furthermore, on the basis of these comparative advantages, the european investment bank manages microfinance operations in the general framework of the facilities financed by the budget of the european union, namely femip in the case of the mediterranean region, or by the european development fund, namely the investment facility for the acp countries.
member of the commission. - we are obviously, as i said, preparing the mechanism which will enable the financial means agreed for this purpose to be put into effect immediately. i believe that the nature of the funds or the origin of the funds does not pose a problem in terms of capacity. it is obvious that even in the case of projects at rural level, this will not pose any difficulties. i can therefore assure you that there should be no problem and that in any case the concern you have will be largely met, as you will see in the first package, which will arrive at the end of february and in any case in the general plan which will be there by 1 may at the latest.
member of the commission. - i cannot of course envisage myself as a direct manager of developing countries. developing countries generally have extremely fragile policies in relation to all of this. i think that the commission has a duty to take account of the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i can see the point of it. perhaps i can take this question back and try to integrate it into the thinking that's going on, and then come back to you and see how we can organize it. i suppose you are thinking of incentives that would allow some policies to be geared much more towards small family farms and so on. i think that organic farming in a number of developing countries is certainly a way forward, provided that we are able to create supply chains. but i'm improvising here. if we are able to create a sector in a country which is overcapacitated in agricultural production at a given moment, it can obviously represent an interesting diversification with an interesting added value. i can see the usefulness of your suggestion and i promise to pass it on to my staff to see how we can incorporate it into our thinking.
is the commissioner concerned that the issue of global food security, which is part of this question, has slipped down the political agenda because of the global economic crisis? what action is the commission taking to ensure that it is high on the political agenda, because 30 000 children are still dying of hunger and starvation on a daily basis?
member of the commission. - i'm sometimes surprised by certain questions. just because we don't talk about it every day doesn't mean we don't work on it every day. you ask me a question which suggests that the commission is not careful to continue the work which it has largely begun with the help and support of parliament. you can rest assured; i have to tell you that this is an interesting question in that the fact that prices have fallen since the food crisis a few months ago might suggest to some minds that the problem is solved. prices, although decreasing, will not return to the relatively low level they were before. so you are right to point out and remind us that the food crisis is still and will continue to be a real problem for many years to come and therefore, be assured of my full vigilance on this matter, it will not be forgotten.
member of the commission. − i have two questions today on the budget reform, one more general and one more concentrated on agricultural matters. i am very happy to have at least two questions because we were asking for more interest from parliament. in response to the first question, this is more general and concerns more the delivery and efficiency of european budget delivery. part of the public consultation concentrated specifically on how to make delivery of the european budget more efficient, faster, simpler and more transparent. the public consultation has made a strong call for the improved effectiveness and efficiency of the european budget, in particular through the simplification and proportionality of the administrative budget and control. in this context, a number of issues were identified, some of which are already taking concrete shape in the commission. among those initiatives which are already in place is the european transparency initiative. thanks to this initiative, the commission has already provided a first response to the need for increased openness and accessibility to the budget. some other issues mentioned in the consultation deserve our serious attention. the first is the integration of expenditures currently outside the budget – the so-called budgetisation of the funds. this would obviously increase synergies, legitimacy and administrative simplification, but we have not been very successful over the years. you are aware of this with regard to some funds. the responsibilities of the member states are another important element. it is important to further strengthen the responsibilities of member states, who manage over 80% of the european budget, particularly in areas under shared management. a clearer allocation of responsibilities between member states and the commission is needed. this will also hopefully be partly improved if we have the lisbon treaty in place. the third element is the rigidity of our budget. the current european budget is still rather too rigid, recent examples being the negotiations for the food facility or the european recovery plan, especially in the current environment. then we have problems with the gas supply in europe where we are not able to deliver or have an agreement between the member states to invest in future projects such as interconnections or gas storage. that again shows how much we need to invest in the european budget’s operational capacities to react. the third group of problems which has been mentioned in the consultations concerned minimising the administrative burden. the commission has also already made various commitments. in the action plan towards an integrated internal control framework, the commission has committed itself to making proposals for simplified rules on cost eligibility issues. this includes extending the use of lump sums or flat-rate payments wherever this is appropriate. in its recent communication on tolerable risk, the commission proposes to redefine the control system in terms of risk objectives and an acceptable level of error. we hope for the support of the parliament in these political discussions and later in negotiations with the council. the commission looks forward to the parliament’s support in general in rationalising and simplifying budget delivery and then in examining future legislation in general. i thank you for the questions. this is the least attractive question we usually receive because it is sometimes treated as being too technical. no matter how good the political decisions being made are, good politics can fail if we do not have efficient delivery mechanisms.
thank you for your comprehensive reply, commissioner. you spoke about the responsibility of member states. can you specify the progress being made in simplifying the basis of calculation of eligible costs and making greater use of lump-sum payments, particularly in the area of the structural funds? my second question relates to the consultation document itself and the largely negative response to agriculture. if we look at the consultation document, it lists tomorrow’s challenges as diversity, scientific and technical progress, the knowledge economy, climate change, energy security, but it does not mention food security. so, is the negative response to agriculture unduly influenced by the document itself?
thank you, commissioner, not only for your response but also your comments in relation to marian harkin’s words on food security. i think it is a big gap in the market. let me draw your attention to the report i drew up and which was voted through in this parliament today by an overwhelming majority of people supporting the cap and its role in global food security, and to the discussion we had about falling dairy farm incomes. we need to have some reality check here on those who suggest wild reforms. we are talking about food for european citizens and incomes for those who live and manage the rural environment. i would like you to bear those in mind as we go forward.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghlacadh leis an gcoimisinéir as ucht an fhreagra sin. ba mhaith liom ceist fhorlíontach a fhiafraí ort, a choimisinéir. maidir le cibearbhulaíocht nó tromaíocht a dhéantar, go háirithe ar dhaoine óga a úsáideann suíomhanna sóisialta cosúil le bebo agus facebook, ba cheart deireadh a chur leis an tromaíocht nó bulaíocht a dhéantar ar ghasúir ar na suíomhanna sin. céard atá i gceist ag an aontas eorpach a dhéanamh chun a chinntiú go mbeidh níos mó aird tarraingthe ar an mbulaíocht seo ag an bpobal?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in a very brief supplementary question, what is the european union doing to confiscate the assets of terrorists within the union, and can the commissioner outline how many criminal assets bureaux are currently in operation in the european union?
i would like the commissioner to indicate whether he is getting full cooperation between all 27 member states in relation to information exchange between police forces. if not, which countries are taking a different line, and has the irish government requested any opt-out in this particular area?
mr president, the question refers to eu policy having a major humanitarian element and guaranteeing respect for human rights. just recently in ireland someone was being deported even though the person’s daughters would be subject to female genital mutilation. has the commission encouraged member states to adopt a common position on this? in some states in europe it is still not illegal, and would the commission encourage member states to adopt a common position on dealing with this very difficult issue?
i am not sure if bookmakers and tote operators and operators of the pari-mutuels qualify under the professions, but certainly in terms of the single market and free movement of services it is an issue. where is this debate at? i do know that the commission’s offices have been involved and i am still receiving quite a lot of vexed representation in this area. secondly, as regards recognition of the professional qualifications directive and the whole area of mutual evaluation which the commissioner referred to, are any problems likely there? are we comparing like with like if we are opening up professions in one member state to another?
i know that the commission has put forward proposals on credit rating agencies and other initiatives that address instability in financial markets to try and ensure that a similar crisis does not reoccur such as crd, deposit guarantee schemes and member state balance of payments. could i ask him, what proposals does the commission plan to put forward to encourage growth and competitiveness in the real economy, especially in the sme sector which is particularly important now as more and more european economies are experiencing recession?
i hope the commissioner's voice gets a little bit better. let me thank the commissioner for his reply and say to him that i am glad to hear that protectionism is not on the way back because that would indicate that there is not going to be a recovery. there will be a recovery in europe. could i invite the commissioner to start talking about that recovery? the most hopeful thing we have heard in some time were the comments made by president trichet reported in today’s press, where he said that he could see a recovery coming in 2010. could i invite the commissioner to start talking about the future so that we do not lose hope and also to talk about the opportunity there is for europe to become more competitive while this particular crisis is ongoing?
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner as well for his response and advise him that a drop of whisky, some hot water and a slice of lemon is very good for clearing the throat. with regard to your answer, and in particular concerning the economic recovery plans and so on, what has been highlighted over the last number of months has been that coordinated action is the only response that can deal with the present financial crisis. the question i want to ask is whether any plans have been made or any initial contacts been made with the incoming american administration – the obama administration – to see what further coordinated action at financial level is required?
madam president, i welcome the commission’s statement tonight and look forward to reading in more detail exactly what is in this package. some years ago here we had the pharmaceutical review. that included veterinary medicines, as well as human pharmaceuticals. i am just wondering why the two have been divorced at this stage in the proceedings. the commission will be aware of my interest through the legislation on maximum residues, which feed into the food chain through veterinary pharmaceuticals. i have been critical of serious shortcomings in the veterinary medicines directive now for some time. could the commissioner just comment on drug interaction and multi-drug therapy and drug-resistance issues in relation to this discussion here tonight? i, like others, feel there should be far more patient information now. patients should not have to ‘compete’ – if that is the word – with what is on the internet, where there is sometimes a lot of misinformation. they should get properly reviewed scientific information at first hand with their medicines. finally, i also have concerns with the role of drug companies in influencing doctors’ prescription habits. could the commissioner comment, please?
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i am very happy to speak on this issue here tonight. i believe that the job of a fisherman, or indeed a fisherwoman insofar as there are some, is one of the most dangerous jobs in the world. certainly, in ireland alone, rarely does a year pass without some fishing boat being lost at sea, and many fishers are injured in their work. as a former minister for social welfare in ireland it was my task to try and find a way in which the rights of people working on fishing boats could be respected. it is an extremely complex area, where the issue is whether one is working under a ‘contract of work’ or a ‘contract for work’ – the difference being between those who are working as a normal employee for tax purposes and thus pay their social contributions to the skipper who is an employer, and those who share the proceeds of the catch, who are not treated as normal employees. the difficulties in reconciling those positions are extremely complex. as a minister i managed to find a piece of european legislation which resolved the problem for a short period, but unfortunately it was subsequently challenged and found not to apply precisely to the issues at stake. the importance of having common minimum standards which are globally applied really goes without saying. these include standards of health and safety on board, accommodation, the provision of food, and indeed the guarantee that minimum rates of pay are also applied to those who are employees, and that there is an obligation on boat owners and skippers to ensure that people’s contributions are fully paid up. it is important that these are global minimum standards, because unfortunately the tendency has been for a race to the bottom in this area, as indeed in other areas too, so having this convention approved as soon as possible would certainly be something that i would urge at a very early stage. i think 2012 is a long way away and we should try to shorten this deadline if at all possible.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, it is vitally important that fishermen have work conditions that are reasonable, as safe as a high-risk occupation like fishing can be and that offer a decent return that allows fishermen and women to support themselves and their families. the financial return also needs to be a stable and reliable base for maintaining our coastal communities. as it happens, the coastal communities in my constituency are finding it very difficult to survive. the question for me in this debate is whether ratification of convention 188 of the international labour organisation, thereby extending the regulation and policy to those who work in fishing, will be a promotion and a protection to fishermen or an obstacle, and whether or not it can achieve the global level playing field that our fishing industry needs to survive. a kenyan delegation told me of a japanese factory ship that harvests their waters and those of their neighbours. what conditions do those working in that factory ship experience? from what i was told i suspect they were not good. what i do know is that the fish caught do not benefit the people of africa, even though they are from their territorial waters. when that fish is sold on the international market they are not sold at prices that europe, especially ireland, can match. fishermen out of work in ireland are denied social welfare payments and this creates great hardship. therefore, if ratification will achieve a significant decrease in fishing fatalities, ensure social security benefits for fishermen and social benefits, like medical care and the dole, then i welcome it and encourage its ratification. if it further promotes fishing as a viable industry for the small and medium operator, especially family-owned fishing boats, then i certainly can support it, because, as it is, fishing is dangerous and in many parts of the world exploitive – not just of fish, but also of people. can it, and will it? i hope so.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, tá gá le caidreamh polaitiúil agus eacnamaíoch níos fearr a chothú idir an taontas eorpach agus meiriceá. táim ag súil leis go dtabharfaidh uachtaránacht phoblacht na seice aghaidh air seo sna míonna atá romhainn. beidh uachtarán nua ar mheiriceá an tseachtain seo chugainn; agus tá dúshláin mhóra romhainn ar fad. beidh orainn na margaí airgeadais a rialú go luath, dar ndóigh. president-in-office, we welcome you to this house today, in particular we welcome the presidency of the czech republic to take over the leadership of the european union at a very crucial time. on behalf of my group, the union for europe of the nations group, we also offer our support towards your programme to guarantee that there is a clear and stronger voice for the european union, as well as the member states within the european union. many colleagues have spoken already with regard to the current series of crises, and, at the outset, i want to pay tribute to both your presidency and to president barroso for the decisive action that was taken when the issue with regard to the cutting-off of the gas supply to the european union was brought about, and not just because we apportioned blame but because we immediately intervened on a social level, an economic level and on a political level to bring both sides to sit down to talk each other where they had failed before. that is why it is important under the presidency now to expand this idea of partnership with the east, that we look to the east and to the balkans because they are the fault lines within the european union at the present time, not only because of political instability but also because of our interdependence on energy and economic activity. finally, because time is so short, you spoke about the fifth freedom – the freedom of the movement of knowledge. that knowledge can give us the tools that we now require to move up the chain of the innovation, research and abilities that can be made towards us. through your own history – individually, as well as a country – of totalitarianism, freedom, and greatness in education and innovation, we now look to you to give us the next step to where the european union must move. let me finish with a short quote from john f. kennedy who said in his inauguration speech: ‘we stand today on the edge of a new frontier. but the new frontier of which i speak is not a set of promises – it is a set of challenges’. i know you have the capacity to meet those challenges.
mrs. president, i should like to welcome the president-in-office and to wish him well in his presidency and also to wish his people well. as an irish member, i should like to thank the czech government and people. when my people voted in a referendum to reject the lisbon treaty, the czech representation alone said it respected the irish vote. in an environment of disrespect for the french, dutch and irish votes – and of people not allowed to vote – this respect was very welcome. respect is a valuable and necessary attitude. in europe we are faced with many crises. you have spelled out an ambitious programme to deal with these. such a programme requires respect between member states. it also requires respect for the peoples of those member states to have any hope of success. i am impressed at the respect you have shown your people in acknowledging that they, like the irish, would, if given a chance, probably reject the lisbon treaty as well. such respect bodes well for your presidency and for europe.
madam president, like everyone in this parliament i wish the czech presidency-in-office well. however, i am appalled, president-in-office, by your disgraceful comment here this morning that lisbon is worse than nice. that is not only untrue, it is divisive and it is a breach of trust. now you have to seriously consider withdrawing your comments here this morning in relation to lisbon. we need the more united democratic effective union offered by lisbon to face the many problems, any one of which can plunge our world into conflict: energy security, climate change, the economic and financial crisis, and the many wars in many regions. as president-in-office, your task is to mediate for, and lead, europe based on our common values of solidarity – internally and externally – a social market economy, multilateralism and equality between men and women – and that includes the right of both men and women to share the task of parenting. president-in-office, you must park your conservative and neo-liberal views for six months, otherwise you are going to be in conflict constantly with this parliament for those six months. ireland will probably have a referendum on a clarified lisbon treaty in the autumn of this year. i will work hard to ensure a positive outcome for ireland and europe. your comments here today have made that task much harder. if the referendum fails, sir, you will not be thanked by the vast majority of europeans. (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. – the failure of the european council to date to address the real issues behind the irish ‘no’ to the lisbon treaty make it possible that there will be a second ‘no’ vote. realising that a second ‘no’ vote is a realistic prospect the czech presidency is looking to prepare for the eventuality that the lisbon treaty will not enter into force. it is looking to prepare a ‘plan b’ for the selection of a new commission under the rules of the nice treaty. the reported idea of selecting a commission of 26 commissioners plus a high representative for european foreign and security policy from the 27th member state is just one possible way in which this issue could be dealt with. people across the eu recognise that the lisbon treaty is not the panacea that many of its most fervent supporters present it as being. on the contrary: it could serve to deepen the economic and social problems facing us. on the crisis in gaza, the response of the czech presidency is very far from what is required. the eu must take concerted action to uphold the rights of beleaguered palestinians and to try and end the bloodshed.
mr president, i just want to put on the record that i voted against the cappato report in the end because i believe there is a better report due before parliament which will deal with these matters. i also want to say that parliament does need to do something in relation to our records when there are members of parliament who have been here for over four and a half years, who have drawn a salary for all of that time, and who have spoken for less time than mr burke, who has been in the parliament for six months. i think it is time we drew attention to this. there are people who do not participate in this parliament, in its committees or in its plenary. some of them are members of small groups. they come in here and get speaking time before they rush off to the airport and spend their time in our national member states, instead of being out here, telling people how awful democracy is in the european union. well, democracy is awful in the european union if members of this parliament who do not turn up here can be paid a salary to continue with this sort of flagrant abuse of democracy. i want to put that on the record, mr president. i believe that when we are reforming, when we are making documents available, when we are ensuring that there is greater transparency, we should take steps to show which parliamentarians are participating in the work of parliament and which are not.
mr president, some substances are so dangerous that they must be completely banned or have their use confined to severely restricted uses, surrounded by the strictest health and safety precautions. dcm is one of these substances and must be taken out of circulation.
mr president, in the catania report many in this house have, once again, tried to use human rights as an excuse to promote abortion, despite the fact that abortion denies millions of babies yearly the most important human right – life, the human right on which all other rights depend. further, as an irish mep and voter, it is interesting to note that this report and the amendments link the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights with the legislation of abortion in the eu.
mr president, at the outset can i ask the services to note that on paragraph 31 the first part of my vote should have been in favour. i suggest that this report could have done more for areas of disability that need more work. on that note, however, i am happy that parliament chose to support my amendment 42 which urges the commission to make sure that money goes only to member states who meet the criteria of the un convention when it comes to deinstitutionalisation. this is a key issue for me and for many people in this house. there are many issues in this report – as others have said – that are for subsidiarity, and not for the european union, which does not legislate on abortion and should not and will not be legislating on abortion. so i could not support the overall report. instead, i abstained because i believe the disability amendment is important for those of us who care for those who do not speak, have no voice and are not listened to.
in writing. − alexander graf lambsdorff has presented a proposal concerning the commission’s ‘defence package’, covering procurement for both military and non-military security purposes as well as covering public contracts concluded between eu operators. this proposal improves upon the 2004 directive (2004/18/ec) currently in force by increasing flexibility, transparency and, vitally, fair competition. the defence procurement market is a very specific one, and mr lambsdorff has provided a means of addressing its complex nature. there are express exemptions for certain obligations relating to disclosure when contrary to the security concerns of the member state. while defence procurement remains essentially a national competence, this proposal helps create a single european market for defence and security materials through a structured legal framework. this is a market worth eur 90 billion annually. mr lambsdorff has proposed a common position that i can support.
in writing. − i support this report which makes recommendations on a broad range of issues including discrimination, immigration, social rights and gender equality. it notes that the recommendations of this parliament in its report on cia rendition activities in the eu (feb 2007) have not yet been implemented by member states and eu institutions. the fight against terrorism can never be used to diminish the level of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. indeed, to defend human rights is precisely to fight against terrorism in both its causes and effects. in that respect, i welcome the statement by us president-elect barack obama on closing the guantanamo bay detention facility and to never again practice rendition. the report also suggests raising public awareness about women's right to fully enjoy their sexual and reproductive rights, including the facilitation of access to contraception to prevent all unwanted pregnancies and illegal high-risk abortions, and, to combat the practice of female genital mutilation. moreover, the report urges member states to take legislative action to overcome discrimination experienced by same-sex couples by recognising such relationships. member states with legislation on same-sex partnerships should move to recognise provisions with similar effects adopted by other states.
in writing. − the catania report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in the years 2004-2008 stresses the need to protect the rights of minorities, to fight all discrimination against all vulnerable categories. i welcome this report which includes important elements drawn from written declaration 111 on ending street homelessness, which was adopted by the european parliament in april 2008. i particularly welcome the report's call for the introduction of winter emergency plans for the homeless, for a framework definition of homelessness and for the gathering of reliable statistical data on homelessness across the eu. ending street homelessness is a fundamental issue in the european union. this report is an additional step towards pushing the european council, commission and member states to act on homelessness. finally, the lisbon treaty will not advance the situation concerning fundamental rights in the eu. support for this report does not imply support for that treaty. in fact, the european parliament's refusal to respect the irish no vote runs contrary to the spirit of the charter.
in writing. − the present own-initiative proposal by marco cappato requests that parliament endorse the report on the implementation of regulation 1049/2001, which deals with public access to documents held by parliament, the commission and the council when used in their legislative capacity. while the aim to increase transparency in the european institutions has my full support, there are three main points in this regulation which i feel warrant further examination. (1) the vital protection of client-lawyer confidentiality is not sufficiently protected as it stands in the turco judgment referred to in the initial paragraphs, and the call to apply it cannot be supported. (2) the individual processes whereby national governments reach decisions may also be undermined by removing consent required to release documents transmitted to eu institutions, and (3) these eu-wide recommendations do not take into account the different approaches relating to freedom of information in member states. a certain degree of confidentiality is required to ensure full and frank political discussions among political groups, and the broadcasting of these opinions has the potential to do more harm than good. the prospect of restrained exchanges replacing vigorous debate does not bode well for our democratic institutions. (explanation of vote abbreviated under rule 163(1))
a uachtaráin, tá an cogadh atá ar siúl i ngaza scanrúil agus scannalach. tá fhios ag madraí an bhaile nach n-oibreoidh réiteach míleata sa mheán oirthear. réiteach polaitiúil isea an an t-aon bhealach ina gcuirfear síocháin agus athmhuintearas ar siúl arís sa cheantar. caithfear deireadh a chur leis an bhfoiréigean láithreach chun é sin a dhéanamh. tacaím le cruthú stát neamhspleách inmharthana na bpalaistíneach, ach ní mór geilleagar réasúnta maith agus plean polaitiúil ceart a chur i réim. ba chóir go mbeadh sé mar aidhm againn an dá stát sin, ina bhfuil meas ag an dá stát ar a chéile, a chinntiú sa réigiún. tá cead ag iosrael í fhéin a chosaint, ach tá sí imithe thar fóir leis na hionsaithe seo. tá na hionsaithe mí-mhórálach, agus ní féidir leis an bpobal idirnáisiúnta glacadh leo. caithfear an próiseas síochána sa mheáin oirthear a chur ar fáil láithreach. tá súil agam go mbeidh an tuachtarán nuathofa i meiriceá, barack obama, ag obair air seo. guímid gach rath air sa dualgas mór agus sa dúshlán atá roimhe.
mr president, what is happening in gaza is heartbreaking. that the devastation is perpetuated by a supposedly western nation is unfathomable. i agree 100% that israelis have a right to live without the threat of rocket attacks. but what is being done in gaza is not justice: it is slaughter. there is no excuse; there is no possible justification. the most shameful thing for us in the eu is that it is being carried out by one of our preferred trading partners. in 2007 the value of eu-israel trade was eur 25.7 billion. given the amount of money we contribute to israel’s economy, we carry a grave responsibility when that money contributes to the death of civilians and children. if we do not act, the blood of those in gaza will equally stain our hands. i call on this parliament and all eu bodies to impose trade sanctions on israel immediately and to keep them in place until a meaningful ceasefire is agreed. if we do any less than our utmost to stop this killing, we become accessories to the slaughter.
mr president, i could agree with what mr van orden says about hamas, but the fact is that none of what he says justifies the bombing of civilians by israel. that is the fundamental point: we have to stop the bombing, whether it is coming from hamas or coming from israel. i hope the resolution accompanying this debate will receive a strong vote in this house tomorrow, and i hope it will strengthen the hands of the commission and the council in pressuring both israel and hamas to stop the killing. since israel withdrew from gaza, it has turned it into the largest prison in the world, and for the last three weeks it has turned it into a slaughterhouse, illegally using terror against terror, killing civilian men, women and children, and killing the possibility of a viable two-state solution in the process. there can be no upgrading of europe’s relations with israel so long as it fails to engage in constructive and substantive negotiations with its neighbours and all the palestinian elected members, including hamas. it should be made clear by europe that any escalation of this war on gaza will be followed by an escalation of our reaction to that war.
mr president, hamas unleashed terror on israel’s citizens and has provoked retaliation. it seems from this distance that some of them relish the new civilian – including child – martyrs and the publicity it gives their cause, no matter how horrible it is for right-thinking people to take that in. i have never given succour to terrorism, nor am i a critic of israel, which has a right to peaceful coexistence in the region, but we would have to be turnips not to feel emotional upset and moral shame at what is happening at present in gaza. the israeli response is totally disproportionate and the deaths of young children are particularly shameful. i have not, to date, opposed the new eu-israel agreement. i believe the advice of the dalai lama last month here in parliament that the best way to influence china on tibet is to keep good relations with them. i think that also applies to eu-israel relations, but how can we get their attention to express the level of revulsion felt here at the scale of what is happening? i may add that yesterday a note on the humanitarian needs of the region was distributed to those of us who attended the joint meeting of the foreign affairs committee and the development committee. i urge the commission and the council to ensure that a totally comprehensive humanitarian aid package is ready so that we can move in there and help these suffering people at the first opportunity.
mr president, it is very clear that the parties to this conflict are failing to respect international humanitarian law and that the civilian population of gaza is consequently paying a very heavy price. there must be accountability in international law where such warfare principles as proportionality and non-discrimination are not respected. one of the tenets of a just war provides that conduct should be governed by the principle of proportionality. the force used must be proportional to the wrong endured. unfortunately we have seen a large degree of carelessness by the israelis. while acknowledging the fact that hamas began the rocket attacks against israel, the israeli reaction has, in my opinion, been disproportionate. the numbers speak for themselves: over 900 palestinians have been killed in contrast to a much smaller number of israelis. israel must realise its responsibility to measure its use of force right away in compliance with international law. on the other hand, it cannot be overlooked that hamas is still listed as a terrorist organisation by the eu and continues to refuse to renounce its arms struggle. not only that, but hamas has consistently declined to recognise israel’s right to exist. hamas and other palestinian armed groups must recognise that the people of southern israel have a right to live without bombardment.
in writing. – there is something disturbing about a world apparently helpless to save innocent children from being blown apart in war. despite all the words, there has been no let-up in the bombardment of gaza, which has, so far, resulted in the deaths of 139 children and injury to 1 271. sadly, these shocking numbers will increase. hamas rocket attacks on israel have provoked the response it desired – counter-attacks and the loss of civilian life and a further entrenchment of positions. i deplore that innocent civilians are used as human shields. this has to stop. i do not apportion blame – there is wrong on both sides, but i do stress the need for an immediate and effective ceasefire. it is vital to allow unimpeded access for humanitarian assistance and aid to gaza without delay. would that humanity could only see the futility of such wars. every image of the dead in gaza inflames people across the arab world, and i am worried that the essential tenet of the middle east peace process is slipping away: the so-called two-state solution, an independent palestinian state coexisting in peace with israel. it is incumbent on the international community to redouble its efforts to find a solution.
thank you, council, for the detailed answer, which i will need to study, although i do not think we will agree. i would draw your attention to a report voted through this parliament on global food security, for which i was a rapporteur, which very clearly says that the market will not provide us with food security and certainly will not give farmers the income stability that they require. so could you clarify for me whether you believe that free trade in agriculture is the way forward and that that is your priority under your presidency?
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghlacadh leis an uachtarán-in-oifig as ucht a fhreagra. ba mhaith liom ceist a chur air maidir leis na pleananna atá ag uachtarán na seice chun tacaíocht a thabhairt do na ceantair atá faoi mhíbhuntáiste. mar is é mo thuiscint go bhfuil gá le cabhair bhreise, rud atá ag teastáil go géar ó na ceantair atá faoi mhíbhuntáiste sa chomhbheartas talmhaíochta eorpach. ba mhaith liom a fháil amach céard atá i gceist ag an uachtaránacht a dhéanamh faoi sin.
may i wish the czech presidency every success during its term in office. i would like the minister to comment on the experience to date of czech farmers and the czech agri-food industry of the common agricultural policy, whether they are satisfied and whether it has made good improvements to their particular lots in different enterprises. how do they – and how do you, the czech people – view the common agricultural policy as applied to the czech republic?
mr president, given that external relations is one of the key priorities of the czech presidency, i would ask the presidency of the council to outline what moves it would consider taking to encourage the belarusian government to lift its international travel ban on children travelling to eu member states for rest and recuperation programmes. i urge the new czech presidency to negotiate a pan-european agreement allowing belarusian children affected by the chernobyl disaster to travel to any member state within the eu. i have, with my colleagues, added paragraph 10 to the present european parliament resolution to this effect. in august of last year, the belarusian government announced it was outlawing overseas visits after one child refused to return home following a trip abroad. the irish government managed to secure an exemption which allowed children to travel to ireland this christmas, but many other children still have to secure exit visas to leave belarus in order to participate in rest and recuperation programmes. some 1 000 irish families host belarusian children in their homes every summer and at christmas, which often includes medical assessment and in some cases treatment. while i welcome the belarusian authorities’ decision to temporarily lift the travel ban on a number of victims of the chernobyl disaster, i would urge the presidency to keep the pressure on so that an eu-wide agreement can be secured in the near future, giving belarusian children the freedom to travel to anywhere within the eu. i have also raised the international travel ban with you, commissioner, and in your response to my letter you said that representations had been made both through the european commission delegation in minsk and also most recently during the visit to minsk in early november by the relex deputy director-general. i would like to ask you if you have an update on eu advocacy efforts to have this oppressive ban lifted.
mr president, it is very important that animals are transported to ensure safety and to prevent avoidable suffering. i use this term because animals, as a rule, find any motorised transport frightening. it is important to minimise that where possible. when regulating for this safety and prevention of suffering, we tend to look at time and distance. this is natural, but it is simplistic in the case of ireland, which, i remind you, is an island and also a major animal exporter. time limits and distance when crossing the waters that separate us from the continent and from our markets cannot be the absolute. we heard a recommendation of eight hours, but it takes more than eight hours to get an animal boarded and across water. there is no possibility of taking an animal out to graze in the middle of the channel. so i would recommend to you that we look at the conditions under which the animals are transported, particularly in the case of ireland, rather than just time and distance.
mr president, in terms of legislation we are looking at a relatively new regulation on the protection of animals during transport, because it only came into operation in january 2007. while i think we would all hope that everybody was compliant from day one with the many demands of this regulation, it would be quite miraculous were that the case, because it is very detailed and makes huge demands – and rightly so – on member states and operators. i welcome today’s oral question by neil parish, chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development, because we want to see whether this regulation works. however, we need, first of all, to know that it is being implemented, because we care about how animals are moved around the european union. for countries like ireland with a huge livestock sector, there has been an enormous amount of work done to implement this from day one, both within the sector itself and on the part of those who monitor – the department of agriculture and other authorities. licensed operators have invested large amounts of money to upgrade their transporters and to meet the training and competence requirements of this regulation. in fact, i note that, just this month in ireland, a number of training courses are under way for drivers of vehicles transporting cattle, sheep, goats, pigs, horses and poultry – a point raised by ms jeggle – and perhaps other member states need to do the same. it is interesting that the regulation applies only to the transport of animals undertaken in connection with an economic activity. i have a concern that we ignore the welfare of domestic pets, because i have seen examples of people who think that they know how to look after animals doing very badly on that front and yet very often these are the same people who insist on particular rules for farming and for economic activity. that is an area we need to look at. i believe that, in general, established transporters of animals are licensed and authorised and comply with best welfare standards – because it is in their vital interests to do so: they need to transport animals to arrive in good condition so that they meet the needs of those who are purchasing. the problem is with the unregulated sector, where some people are untouched by these rules, and that is what we need to focus on. who are the people who are outside the box, and how can we catch them and put them out of business? let me say in relation to time-limits and the eight-hour rule, the reason why europe had a real problem in getting this regulation into place was because many member states, including ireland, know that we need to transport our animals for longer durations, but we also know how to look after them in so doing. so i would disagree with those who want to reduce the time duration, but i agree that we need to make sure that welfare is a priority. on horses, i often say to myself that i wish i were a thoroughbred, because they travel first-class. obviously, people look after animals with a high economic value, and in the economic downturn we are going through, i worry about the welfare of horses, full stop. i would say: no more rules. we have perhaps too many already that are choking the sector that is complying with them. but let us apply the rules to everybody, and let us get those who are not meeting the rules out of the system.
mr president, i am strongly of the opinion that the quality of the vehicle and skills of the driver are as important as, if not more important than, the length of journeys. two hours in a banger or clapped-out vehicle driven at excessive speed, especially when cornering, have far more serious welfare implications than eight or ten hours in a comfortable, properly equipped modern lorry, driven with care and consideration for the animal occupants. the welfare of horses for slaughter continues to be a serious concern, and there is ongoing evidence of some member states ignoring – perhaps choosing to ignore – the legislation in this area. commissioner, have you received last june’s annual report from ireland? which countries have failed to file the report? will these reports be available on the internet? and do you have details of the number of proceedings being brought in each member state? please give me answers to those four questions.
mr president, it seems rather futile to welcome this motion for a resolution on gaza which, of course, i do, because thus far words have not been heard above the noise and din of rocket-fire, bullets and the cries of men, women and children who have been wounded and who have died in the region. but it may be that today there will be further movements towards a ceasefire in the region, which would be most welcome. in that respect, we support the efforts of egypt to broker a ceasefire. while egypt and the arab leaders may bring influence to bear on hamas, when it comes to israel, i think it is the us which carries that influence, although i hope that this motion for a resolution, which was resoundingly supported in parliament today, will add further to the pressure for immediate and effective humanitarian aid, for a ceasefire and for a lasting peace in the region.
in writing. − i unconditionally condemn the indiscriminate and brutal killing of civilians in gaza, as i do the callous and indefensible killing of israeli civilians by hamas rockets. i voted for the european parliament resolution on gaza because it explicitly supports the un security council resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire. it also draws attention to the decision by the parliament in december to defer the upgrading of eu relations with israel. while the language of the resolution is weaker than i would have wished, nevertheless a resolution carried by an overwhelming vote of the parliament is more likely to influence the decisions of israel and hamas than individual political group resolutions. i oppose the upgrading of eu relations with israel and believe the trade agreement with israel should be suspended until it complies with human rights norms and engages in constructive and substantive negotiations with its neighbours to implement the two-state solution to the conflict. all member states should now agree to cancel their earlier decision to upgrade relations with israel as a means of bringing them to the table with realistic proposals.
author. − mr president, i regret the signing of the kenya communications (amendment) bill by president kibaki. this act disregards the rights to freedom of expression and press freedom as enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights and echoed by other international conventions, including the african charter on human and peoples’ rights. this act would give considerable powers to the kenyan information minister to raid media houses deemed to be a threat to national security and to dismantle broadcasting equipment. the act will also give the state the power to regulate contents to be aired and published by electronic and print media respectively. i welcome, however, president kibaki’s recent move to revise this media law and his gesture to consider amendments to legislation proposed by members of the media. freedom of expression is a fundamental human right, as stated in article 19 of the universal declaration of human rights. i call on the kenyan government to initiate a stakeholder consultation in order to build consensus on how to better regulate the communications industry without interfering with press freedom and without infringing rights contained within the universal declaration. finally, i would like to underline the need to adjust the culture of impunity in kenya in order to bring those responsible for the post-election violence a year ago to justice. i call for the setting-up of an independent commission consisting of local and international legal experts who would carry out investigations and prosecutions into the violent events following the flawed elections in december 2007.
mr president, two and a half years ago, i found out that the european commission had initiated proceedings against denmark in the european court of justice because denmark had introduced a 2% threshold for hydrogenated fats in food. the commission did this even though there was scientific evidence to the contrary, which showed in fact that hydrogenated acids are extremely difficult from the point of view of coronary disease etc. two years ago, therefore, i decided – in conjunction with two of our colleagues, dan jørgensen and linda mcavan – to draft a written declaration. we were supported by 254 members of parliament from 25 different member states, which was huge support. recently, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety published a report which gave the maximum level as 2%, which is exactly what denmark was doing. therefore, on the basis of the medical and scientific evidence, i call on the commission now to adopt fully the 2% threshold, which denmark’s system introduced and which is recommended in this report from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
madam president, i should like to welcome the commissioner. her predecessor, mr mandelson, was well known in ireland, for reasons with which i am sure she is very familiar. the issue of the doha round is not being talked about amongst the people of europe. it is being discussed in places like this, but when i meet people who have lost a job, for example, they do not say, ‘let’s do doha’. so i think there is no connection between doha and economic development, despite all of the theory that is advanced here. on the globalisation of financial markets, i could suggest that this is a case where globalisation has failed us – although perhaps it would be fairer to say that it is the regulation of financial markets, or the lack thereof, that has failed us. i am interested in commissioner mccreevy’s recent comments to the effect that some of the problems in this area have been caused by member states’ regulators building empires. that is perhaps for another debate, but it exemplifies how, though we talk of globalisation as being a great thing, that has not been true in the financial sector. on agriculture – which was addressed by the other speakers just prior to me – i gathered that agriculture was not the sticking point at doha. but it is a very serious issue and one that i have huge concerns about. maybe it is because i am older than the last speaker – who is in my political group – that i regard agriculture as rather important, because it produces food and is therefore higher up the scale than he placed it. i think we should remember that. we voted in this house on a report that i produced about global food security. we are concerned about it, as we should be. it should be an issue that is discussed at the doha level. another issue is how european producers – farmers – can be competitive when in the european union we have different, higher, standards of animal welfare in relation to the environment, which are not addressed at the wto. you will only bring our citizens with you on this journey if those issues are addressed at the wto. quite frankly, i think there was never an occasion when we needed direct discussion of these things in this chamber, and in geneva, more than we do now. i would ask you if, in your concluding comments, you could address some of those very real issues, so that people realise that they are being discussed. i do not see the doha round developing at the speed that you are suggesting. perhaps i am wrong.
madam president, thank you for providing me with another minute, because it is important for my comments about agriculture. there is an impression that european farmers are the only ones with concerns. however, the truth is that at doha the indian negotiators are concerned about their small farmers and the dire consequences that a move to free trade would have not only for individual farmers but also for social stability in their country. so the issue of agriculture is across all of the negotiating partners and we need a little bit of honesty about that. commissioner, perhaps, again, in your concluding comments you might address that.
madam president, we will never achieve either energy security or the 80% reduction in our carbon dioxide emissions by 2050 if we continue to effectively ignore both the issue of energy security and the critical importance of pan-european high-voltage direct current (hvdc) interconnection. that includes an hvdc line to north africa: smart electrical networks over europe and north africa. having had the opportunity last week to experience first hand the exciting solar thermal operations in grenada and seville, and having read over the weekend harvard professor michael mcelroy’s views on freeing the united states from its usd 750 billion annual bill for importing oil, winning the energy security battle in the us and at the same time saving the planet, i ask myself: what are we still debating? we know the answers. the smart grid will allow solar, wind and hydro-generated electricity to level the security graph. if the wind is not blowing off the irish west coast, the sun will be shining in spain, or the wind will be blowing off the west coast of north africa as well as the sun shining there. in short, what the sun is to spain, wind is to the west coast of ireland. our national regulators will breathe easy as their only job as of now if to keep the lights on and our homes and offices heated at peak demand. we can no longer allow our citizens to be hostage to either energy politics or volatile oil prices. wind energy is competitive with coal, oil and gas, and the fuel is free. yes, our challenge is to build a new energy economy – an energy economy built on renewable electricity. i conclude: the glib expression ‘to cost the earth’ which we – english-language speakers anyway – use figuratively with gay abandon now needs to be taken literally. if we do not rapidly change from our almost total dependence on fossil fuels, it will, as our peer review climate scientists repeatedly and with increasing urgency point out, do just that: cost the earth through global warming.
madam president, i am touched by the words ‘smart’ and ‘intelligent’, which are very much part of this debate, because the solutions we try and use in our house to reduce energy consumption are certainly not working and they are neither smart nor very intelligent. telling children to turn things off is just not the solution. i wish it were, as it would mean that i was in control. so we do need all of the things that others have spoken about: sensors and other technological advancements that will make everybody’s life easier in terms of achieving our energy efficiency objectives. tonight’s debate is a massive one: it is about our climate change agenda, security of supply, solidarity between member states and also economic growth – and that is an issue for us at the moment – and how we can achieve a better use of our energy resources. the country i come from, ireland, relies on oil for almost 60% of our energy needs and it is all imported. so, clearly, we have a particular problem. we need to reduce that dependency, we need to develop our indigenous resources and, as i have already mentioned, improve our efficiency. clearly, the issue of interconnection between member states is crucial particularly for countries on the periphery. ireland’s dependency is extremely high: 91% of our needs are imported. that is quite a staggering percentage, and while we have not experienced the gas problems that other colleagues have spoken about, or the cold and the horror that caused for other member states, we did learn, from watching that, how critical it is that we do something about our energy mix and our energy insecurity. so, all of the issues that are part of this report and the oral question are extremely important for us. in particular the issue of land use needs to be addressed. the swedish experience of forestries is interesting from the perspective of ireland, where we have not developed our forestry sector. but this is a key issue: getting the balance right between food production and fuel production.
madam president, energy policy and foreign policy are inextricably interlinked now more than ever. we see the need for a common eu energy policy in the light of the recent developments regarding gas supplies in central and eastern europe but, whilst it is one of the key innovations of the lisbon treaty, i regret to point out that this point was not highlighted sufficiently in the debates surrounding the treaty’s ratification. in ireland we have 12 days of gas supply at any one time. sixty per cent of our electricity is generated from imported gas, whereas the eu average is around 40%. on 28 january last, the commission published a proposal to accelerate work on addressing deficits in the eu energy infrastructure while contributing to economic recovery as part of a eur 5 billion package. the inclusion by the commission of the electricity interconnection between ireland and the uk as a priority area for funding under the european economic recovery package is a very welcome development in this regard. it further emphasises that when all 27 member states work together we can bring about the change that is required to ensure security of energy supply. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, on a point of order, i would like to protest at the overuse and the increasingly liberal use of rule 45(2) under which these most important debates are taken. i rise at this point because i particularly would have liked to have spoken on the excellent work of mr hegyi’s report and indeed i have colleagues coming on on subjects which are not discussed in my main committee and other colleagues’ main committees, and i am being denied the right to contribute toward them in plenary. in the ppe-de group we had a very vexed and heated argument both at working group and group level last week on the number of rule 45(2) items on our agenda this week. i really do feel we need to urgently revisit this rule. i know it is a rule that was set by parliament and the members themselves signed off on, but our good will, i feel, is being abused by the number of points on our agenda – the most important points on our agenda – that we are being increasingly disallowed to debate.
mr president, i should like to thank roberta angelilli for this excellent report. sex exploitation of children is a crime against the most vulnerable in our society, and i am, therefore, shocked that seven of our member states in the european union have still not signed the council of europe convention; nor, indeed, have eight of these states ratified the optional protocol to the un convention on the rights of the child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. the fact is that the internet now provides new routes for these crimes, and i think it is, therefore, incumbent on us to urge that the acts of using the internet for child pornography and for grooming of children be made a criminal offence. it is not enough for states to plead that this is difficult to do. we have to cooperate and coordinate our efforts in order to ensure we can do it. indeed, in all member states it should be possible for any citizen or person living in the european union who committed a crime outside the european union to be brought before the courts.
mr president, i would also like to congratulate mrs angelilli for her very fine report. i think we will all support such a report. as has been said, it is a crime, and anybody who would attack or in any way undermine children should be treated as criminals. unfortunately this is what is going on the internet. the internet is a wonderful tool, a wonderful source of information for all of us and something that will be part of our lives into the future. however, there are those who prey on children and they will use the internet as much as they possibly can to try to undermine children. about 8 out of 10 children in the european union use the internet and i think we must take particular care to protect the most vulnerable children from bullying, grooming and harassment. we need to promote public awareness and online safety, especially among children, but also among parents so that they know exactly what is going on and what can be done on the internet. i think member states should work together to introduce a network of contact points for the public to reach in order to report illegal and harmful content and conduct. it is important that both parents and children feel secure using the internet and have a point of contact to report any wrongdoing. in order to make those who are responsible for online grooming and pornography accountable, we should see this for what it is. it is a crime and should be treated as such.
madam president, there is such political agreement on this issue that it seems strange that so little is happening in member states. our focus on the internet is obviously very important, but it suggests that this problem is a new one, when we clearly know that it is a very old problem and was very well hidden. it happened not just outside schools with bags of sweets, but it happened in homes, in all of our member states, in churches and in hospitals. the internet has perhaps shone a light on this very dark part of society which we are still grappling with, and grappling very badly with. it is very urgent that member states take seriously their many fine words about protecting children, just as we in this house have spoken very much about how we value and protect children, whereas in fact our actions are often much weaker than the strong words we speak. i mentioned that the home is sometimes the most dangerous place for children. we had a recent case in ireland which highlighted this. i would also add that those who believe that small towns, where everyone knows one another, are a safe place for children, need to think again. in small towns people very often close their eyes because they do not want to speak about ‘soft information’ that they have, and are perhaps afraid to pass it on to the authorities. this is something that we all need to look at and be prepared to speak about, because silence causes abuse to grow, and causes awful damage to the children who are caught in that situation. i call on the irish government to bring forward legislation on a wide range of measures to protect children against sexual abuse. i think we also need to look at our constitution, which puts the family before the rights of the child. they should not be in conflict: both deserve protection from our constitution.
madam president, i welcome this debate and, in line with the accompanying motion for a resolution, i encourage all eu member states to sign and ratify the council of europe convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. i also urge all eu member states to sign up to the optional protocol to the un convention on the rights of the child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. the council of europe convention is the first international legal instrument to categorise the various forms of sexual abuse of children as criminal offences, including such abuse perpetrated with the use of force, coercion or threats, even within the family. however, seven eu member states have still not signed this convention, and eight member states have still to ratify the un optional protocol. the internet is increasingly being used by potential and actual sex offenders as a medium for the sexual abuse of children, in particular through grooming and child pornography. while i accept that irish criminal law protecting children against sexual abuse and exploitation is quite comprehensive, i would, nevertheless, urge the irish government to bring forward up-to-date legislation as soon as possible to deal with the proliferation of new ways by which children can be subject to sexual abuse.
madam president, there is an urgent need to protect workers from exploitation in these times of economic trauma, and the case to ensure the terms and conditions of european workers are not systematically driven down by exploitation of vulnerable migrant workers is unanswerable. responsibility for this rests squarely with member state governments and authorities. while member states need to take steps to regulate immigration, i regret very much that the legal base for this proposal is the fight against illegal immigration. the real fight is against rogue exploitative employers, and what we need at this time is an agenda that is pro-worker, not anti-immigrant. the political and economic imperative must be to stop the exploitation of irregular migrants, to punish rogue employers, not to scapegoat or criminalise workers, migrant or otherwise. the use of criminal sanctions in this proposal should not be the competence of the eu and those that argue that the expulsion of migrant workers is the solution to exploitation are misguided. this directive does not strike the right balance.
madam president, i welcome the report as we need to highlight and tackle this problem of employers exploiting illegal immigrants. i have received representations from constituents, so i welcome action on this matter. there are numerous damaging consequences, including the exploitation of immigrants through underpayment or, in some cases, non-payment. it creates negative pressures on the wages of legally resident workers and distortion of competition between companies that comply with employment legislation and those who flaunt it. in conclusion, if we are to strive to stamp out this illegal practice in our member states, we have to get across that this is not only a workers’ rights issue but also a competition issue.
mr president, to many colleagues a target of a 95% reduction in co2 emissions by 2050 may seem extreme but, if we are to accept – as i do – the peer-reviewed science as represented by the latest ipcc report, that level of reduction will be required if we are to keep the 2°c increase in global warming in our sights. secondly, while i voted against a range of nuclear-related amendments due to my ongoing concerns with nuclear fission, i have no problem with references to research on safety issues or on new generations of nuclear. like many, i watch and wonder as to whether nuclear fusion will ever become a reality. the third point i would like to put on the record is my ongoing concern with the irish situation and the lack of transparent and real ownership unbundling of our electricity grid, which remains a major disincentive to investment by other producers, especially using alternative fuels, with the result that the irish have one of the highest electricity costs in europe.
mr president, that issue of high electricity prices in ireland has been tackled by a colleague of ours, formerly of this chamber, simon coveney, and we hope that he is successful in it. i voted in favour of this report because it talks about sensible issues like energy efficiency and energy security related to the climate change agenda. i have concerns about nuclear power, as do many people in ireland, but i think we need to acknowledge that, when interconnectors are up and running, we are likely to be using power generated by the nuclear sector. so, yes, we need research into the safe disposal of nuclear waste and into new developments of this technology to enhance the safety and security of it. in the absence of that, i remain concerned and voted in accordance with those concerns in relation to this report. i particularly regret that amendment 37 was rejected, as i think it reflected very fairly many of the concerns of this house.
in writing. − mrs niebler has presented the report on the third extension of the eu-united states agreement, which supports the council decision concerning the extension of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america. as a mutually beneficial agreement advancing scientific knowledge and technological progress, i am very pleased to support this measure.
in writing. − i wish to record that i support this report on extension of the ec-usa agreement for scientific and technological cooperation. however, my voting machine did not work and i wish to record my vote in favour of this report for the record.
in writing. − mrs niebler has presented the report on renewal of the existing agreement between the ec and russia on cooperation in science and technology. peaceful collaboration and work between russia and eu is mutually beneficial in advancing scientific knowledge and research and i am delighted to support this measure.
in writing. − i wish to record that i support this report on agreement between the eu and russia on cooperation in science and technology. however, my voting machine did not work and i wish to record my vote in favour of this report for the record.
in writing. − mr hegyi’s own-initiative report emphasises the importance of the protection of wilderness areas in europe in the application of existing directives, proposing a definition of ‘wilderness’ as still untouched areas as well as ‘areas where human activities are minimal’. while the report is welcome, certain areas remain unclear; for example whether existing wilderness areas or potential future wilderness areas are being discussed. i would also like to know whether there are wilderness areas that are currently not listed as natura 2000 sites which would potentially come under the consideration of this report. areas of special consideration under natura 2000 fall under the competences of various dgs in the commission. while i am appreciative of the work undertaken by these different departments and their different mandates, increasing the levels of cooperation and coherence could greatly enhance the protection afforded by natura 2000 sites. i am pleased to support mr hegyi's report, but regret that due to the application of rule 45(2), i was denied the opportunity to debate it.
in writing. − mep queiró has responded to the commission’s communication ‘an agenda for sustainable future in general and business aviation’ and has highlighted several areas where policy considerations for the non-commercial air transport sector in general and business aviation have additional impact. of particular interest are the extension of community competence in areas of security and safety, and the impact on the sector of community initiatives such as the single european sky and the air traffic management system. ensuring safety, while ensuring that environmental concerns are met by the sector in a responsible manner, both in reducing noise pollution and reducing the volume of emissions generated, is a primary concern. the rate of growth of the sector and its diversity both make it one where future regulation will be necessary. this communication points to a path for developing future policy.
in writing. − my colleague mr harbour has presented an own-initiative report regarding increasing innovation in europe to ensure sustainable and high-quality public services. access to such services in a fair and equitable manner is essential for the full functioning of the free market. this communication addresses the issue of the research and development (r&d) phase of a pre-commercial product. pre-commercial procurement is a specific approach for the public sector to engage r&d, with a view to driving innovation to ensure sustainable high quality public services in europe. the scope of public services concerned covers health care, education, security, climate change and energy efficiency, all issues which benefit the entirety of society. the adoption of this strategy will allow for cost-effective value-added development of new and innovative solutions, and so i supported this proposal.
in writing. − i welcome this week the financial allocation of eur 100 million that is being given from the european union in support of the construction of new electricity networks between the east coast of ireland and wales. this new project is part of the eur 3.5 billion economic stimulus package which was announced by the european commission last week in brussels. it will help to construct more modern energy networks which will fully protect security of energy supplies into ireland into the future. the european union is also going to financially support new projects in the field of alternative energy, and this includes the wind energy sector. as a member of the european parliament's environment committee i have witnessed the growing dispute about energy supply. we all must reflect on what has been happening for a number of weeks now concerning energy supplies coming from russia into the eu via the ukraine. the reality is that we in the eu need to break down our absolute dependence on russian energy supplies. we need to develop other energy sectors
in writing. − i support this report which focuses on the various aspects of direct and indirect discrimination towards women and men who are responsible for taking care of dependents. it argues that a better understanding of the relationship between employment (paid work) and family obligations (unpaid work) is essential to enhance economic independence of women and consequently gender equality. the non-gainful employment of women and men who for instance, educate children, care for the elderly at home, provide intergenerational solidarity and work for the common good is still not considered economic work to this day. the report calls on member states to take measures aimed at the recognition of not just traditional forms of gainful employment but also of various other forms such as voluntary and domestic and family work, and to assess how they should be included in member states' systems of national accounts, and to assess its impact on gdp.
in writing. − mep záborská has presented a report which presents a definition of the term ‘work’ which includes non-monetary and informal labour, which extends recognition to non-market-based or non-remunerated work. despite the prevalence of this work in all member states, statistical evaluations of ‘labour forces’ rarely take this into account, leaving it under-analysed, ill appreciated and unrecognised. at the very least, all full-time mothers’ work must be credited for contributory pension purposes. i voted in support of this report despite some misgivings and concern with the overall thrust of the report.
in writing. − i fully support mep angelilli’s own-initiative report and the recommendation to the council on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. previous common positions have not yet been implemented in all member states, while the threat posed to children’s safety by greater technological progress continues to mount. this report would update and strengthen existing measures for combating these abhorrent behaviours, and define them as criminal offences, punishable by law. the implementation of ms angelilli’s report means that the protection of children from these abusive practices will increase in response to technological developments, targeting in particular the sinister practice of ‘grooming’. other important proposals include cross-border checking of persons convicted of sexual abuse, to prevent them from obtaining employment where they would have direct contact with children in other member states, and increased victim protection during investigations and trials. the internet is a vital part of our interconnected information society. children are more computer literate than ever but, with this increased literacy and confidence, the dangers posed by unscrupulous persons are not clearly apparent to them or to their less literate parents. these proposals aim to protect with common sense proposals the most vulnerable members of our societies.
i scríbhinn. − tá fás agus borradh ag teacht ar an teicneolaíocht faisnéise san aontas eorpach, agus muid anois sa “ré dhigiteach”. is cinnte go bhfuil buntáistí ollmhóra – ó thaobh poist, oideachas, saol sóisialta agus taighde de – ag baint leis an teicneolaíocht seo agus leis na háiseanna a ghabhann léi. ach ní chiallaíonn sé sin gur chóir dúinn neamhaird a dhéanamh de na dainséir a bhaineann leis an teicneolaíocht chéanna. tá saoirse ar leith ag baint leis an idirlíon – saoirse gan teorainneacha fisiciúla ná praiticiúla. is féidir maitheas a bheith leis an tsaoirse seo, mar a bhíonn an cuid is mó den am, ach is féidir úsáid a bhaint aisti chomh maith chun teacht i dtír gnéasach a dhéanamh ar leanaí agus i bpornagrafaíocht leanaí. níl aon ní níos tábhachtaí ná níos luachmhaire ná sláinte, folláine agus todhchaí ár leanaí. caithfimid gach rud is féidir a dhéanamh chun iad a chosaint ón olc. chuige sin, bhíos lánsásta mo thacaíocht a thabhairt do thuarascáil mde angelilli agus molaim í as an obair ar fad atá déanta aici ar an ábhar seo.
mr president, given that many eu member states were complicit in the process of extraordinary rendition, i believe that eu countries, including ireland, have a collective responsibility to accept a certain number of low-risk guantánamo detainees from the us for resettlement within the eu. irish minister for justice dermot ahern has made such an acceptance conditional on getting eu approval, but it is not necessary for ireland to wait for an eu directive to settle guantánamo detainees. we can decide ourselves to sign a bilateral agreement with the us, as portugal has done. the irish government ministers for justice and foreign affairs have not been singing from the same hymn sheet on this matter, with minister ahern being seemingly unprepared to go as far as minister martin regarding detainee settlement. cohesive leadership is now needed from the irish government in this regard. in a spirit of transatlantic cooperation and to participate in the fight against international terrorism, ireland should play its part to assist the new us administration in closing guantánamo.
i take the opportunity to follow up on the first part of this question and to raise the issue about public contracts generally and the issue of restricted tenders, which a lot of people would suggest represent, or result in, poor value for money. perhaps the commission might at some time – perhaps not now – address this issue, particularly in the more straitened economic circumstances that many of our member states face, and look again at the issue of contracts and tenders and, specifically, restricted tenders.
commissioner, while you might indicate in your reply that this is a very small problem in the overall context of things, nonetheless i am receiving quite a number of complaints from small businesses that it is becoming increasingly difficult for them and that they are encountering more problems. in order to address the issue of counterfeiting, i believe it is vitally important to have the maximum cooperation between the police, the european central bank, which you have already referred to, and the european commission. could you outline to me the current situation regarding this level of cooperation, and if you are particularly satisfied that the level of cooperation is good enough and strong enough?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his replies and to ask him whether, if there were three counterfeiters – ‘a’ operating in germany, ‘b’ operating in ireland and ‘c’ operating in slovakia – each of them would get the same sentence if they were caught counterfeiting. let me put it another way – is there an incentive, if you are a counterfeiter, to ply your trade in one state rather than another because the sentences there are less severe? in the united states, to counterfeit the currency is a serious crime. do we take the same attitude in the european union?
is the commissioner aware that the court of auditors said there were unacceptable spending errors in all but two of the seven policy areas covered under the eur 140 billion budget? and, yes, there have been improvements: the auditors estimated that at least 12% of the cohesion fund should not have been paid last year and it was down to 11% this year – that is an improvement. but 11% represented eur 462 million. does the commissioner think that this is acceptable? in other policy areas – agriculture, the environment, external aid, development and enlargement, research, energy and transport, education and citizenship – the error rate (i use the word ‘error’) was between 2% and 5% and the auditors observed that there was a ‘disproportionately’ (that is their word) large error rate for rural development, which now represents 20% of farm spending and is increasing. this is a mess, commissioner! can we expect that this is going to be improved?
vice-president of the commission. − i think that this particular question is quite difficult. from what i have read in this briefing, i think that, based on this andean community agreement, it is possible to go ahead with this, but i would be very happy to provide more detailed information through our services.
vice-president of the commission. − yes, i can definitely say that this is the commission’s approach. we have always been in favour of agreements between multilateral organisations, and we always see the dangers of bilateral dealing, which can easily end in confusion. i am very pleased that i was required to go to barbados to sign a free trade agreement between the european union and 14 countries in the caribbean region. this was a really big achievement. it has encouraged and boosted the trade between these countries tremendously, and has been greeted as a very positive step. so we will try, of course, to have this multilateral approach.
vice-president of the commission. − as you all know, the european union condemns terrorism in all its forms and firmly believes that the fight against terrorism must respect human rights in order to be effective and credible. sanctions against terrorists are taken in the context of the common foreign and security policy, and the commission is associated with decisions taken unanimously by the member states in the council. so the commission has taken good note of the fact that, in its judgment of 4 december 2008, the court of first instance annulled the council decision of 15 july 2008 that listed the people’s mojahedin organisation of iran (pmoi) as a terrorist organisation. the court argued that the pmoi’s right of defence and the right to effective judicial protection had not been respected. in particular, the reasons for the listing had not been communicated in advance of the decision. the organisation was therefore not in a position to make its views known before a decision was taken. in application of that judgment, the council adopted on 26 january 2009 a new list of persons and entities subject to the restrictive measures applied to terrorist organisations, and the people’s mojahedin organisation of iran was not included in that list. in that respect it is also important to note that, in an attachment of 23 october 2008, the european court of justice confirmed that the current procedure for listing terrorist organisations, as applied by the council in the case of sanctions that are not based on the united nations sanctions, respects the human rights of the persons and organisations concerned. this includes a procedure in which both sides are heard, the reasons for listing are given in advance and the person or entity in question can make its views known.
i should like to thank the commissioner. indeed, when i tabled this question on 17 december 2008, i was not to know that the good news would come from the foreign ministers’ meeting on 26 december. let me make it clear that i condemn terrorism in all its forms. but, at the same time, i must ask you whether it is acceptable that any council of ministers can consistently refuse to uphold the rule of law and can ignore the judgments of the court of first instance. finally, has the commission had any reaction – official or otherwise – from the present iranian regime since the european foreign ministers’ decision on 26 january 2009?
vice-president of the commission. − as i said, it was a council decision, and now the court of justice has shown what the deficiencies in this decision were. i assume the council and other european institutions will follow the court’s decisions. the court of justice said that the decision did not meet the substantive and procedural requirements, and the council followed that decision. this was discussed in gaerc, and the council decided not to keep this organisation on the new terrorist list adopted on 26 january 2009. but i have not been informed that we have had any reaction from the iranian government. on the contrary, colleagues say that there has been no reaction from the iranian government. i think that these procedures will also help to deal with all the nuances of listing organisations or people as terrorist organisations and create the possibility of giving counter-arguments. that seems to me to be a good step.
member of the commission. − this list is, of course, constantly being revised. if a member state suggests another approach, to remove an entity from the list or to add something, this is definitely a reason for revisiting this list. so this is a process which is dynamic: it is not fixed forever. there must be reasons for any new approach, but it can be revised if there are new reasons.
vice-president of the commission. − this has definitely become a matter for very intensive discussions which we could not have imagined a year ago. we could not have imagined discussing the potential radical changes in eu-iceland relations. the question is what impact an icelandic adoption of the euro – without iceland joining the eu – would have on eu-iceland relations. let me first stress that currently, as we speak, there is an intense debate ongoing in iceland on its relations with the eu, including the issue of european union membership. the commission is closely following this debate. the question of iceland applying for eu membership is entirely for the icelandic people to decide, and, should there be an application from iceland, the commission and the member states will act according to the established procedures as laid down in the treaty. i can assure you that we will handle the application as expediently as possible. as regards the specific question of iceland adopting the euro without joining the eu, of course iceland can unilaterally take such a decision but it should be clearly stated that it is the commission’s firm view, as well as a view of the european central bank, that unilateral ‘euro-isation’ is not a desirable political option for iceland. such a move would not have a positive impact on eu-iceland relations. iceland is a potential applicant for eu membership, thus iceland should pursue long-term monetary integration with the euro area only in the context of an eu membership perspective. this means that iceland should adopt the euro only after accession to the eu, after fulfilling the conditions set out by the treaty.
maidir leis an méid a luaigh tú, a choimisinéir, maidir le hiarratas ón íoslainn ar bhallraíocht san aontas eorpach, dá mba rud é go mbeadh an t-iarratas sin ann – agus an phráinn atá ag baint le cúrsaí eacnamaíochta anois – an mbeadh aon chóras tapaidh nó modh imeachta tapaidh ag an aontas eorpach chun a leithéid d’iarratas a chur i gcrích? conas a bheadh an taontas in ann déileáil lena leithéid d’iarratas go tapaidh, dá bhféadfaí é a dhéanamh?
vice-president of the commission. − i do not think there can be any kind of special treatment for iceland. in the past we held negotiations with countries which are now member states of the european union, and now we are holding negotiations with countries which would like to join the european union: the approach must be equal – it must be absolutely the same for everybody. the negotiations will be the same as with all other candidate countries. i do not see any possibility of having some kind of fast track for these negotiations. whether iceland is, perhaps, quite well prepared for membership is another issue. i do not know to what extent it has already adopted legislation similar to that of the european union, because this is a major issue. at any rate, i am sure that member states will be of the opinion that the position must be scrupulously fair and equal for all possible applicants. this is my opinion. there has never been any talk in the commission of any special treatment or fast track.
as vice-chair of the committee on fisheries, could i ask the commissioner to expand his thoughts on how membership of the eu might impact on the iceland-eu fisheries cooperation agreement?
vice-president of the commission. − these are both quite specific questions. again, i must underline the basic position that these negotiations must be the same as has been the case with other member states. but, of course, iceland has a population just under 300 000, so it is small and would not be a big burden on the european economy. i think that the basic idea is that it would make a contribution, so it is an economy that can overcome the current difficulties. i think that the member states will watch it very carefully and will ask it first to put its house in order. that is the first requirement, and then there can be the question of the contribution iceland can make to the union’s economy. concerning the fisheries agreement, again, this is a very specific question. however, i seem to remember that this issue was mentioned several times in previous enlargement negotiations. i think that the fisheries question will be the most complicated in negotiating with iceland, because it has quite big privileges which will definitely be contested by certain member states. i think this will be the key element in future negotiations. i do not know to what extent the existing agreement is applicable or suitable for future relations between iceland and other eu member states. but, being on that committee, you will know that this was a very hot topic in negotiations between norway and some member states. however, i think that, at least today, nobody can say exactly what promises or preoccupations there will be in this particular area.
member of the commission. - madam president, madam member of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, in the renewed social agenda adopted in july 2008, the commission committed itself to addressing the needs of an ageing population. the challenges of an ageing european society require a range of policy measures, from assessing the health and pension reforms needed to meet the needs of an ageing population with a view to sustaining public finances, to promoting research into how information technologies can contribute to improving the health and living conditions of older people. the commission is currently finalising a draft joint report on social protection and social inclusion for 2009, which will send a clear signal on the need to ensure the long-term adequacy and sustainability of pensions, to make healthcare delivery more efficient and to reduce health inequalities. it will also address the challenges faced by some member states in the areas of pensions and health and long-term care, as described in the accompanying country-specific overviews. the decision-making on the policy to support informal carers is a matter for the member states. however, the commission can act as a catalyst for change to support member states' efforts. in the framework of the open method of coordination on social protection and social inclusion, the commission seeks to encourage member states to develop policies that support family carers. in the 2008 joint report, the commission and the member states underline the importance of informal carers' policies, which include a set of measures such as education and counselling opportunities, respite care, leave for caring purposes and appropriate social protection for informal carers. in addition, the commission supports the development of these policies at national level by contributing to studies and conferences on the subject.
thank you for your answer, commissioner. you talk about the needs of an ageing population. certainly care-giving is one of those. you mentioned pension scheme reforms, and i am pleased to hear that, because people who give up work, very often to care for children or older persons, do not pay adequate social security contributions, and it is often carers who do not have adequate pensions. you mentioned that family carers come within the remit of the member states, and i agree with that. you also mentioned in reply to me that the european social fund could be used for training. i would like you perhaps to elaborate more on that. finally, carers work: they are unpaid workers. i am interested in your views on how you regard carers from that perspective under the heading of employment and social affairs, which is your own dg.
author. − i would like to thank the commissioner for his very comprehensive answer. in talking about one of the vulnerable groups, considering the economic situation that we now face and the increase in unemployment levels, obviously one vulnerable group is young people. very often, in economically difficult times, young people unfortunately get into drug abuse. is it possible that the european social fund could be used in a targeted way to try and help young people, considering the problems that this causes not only to themselves as individuals, but to their families and to their communities, and given the very severe effect it can have on communities, adding to poverty and difficulties? i was wondering whether it would be possible to target this vulnerable group under that fund
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, in every member state of the eu there are groupings of people who are seen as different because of characteristics like ethnicity, language, how they dress, the music they play and how they worship. when the people in that country are committed to respect for the innate dignity of every human person, these differences are seen as enriching, and people are valued. in fact, when the dignity of the human person is valued, we do not view minorities in a negative way at all. however, in many countries this respect is weak or non-existent. this leads to discrimination in which minorities are abused and relegated to the poorest of circumstances. we insist in the copenhagen agreement that a country wishing to join the eu must have at least a minimally acceptable level of respect for everyone within its borders. this principle falls down when we ignore these criteria and allow membership to countries where people are being marginalised and mistreated. in ireland, for instance, many children and adults with disabilities were institutionalised in the worst of circumstances at the time of our accession and for years after our membership. today, in spite of the introduction of the copenhagen criteria, there exist similar terrible circumstances for vulnerable minorities in countries which have recently joined the eu or which plan to. the copenhagen criteria were clearly ignored in those cases, and the treatment of minorities was not considered an obstacle to membership. this negates the purpose of the agreement. if a country, in order to join the eu, must fulfil the copenhagen criteria in respect of the treatment of its people, it should be possible to suspend membership when it does not.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, the spanish example was mentioned earlier, but it was the spanish state that solved the problem. the commission is aware of the particular situation of persons belonging to the russian-speaking minority in latvia. significant efforts have been made in the framework of the pre-accession strategy to promote the naturalisation and integration of these persons, in line with the recommendations of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and the council of europe. the commission has repeatedly stressed that all parties concerned, including the minority itself, must contribute to this complex process and to the development of solutions. as regards the specific issue of participation in local elections by persons who do not have latvian nationality, the treaty establishing the european community guarantees only the participation of citizens of the union in european and municipal elections in the member state in which they reside without having that nationality. the participation in elections of persons who, not being nationals of a country of the union, are not citizens of the union is not a matter covered by community law. the commission cannot therefore intervene in latvia on the issue of the participation of these persons in local elections. it is up to the member states to decide on this matter. i fully understand the situation of the co-authors of the oral question. unfortunately, i cannot give them any other answer, and it is up to the latvian national community to solve this problem, which the union is not legally able to solve.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, commissioner barrot’s response was very disappointing. i would have expected a more positive response from him, despite the legal constraints that he operates under. i thought he might have said that he would do what he could to encourage change in latvia in the spirit of the european union’s principle of diversity. i am from ireland; i speak english. english is my mother tongue, but i am not english: i am irish. the reality is that the european union is made up of many states. virtually all our states have minorities and majorities who have histories relating to being part of an empire or to being an empire or a colony. we have had to deal with that. if i moved to latvia and lived and worked there for a while, i would be able to vote in local elections. however, there are hundreds of thousands of people in latvia who were born in latvia but who cannot vote in local elections. that is an injustice, but – i would tell mr pīks – it is also self-destructive because, in order to overcome the difficulties and the fears, we must make all of our people welcome in our states. we must encourage them to participate politically. enabling people to vote in local elections would enable them to feel part of their community and part of the management of their own local communities and would help, as i say, to overcome barriers. one of the largest migrant communities in ireland is british. they can all vote in local elections in ireland. they cannot all vote in national elections because they do not all hold irish citizenship, but they all vote in irish local elections and make a very important contribution to irish political life. so i would appeal to those in this house who are from latvia – and indeed from any other of our member states that have minority, or even majority, problems – to bear in mind that, in order to overcome these difficulties and to overcome fear, we have to make people welcome and incorporate them into our political process, not keep them out of it.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would also like to compliment mr florenz on his effort and commitment in producing this report and, of course, on his ability to listen to, and understand, the many varied and different opinions. as legislators, it is paramount, in the midst of a massive economic downturn, that we work on results for green energy technology. we can become world leaders in our diverse renewable energy fields, which should create a tight, effective and coordinated strategy – including governments, ngos, academia, business, forward-thinkers – seeking not to talk but to solve. we need to reduce bureaucracy and support smes and technology developers. the market is there. the regulatory framework is clear. we have set the targets for renewable energy. although funding is scarce, it is crucial to technology development and to maintaining expertise. banks and funders will have to take risks on green technology start-ups. there will be long-term gain if we step up to the mark. the jobs and wealth will flow. if, on the other hand, we dilly-dally during this precious time, we will lose out and other countries will be only too ready to fill the gap. for example, ireland could become to ocean wave technology what finland is to mobile phone technology. we have the undisputed potential due to weather and location in the atlantic. we have the technology patented. we have the expertise in situ and we have the legal target framework. the market is clear, so it is a magnificent opportunity for job creation, electricity price reduction, energy security and carbon emission reduction, not to mention patent revenues. we now need to get behind our companies, who have been working for over a decade to come to this point. they have taken the risks, and we need to support them through increased funding. delays at this point would be detrimental. green technology is our future. we have the opportunity now, so let us use it.
madam president, the time for talking is over and we know what needs to be done – at least those of us who accept the peer-reviewed science on the causes of the unprecedented rate of global warming and its critical impacts on all aspects of biodiversity, particularly on the poorest and most populated regions of our world. to my climate-sceptic friends, could i say that the precautionary principle should be considered. i would recommend it to them. i should like to thank karl-heinz florenz for his report. it adds to our sum of knowledge, representing, as it does, the horizontal views across a range of committees in this house, with one serious omission – that of the committee on fisheries, given the critical importance of the increasing acidification of our seas and oceans from increased co2 emissions in the atmosphere. i have one question for commissioner dimas: following our first-reading agreement on my report on the revised eu-ets six weeks ago, could the commissioner put on record today exactly what work programme is in train for preparing the comitology decisions, particularly the timing and involvement of this parliament and the stakeholders? in conclusion, our target must be at least a 30% decrease in co2 emissions by 2020 as part of a post-2012 global agreement, with at least an 80% decrease by 2050 – and that is the more important target. the result of the next eight months of climate diplomacy will write the text of our history books for generations and, as political leaders in our own communities and collectively, we cannot renege on our responsibility. commissioner, our climate and energy package must be accompanied by realistic funds, and we look to the summit in march – in six weeks’ time – for our 27 leaders of state and government to be on-message and not to let us, the citizens of the eu, and the poorest and most climate-vulnerable communities in our world, down.
madam president, we have here an ambitious plan. a plan to do nothing less than save the world: a big job at the best of times. when the draft report was first presented by mr florenz to the committee, its first call to action was that we bear in mind that we humans are protectors of creation. this simple statement was the first to be attacked and removed. what was so objectionable to the committee? the word ‘creation’. why? because creation has a creator. it does not matter to me how the universe was created, or in what time frame. what is important to me is that there is a god and that we are stewards who must, as amendment 22 puts it, safeguard creation. so, as i say, we are here today setting ourselves the task of saving the world, setting a course of action that will require the cooperation and sacrifice of everyone everywhere, a task which, to be successful, will also require the cooperation of the winds, water and the sun. but, even knowing this, we are at the same time making it clear, as we have done in the past with other great challenges, that we think we can take on the enormous and urgent challenges that face mankind without help from above. well, all i can say is: good luck with it, and may god spare us.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. i shall be very specific in relation to agriculture and to two paragraphs in the report which i think are not necessary. the report would perhaps be better without them. they are very specific in relation to meat consumption and i do not think there is a place for these paragraphs in the report. the following paragraph on feed rations ignores the reality of research that has been going on for a long number of years in many member states seeking to do exactly what it says in this paragraph, which is therefore out of date with reality. one of the areas that i think needs to be enhanced is the communication of how farmers and those who use the land can farm in a way that is more ‘climatically friendly’. i think there has been a failure of the researchers to work with the farmers, and we need more effort in relation to extension services to get the message across, to encourage and not to coerce.
madam president, several paragraphs and sections of the florenz report, especially paragraph 190, relate to agriculture’s contribution to climate change. while low or conservation tillage is an option in most eu states and has economic as well as climate change benefits – and deserves far more support, in my view – the agricultural debate and research concentrate largely on the methane and nitrous oxide contributions of ruminant livestock. while progress is being made, i do not support member states having to meet their non-trading sectors’ targets for emissions reductions by the compulsory reduction of europe’s cattle herds. let us not forget that what we do not produce here in europe we will import. one kilo of beef produced in brazil results in six times the carbon dioxide emissions of one kilo of beef produced in ireland.
madam president, i supported this report mainly because the paragraphs i had some concern about were either deleted or modified in a way which i felt was appropriate. they related specifically to agriculture livestock production. i would reinforce the point that the european union has considerably reduced its livestock production due to cap reforms in the past, that we are now net importers of beef and that beef is produced elsewhere with the climate change concerns attached to it. this really shows us how important it is that there is global consensus on it and that, while europe might lead the way, we must try to insist that others follow us because we will only do ourselves harm if we are seen to be the only ones stepping up to the mark. finally i support the idea in this report of a specific year targeted towards providing information and dealing with the issue of climate change in a way which brings people along with us. there is already good work being done in this area.
in writing. − i was happy to support the final report from the temporary committee on climate change. today’s report from mr florenz is based on scientific principles and maps out the challenges that face our society in various fields like transport, land-use, energy and waste management. the current economic crisis should not be used as an excuse to row back on our climate commitments. some less progressive forces have tried to use the economic downturn as an excuse to renege on the necessary climate commitments. this should be seen not only as the cynical ploy it is, coming from forces not in the least bit interested in facing up to the realities of climate change, but also as short-sighted in the extreme. i specifically reject the notion that nuclear power has any role to play in the green economy of tomorrow and beyond. ireland must remain a nuclear-free island. clean and renewable energy sources should be the basis of our energy supply, not the dangerous short-term folly of nuclear power.
in writing. − i support this resolution which welcomes president obama's closure of the detention facilities at guantánamo bay and his other important and related executive orders; recalls that the united states must bear the primary responsibility for the closure of these facilities including the future of its inmates; however, calls on eu member states, in the spirit of providing fair and humane treatment for all and reinforcing international law, to respond positively to any request from the united states to aid the resettlement of guantánamo bay inmates within the european union. however, i am deeply concerned by reports that the obama administration is to retain the practice of rendition.
mr president, i think it is very important – and i agree with many of the previous speakers – that eu citizens need to feel secure, and i think it is a priority that we look after the security of our citizens when they are outside the european union, especially in crisis situations such as we had in mumbai. i think it is absolutely essential for european citizens to be able to get information in any crisis situation, whether it be a general crisis or a crisis for themselves, and there needs to be an awful lot more clarity in the situation. mumbai is a good example of how it does not work. i welcome the idea of a lead state which was announced recently. i think that is very important, but it is very clear at the moment that the system is not working. i think it should be seen as a priority by all of us to get the system working because, as somebody else said, you really would feel far more european if a member state embassy looked after you if you were in trouble when you were in the far east or in south america or somewhere outside the european union, and i think that that feeling of europeaness is very important. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, when we become members of parliament, we are issued with a laissez-passer – as are a lot of other people who work for the institutions of the union. i wonder whether the presidency and the council understand the worthlessness of this document in member states. i had an extremely difficult situation in the netherlands, when travelling back on the business of this parliament from africa. i know of another member – a british member – who had difficulty in dublin. we really need to bring home to our own member states that this is a travel document of parliament, the commission and of the union and should be fully respected. those dealing with travel arrangements at airports and ports should be fully briefed as to the worthiness of this document. i would ask you to take that up with each of the member states and ensure that it is implemented, because that sort of protection should extend to officials and to members of parliament travelling on the business of parliament.
mr president, as an mep i have had several occasions to contact embassies and consuls because someone was injured, lost, robbed or abducted, or because, tragically, someone died. i am sure this has been the experience of many other meps. i am happy to say that, where i was able to deal with an irish embassy, the work and the cooperation have been excellent. but my own country was not represented in every country, and we had to rely on the embassies of other european countries. i would just say from experience that, without going into stories, i would like to see more coordination, more help between embassies in the bigger countries where they do have embassies and consuls in almost every country, so as to help all other member state embassies with their constituents.
i would like to ask the minister if his attention has been drawn to the protectionist elements in the plan for recovery in the united states, particularly as put forward by members of the house of representatives and the senate, and if he has, on behalf of the council, communicated the concern of the european union to the american administration about this. this does not augur well for a new doha round. would he ensure that our concerns are communicated before the necessary legislation passes through the us congress?
has there been any discussion in council about trying to get member states to provide financial incentives for increasing energy efficiency, in particular for elderly people? on the one hand it would increase energy efficiency, and on the other hand it would provide employment.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his very comprehensive reply. in fact this question was tabled before the russia-ukraine dispute arose. i had a feeling that it might arise at the time it did. i would like to ask him this: under lisbon, we were talking about a common energy policy; maybe he could outline, in his capacity as president-in-office, his opinions on the improved tool kit which lisbon provides to address these challenges in the future and the advantages of adopting the whole lisbon approach and treaty.
i would like to thank the president-in-office. i do not mean to make him paranoid with my question. it was tabled, after all, last december. i am anti-smoking, not anti-smokers. we all agree they need all the help they can get: nicotine replacement therapies etc. but we must recognise the damage that passive smoking does to those who do not enjoy smoking, so please do not feel personally under the spotlight here. could you guarantee me then that, before the end of the czech presidency, you will have ratified the framework convention – yes or no? it would be extremely important if you could give me guarantees on that. after all, cigarettes are the only legal product on our shop shelves that, if used by consumers according to instructions, kills one in two of the consumers. they are amazing really.
thank you, president-in-office, for your honesty. you quoted your mother – well, as a mother, can i urge you to stop smoking, while sympathising with your plight in the building? if you were in ireland, you would be completely out in the cold. my question is: have you ever considered giving some leadership and quitting the bad habit and encouraging your senators to follow suit?
madam president, can i just add my sympathy, as others have this evening, to the families who are deeply and sadly affected by this storm, and offer my support for calls for greater flexibility in the solidarity fund. but there is a wider question as well to which i would draw your attention. it is not as grave as what you are discussing here but in all member states there are occasional natural disasters and i think of counties that i represent – offaly, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/county_laois" \o "county laois" and louth – where there was very unnatural and unseasonal flooding. a small number of families were deeply affected by it, not enough for anyone to notice, but they will suffer serious consequences. perhaps we need to look at funding under rural development or the common agricultural policy and establish a hardship fund to look after cases like this which are there and which need assistance.
madam president, the commissioner mentioned several disasters in her opening speech, and among them the heatwave in france several years ago which claimed the lives of between 12 000 and 14 000 people. just to set the record straight on this, it was not a storm or a flash flood, or anything like the other natural disasters. that heatwave lasted five to six weeks, and the deaths came over a period of five to six weeks. almost all of the people who died were either disabled or elderly and in nursing homes or residential care, or in respite while their families were on holiday. the french government at no time recalled the families or recalled staff from their holidays, nor did it call in the army or any other rescue services. they just allowed people to die, week after week. i have spoken to many people in france about this incident, as i am involved in the commission-funded project on rescuing people with disabilities in disasters. it was a scandal, and a scandal that no one has put their finger on or identified. i would ask the commission to investigate that heatwave, investigate the level of deaths and realise that france did nothing about it, and yet when the autumn came and all those people had been buried, there were 14 000 fewer people on their social services register.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is fully aware of the high risks of polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) for human health and the environment. incidents like those in belgium in 1999, and in ireland last year, have demonstrated once again that even small amounts of pcbs can cause severe contamination of the feed and food chain. over the past three decades, the eu has established legislation to decrease the release of pcbs and dioxins into the environment, with the objective of reducing human exposure and protecting human health and the environment. nevertheless, as equipment containing pcbs typically has a long life expectancy, even after the ban of pcbs in 1985 significant amounts remain in use and are one source of possible human exposure. in particular, the directive on the disposal of pcbs, directive 96/59/ec of september 1996, provides the appropriate tools to ensure the disposal of equipment and waste containing pcbs as soon as possible, and for large equipment before the end of 2010. however, there remain significant gaps in the full implementation of this legislation. the commission had to launch infringement procedures against most member states concerning the obligation to establish inventories of large pcb-containing equipment and pcb disposal plans. as a result of these infringement procedures, the overall situation has improved. currently only two such cases are still open, but are about to be closed. all member states have communicated their plans for the decontamination and/or disposal of inventoried equipment and the pcbs contained therein, and for the collection and subsequent disposal of equipment containing less than five cubic decimetres of pcbs (as required by article 11 of the directive). nevertheless, additional efforts are needed. in order to ensure the efficiency of pcb disposal plans, member states have to further improve the implementation of existing legislation on pcbs and of european waste legislation in general. the commission is placing increasing importance on the proper implementation of eu waste legislation, and is actively supporting member states in enhancing the implementation of their national waste legislation. the feed hygiene regulation no 183/2005 lays down minimum requirements for feed hygiene which apply from the primary production of feed (at farm level), through the production, the processing and the distribution, to the point of feeding the animals. feed business operators (fbos) should put in place, implement and maintain procedures based on the haccp principles. this means the identification of critical control points and the identification of, inter alia, possible chemical contamination when using the direct heating process to dry feed materials. the responsibility for compliance with these requirements rests with feed business operators, although the adequacy of the measures put in place by fbos must be verified by the competent authorities of the member states. in most cases, this must be done by an on-the-spot visit. furthermore, general principles on the organisation of official controls laid down in the official control on food and feed regulation require member states to ensure that controls are carried out regularly, on a risk basis and with appropriate frequency. these official controls must include controls on feed businesses. the role of the commission is set out in article 45 of the official control on food and feed regulation (ec) no 882/2004. commission experts carry out audits of the competent authorities in the member states to verify that controls take place in compliance with community law. a general audit of ireland under this article was carried out across a number of sectors in 2008 and a report will be available shortly. the list of establishments to be audited is jointly decided between the national competent authorities and the auditors from the fvo. the plant mentioned in the question was not one of those subjected to inspection in the 2008 general audit. in the irish dioxin contamination incident, the use of contaminated breadcrumbs as animal feed was identified to be the source of contamination. the breadcrumbs were produced from bakery waste (out-of-date biscuits), which are dried using a direct heating process. in a direct heating process the combustion gases are in direct contact with the feed material to be dried. the fuel used was apparently contaminated with pcb transformer oil. the relevant responsibilities of the different actors, from the breadcrumb producer to the fuel supplier, and so on, will be identified by an ongoing legal investigation. i would like to stress the major importance of a comprehensive approach to be adopted for the risk classification, which includes possible risks related not only to the nature of the incoming material, in this case breadcrumbs, but also to the process itself.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commission for that very detailed statement on this subject. i think the reason we are debating this tonight is because we want to learn lessons and ensure that it does not happen again. the difficulty is that, back in 1999, when we discovered a problem in belgium, we thought then that we had tightened up our rules sufficiently so that there would not be another incident. however, we are where we are now, and we know the consequences of the system’s failure, in terms not just of money – although that is hugely significant for the european union, for the irish exchequer, for taxpayers – but of the loss of confidence among consumers, and the damage done generally to the irish food producing sector in terms of markets. i am happy that we have made progress now and are restoring our name on the international marketplace, but i am also acutely aware that farmers throughout the european union also face problems because of the irish difficulty. that is why i think that tonight’s debate is not just about ireland. in my view, it is clear from your statement that this problem that occurred in ireland has the potential to happen in other member states. so that is, i suppose, where the starting point for this debate must be. we know that this oil should not have got into the animal feed chain. what we are trying to find out is how that happened and – as you rightly say – that is the subject of a police investigation with a cross-border dimension to it. we will, i hope, find out the exact trail of events so that we can avoid a similar occurrence. but it also raises another question, which you have alluded to, and that is how we handle waste or surplus food. recycling is now ‘the thing to do’. everybody is in favour of it because we all want to be environmentally friendly and sustainable. so there are two issues here: first of all the issue of recycling of oils – to which you have alluded – and i think that needs more careful attention in relation not only to pcbs but more generally to the collection, distribution, handling etc. of waste oils, though obviously there is a particular worry about pcbs. regarding surplus food – or waste food as it is sometimes called – my own view is that it is appropriate that we use this product in the animal feed chain, but i want to say very clearly that, if we cannot guarantee its safety and how it is processed and handled, then i am afraid we may need to look at banning this in the food and feed chain. i would not like to see that happen, but then again i would not like to see happen again what occurred in ireland and the subsequent consequences of it. what we want is for this surplus or waste food to be used because it is good quality, not because the animal feed chain is a dumping ground for it – i think that is an important point. we need to talk, too, very openly about the whole issue of the mixing of animal feeds. farmers like to buy ingredients and to mix their own rations, and generally larger farmers do this. that is appropriate if we have tight controls on it. i understand that there are regular checks carried out, but in this case there were clearly some gaps in the checks on that market. indeed, those farmers who were caught and suffered consequences because they used this product were saying to me, ‘why was somebody not coming and checking what was coming into our yards?’ on the issue of regulation, i believe that there are very tight controls on licensed animal feed operators – the compound feed industry of the european union – and they came in because of practices in the past which we needed to tighten up on. i have a sense that, in member states, we regulate the compliant particularly tightly and we do not keep a lookout for the potentially non-compliant. we do not think outside the box. there is perhaps a tendency, once the paper trail is correct and the boxes are ticked, to put it all to bed and not look underneath the surface. i think we need to look again at regulation. we are looking at it again in the financial sector, and we also need to look at it in the food sector. i also think that, at farm level, inspectors are sometimes regarded as the devil incarnate coming on to farms. why do farmers not welcome inspectors in, seeing them as protectors of their businesses? i think we need to change the mindset now in the entire food chain, based on this experience. i welcome very particularly the announcement of the irish farmers’ association that they are setting up a food taskforce. it is high time that farmers took some control of the food chain that they are the first step on. lastly, the issue of low-cost ingredients is not one for now, but the pressure on producers to produce ever more cheaply is part of this issue and needs to be addressed.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i have a number of points to make in relation to this issue and of course i would disagree slightly with mrs mcguinness in relation to ‘this is not about ireland’. of course, this is about ireland. this is the most recent scandal in relation to food risks. the protection of human health has to be the primary concern on this issue and what we are talking about here is the implementation of a 1996 directive. indeed, unfortunately, ireland was one of those member states which had to be forced by threats of legal action to actually implement this directive, five years later, in 2001. of course, the process of implementing it is still, it would appear, under way, and the inspection procedures for ensuring that it is being complied with appear to be quite weak. from what i understand from what i have read about it, one of the surprising things is the lack of information about what precisely occurred in this particular instance with regard to the contamination of pork. it would appear that the factory concerned which produced the feed had not inspected for some time. i also have to say – and i am sure the government would be surprised to hear me say this – i do believe they took the right decision in clamping down immediately on the distribution of pork and indeed the withdrawal of pork from the shop shelves. of course it hurt many innocent and compliant producers and butchers and so on: 90% or more of products were not contaminated at all. the factory concerned was only supplying something like 10 outlets, so it was a big move to make, but it was the right move to make. the most important thing is that we try and ensure that the public and the consumer can be certain that the food they are buying in the supermarkets, in their local corner shops is safe to eat. if we do not take immediate and drastic steps to guarantee that, then i think we are failing in our responsibility. i have two questions for the commissioner. one is, as i say, we are talking about the implementation here of the 1996 directive. is there not an argument now for that directive to be reviewed? are the standards that were set in that directive not now adequate or inadequate? should we not be looking more seriously at taking these pcbs out of circulation much more quickly than is envisaged, particularly because of the late way in which many member states actually implemented the directive? my other question relates to the management plan which the environmental protection agency in ireland is belatedly putting in place in 2008 where it talks about the code of practice, which the plan also includes, for the in-use management of pcbs and pcb containing equipment. what i want to know is whether a code of practice is in fact compliant with the directive. should we not be looking for a more stringent application of the rules in terms of the management of pcbs? i am not in favour of charging everybody who breaks a rule here and there, but i do think that, where food safety is concerned, there should be criminal sanctions for those who carelessly abuse their position.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, the irish pigmeat industry plays a vital role in the irish agri-foods sector. that industry is valued at approximately eur 1 billion and is responsible, directly and indirectly, for the employment of 10 000 people. against the backdrop of the current economic climate and the rising cost of food prices, it is critical that we do our utmost in ireland to defend the irish pigmeat sector, which operates to the highest european union and international standards. the detection of dioxins above the minimum threshold in a sample of pork fat under the national residue monitoring programme enabled the source of the contamination to be quickly traced to an individual feed manufacturing plant. while any contamination of our food is always regrettable, what this incident shows is the very high level of food safety controls which the irish authorities have in place to guarantee the integrity of the food chain. in other words, those controls worked. i would therefore like to acknowledge the competence and swiftness of the action taken by the irish government and the department of agriculture regarding the decision taken for a total product recall. this was very well received by european and international markets, and indeed by the european commission. it highlighted how seriously we as a country view food safety matters, and helped maintain our reputation at home and abroad as a quality food-producing nation. irish consumers continued to buy pork as it became available on the supermarket shelves, and there was an early resumption in trading in most european and international markets. obviously, additional work needs to be carried out to resume full trading, such as enhanced marketing campaigns etc. i would like to commend the oireachtas agriculture committee for its comprehensive investigation of the dioxin incident, which involved a series of hearings that involved government departments, state agencies and representatives of the pork industry. i am glad also that the department of agriculture is carrying out a further investigation, under the chairmanship of a very well-known individual in european circles, professor patrick wall.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, my colleague mentioned the murky channels by which pcbs came into the food chain in ireland. i think maybe it is worse, sometimes looking back at the history of pcbs. polychlorinated biphenyls are almost 100 years old. they are man-made and from the very beginning it was obvious they were very dangerous. they were used for many years in capacitors, hydraulic fuels, wood floor finishes: clearly not something we want in the food chain. but almost from the early 1900s until 1966, when a swedish scientist actually established their danger, people looked the other way and allowed them to be used, even though numerous industrial accidents happened over and over and over again. but even once the science was in place it was really not until the 1970s – 1972 –before pcbs in public areas were banned; even then, they were still allowed to be used and their use was not fully banned until 2000. so there are a lot of pcbs out there and they were left out there almost 100 years after we knew there was a problem. so, despite the commission’s directive of 1996 which required the disposal of pcbs, we find them coming up again and again, in particular in belgium and in ireland recently. but i have found that one thing really confused people in ireland. i remember visiting a butcher around that time and he just could not understand. he said, we have put into place so much traceability. we can know exactly where this egg comes from, what day it was laid and if we really want to delve a little bit further we can find out exactly what farm etc. and yet, even after we knew the source of the pcbs, this butcher, who sources all his own pork, who had all the code numbers etc. was still being forced to throw away and destroy pork. i do not understand how that happened, because we have really worked so hard on the committee on the environment; you have worked so hard to achieve traceability, and yet when the chips were down, those systems were not used. maybe they were used to find the farms, but they were not used to clear the reputations of the innocent and this cost people an awful lot – and it cost my country an awful lot, for it was not these particular supply chains, it was the whole country that was blackened. and there is confusion about other things. we are talking today about pcbs and dioxins and rightly so, but are we going to spend 100 years before we realise the connection between dioxins and incineration? this is something that i am also constantly trying to do, namely to keep dioxins from incineration out of the food chain.
madam president, one source of human exposure to pcbs is through the food chain, as the commissioner says. however, open fires and cigarette smoke are far greater sources to a far greater number of people. let us be proportional and let us keep the hysteria out of this debate, and more light and less heat on it. minimum requirements for feed hygiene are indeed very important and must be rigorously enforced, but they must also be accompanied by full identification and traceability for all meat products – not just beef but also poultry, pigmeat and sheepmeat. i have put down amendments to current legislation to that effect, and we will be discussing these in this house shortly. the pig feed concerned was indeed contaminated by breadcrumbs because, inadvertently, millstream recycling used fuel to dry the breadcrumbs after buying this in good faith from a company it had dealt with for years and with which it had had no previous problems. there is an ongoing police investigation and the company concerned is cooperating fully with them. i would like to refute completely mr allister’s claim that the company showed wanton disregard. that will be proven not to be the case, so let us be careful what we say here. the biggest problem was that we had to have 100% withdrawal of all pigmeat products, and their destruction, albeit only in the short term. the livelihoods of many irish farmers, and indeed the reputation of irish food products abroad suffered because we had to have such a disproportionate response, when only six to seven per cent of our pig farms were contaminated, since the irish system of identification and traceability failed at the point of the slaughter-house. all pigs are supposed to be eartagged in ireland, or slap marked, but somehow, at the slaughter-house level, we could not differentiate those pigs that had had the contaminated feed from the vast majority of other pigs that had not. we need to look at that issue. the commission needs to look at the whole role of identification and traceability, and above all let us wait for the police investigation, which i think will surprise people. the companies concerned are extremely sorry, and have said so publicly, for the damage caused to the food chain and ireland’s reputation, and indeed for the economic damage caused to the many farmers who have purchased their excellent feed products up to this point. they are now back in business and again producing, i might say, an excellent feed ration for farmers to mix. this has been an appalling episode. no one would have wished it to happen.
madam president, i have tried not to be judge and jury on this irish case, because that is not why we are here tonight, but i would like to ask the commissioner three questions: what volume of pcbs is still in circulation; can you guarantee that none of these will contaminate the food chain in the next 23 months, when they are still in the process of disposal; and would the commission present a report on the status of implementation of the feed hygiene regulation, which this house would like to hear? i would also like to point out to jim allister that this is a cross-border issue. the contamination, as we understand it, came – as jim nicholson rightly pointed out – from across the border. that is why i do not agree with proinsias. this is a european issue because it has a cross-border dimension. what happened in ireland could happen in any member state because there are – as i understand it – thousands of tonnes of pcbs in circulation. perhaps the commissioner could clarify that point.
madam president, mr graefe zu baringdorf’s allegation of deliberate mixing of this contaminate into feed is contemptible and unworthy of any professional politician. let us allow the due process of the legal investigation to take its course. the company concerned, millstream recycling, are cooperating fully. they have a full paper trail to prove they bought this oil from a licensed company in dublin that supplies oil. they bought it as a recycled light fuel oil which would have been the correct oil to use in this particular drying process. they were sold it by a licensed company and, as far as they were concerned, it was recycled light fuel oil they bought; they accept, however, that they were given transformer oil which caused the dioxins. there is a legal and police investigation. let us let due process take its course and stop these allegations flying because this is a very serious issue, which is not helped by hysterical and over-the-top reaction.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report, which is a very technical one and answers the court’s question about protecting the rights of farmers and the rights of those who produce the animal feed they purchase. i support the idea that intellectual property rights are worth protecting. we cannot have formulations being copied by operators who come in and out of the marketplace, so the report is successful from that point of view. the issue of rogue operators has been brought up in the debate here this morning. the truth is that we will only keep a check on the industry if we check those who do not comply. that can only be done by regular monitoring, inspection and control at every point along the way. we debated that very vigorously last night in this parliament and i was glad to hear that improvements will be made. lastly, a bigger point on the volatility of commodity prices. the agriculture commissioner is joining us. this is a big issue for the feed industry and for farmers, and it is one that we need to address.
mr president, i should like to make two quick points. firstly, yes, consumers and farmers depend on clear and transparent labelling, and i support the rapporteur’s amendment to allow the manufacturer to refuse to disclose information if he or she is able to prove that intellectual property rights could be infringed on any ingredient which constitutes less than two per cent of the ration. we urgently need more investment in research, especially into ruminant feed to reduce the methane and nitrous oxide emissions. secondly, is it not long past the time for reference points for action or rpas for dealing with the adventitious presence of minuscule levels of gmo in feed, rather than the present zero-tolerance regime, which results in criminally disproportionate waste of feed and cereal shipments and criminally disproportionate sanctions? i refer, of course, to the presence of previously authorised gms by the european food safety authority (efsa), so that they are fully risk-assessed by definition, or perhaps a gmo that is fully authorised in another jurisdiction.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte mhór roimh thuarascáil an uasail dumitriu agus ba mhaith comhghairdeachas a dhéanamh leis as ucht a chuid oibre. tugann an buiséad seo deis iontach do na ballstáit margaí a aimsiú ní hamháin san eoraip féin ach taobh amuigh. ba mhaith liom, ag teacht as éirinn, a rá go dtugann sé an-chabhair dúinne in éirinn, an táirge bia folláin úr atá againn a dhíol ar mhargaí an domhain go háirithe san áise. ach cosúil le mo chomhghleacaithe ba mhaith liom a rá go bhfeicim anseo deis níos fearr simpliú a dhéanamh ar na rialacha a bhaineann leis an mbuiséad seo sa chaoi gur féidir teacht ar an soláthar airgid le haghaidh margáintíochta níos éasca ná mar atá sé faoi láthair agus, ar ndóigh, ní mór freisin an buiséad a mhéadú mar atá ráite. tá sé seo fíorthábhachtach ní hamháin do na ballstát ach don eoraip trí chéile.
mr president, the major food manufacturers around the globe spend billions promoting themselves – maybe using eu-produced food, but concentrating not on its origin but on their own brands. we have celebrity tv chefs promoting their particular version of food production, with access to the airwaves and budgets of millions. and here we are talking about a relatively small amount of money to promote all of europe’s food, both throughout the world and internally. it is a big ask! it is a very good report, which i fully support, and i endorse the comments of our commissioner here to day. i am particularly interested in the idea that we need to promote outside our borders, and i would agree wholeheartedly with that, but we also have to be realistic about how we are going to compete, and whether we are competitive on a global market. perhaps the commissioner would take that up in her responses. the question of our standards has got to be acknowledged and recognised. is that being acknowledged and recognised at the wto?
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the commission for the recent approval of 50% funding for an bord bia’s proposal on information provision for meat in asia over the next three years, which is much appreciated. while i am very supportive of this proposal, could i be allowed two commercial caveats. firstly, some countries, such as ireland, may be unlikely to draw up information programmes if the trade does not show an interest. secondly, while the proposed increase in funding to 60%, and to 70% for fruit and vegetable promotion, would be very welcome in the current economic environment, realistically the incentive to expand generic promotion may be limited as contributors and non-contributors alike will benefit from the programmes. i would like to thank the rapporteur.
mr president, i just wish to say that i supported this report. i was interested to hear during the debate that the commission confirmed 70% funding cofinancing for the school fruit scheme, which will be hugely significant in the uptake of this scheme, and i clearly welcome it.
mr president, thank you again for giving me the floor. i supported this report because it makes good sense that we should have a regulation that protects farmers’ interests and the interests of those who produce their feed. i think what we now need is to communicate with the stakeholders what it means for them, as either feed operators or as users of animal feed, because it will not be enough that we have this regulation in place until there is good communication between all stakeholders.
mr president, china is a very important trade partner for the european union, as is taiwan. i wanted to draw attention to a very positive development in the committee on foreign affairs. they voted an opinion which calls on china to respect women and children’s rights by ending forced abortion and forced sterilisation. it also calls on china to end political persecution and other human rights abuses. i think this raises the issue that we cannot separate trade from other factors. i made this point in the gaza speech about our trade with israel – if we do not bring up issues of human rights abuse, we are in danger of having our money used to encourage human rights abuse. so i want to congratulate the committee on foreign affairs for recognising the coercive nature of china’s one-child policy and bringing this into the trade issue.
in writing. − this proposal aims to extend the reach of article 9 of regulation (ec) no 3/2008 which enables member states, in the absence of proposals from industry, to propose information and promotion campaigns in third country territories without the requirement of funding from industry. the present requirements necessitate a 20% industry contribution to funding when the eu provides a maximum of 50% of funding. this latitude would provide member states with the ability to self-start promotional and information campaigns without the financial participation of industry. the potential for this proposal for impetus in the fruit and vegetable industry is considerable and also desirable given the current economic conditions. i am accordingly pleased to support this proposal.
in writing. − the status of refugee is that accorded to a person who, owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group, or political opinion, is outside the country of their nationality, and is unable to or, due to such fear, is unwilling to avail him- or herself of the protection of their own state. this is a 1951 un definition. this review of the 2003 ‘reception conditions directive’ which laid down minimum standards for the reception of people seeking asylum in europe, aims to enforce the implementation of these rules, such as access to information, education, health care, and standards regarding reception facilities. the directive allows member states to determine the length of time during which an applicant cannot have access to the labour market. ireland unfortunately did not opt into the 2003 directive, and operates a ‘direct provision’ system, providing accommodation, food and eur 19.10 per week per adult, designed to discourage asylum seekers from choosing ireland, and keeping them out of the official labour market for the entirety of their application procedure. legislation currently before the oireachtas – the immigration, residence and protection bill 2008 – seeks to extend this prohibition, despite grave concerns about the impact of such decisions. other measures in the irish legislation include criminalising ‘spurious’ appeals and the prospect of fines to legal representatives who take on such cases. as ireland is not party to the 2003 directive, i felt obliged to abstain, but commend the aims of the report.
in writing. − i abstained in the vote on this report as ireland did not participate in the adoption of the 2003 directive. the principal reason for this position relates to access to the labour market for asylum seekers. the prohibition on asylum seekers entering the labour market is to be re-enacted in a bill currently before the dáil.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, a ardionadaí agus a choimisinéir ferrero-waldner, cuirim fáilte mhór roimh an socrú do chúnamh daonnachta do stráice gaza a deineadh inniu. is céim sa treo ceart í seo do pharlaimint na heorpa. tá cúrsaí daonnachta go dona i ngaza faoi láthair, agus tá dualgas ar an aontas eorpach cabhrú léi. many words have been spoken with regard to the need for peace, dialogue, understanding, temperance – if one would wish to use that word – with regard to the reactions and the counter-reactions to different events. but three things jump out at us immediately when we speak about the middle east. firstly, it is not a negotiation of equals. there is strength on one side, weakness and division on the other side. secondly, it is not an equal participation of outside influences and outside media coverage. one side gets more positive protection from international media and countries; the other side suffers under the derogatory terms of ‘terrorism’ or ‘reactionary’. thirdly, and most importantly of all, despite all the political disagreements, geographical disagreements and historical disputes, it is the same people who continue to suffer day after day after day: women, children, innocent civilians, people who have no truck with political groups, political organisations or with paramilitary groups or terrorist organisations. these are the poor innocents caught in the middle of the rocket fire, of the bombing and the so-called – and i laugh when i hear these words being used – ‘targeted intelligent bombing’. there is no such thing as an ‘intelligent’ or ‘safe’ bomb. when it lands, it blows up – it kills people. we have ample evidence to show that not only the hamas rockets going into israel killed innocent people but that, a hundred times more, the bombs and the bullets from the israeli forces have killed thousands and injured thousands of people within gaza and within the occupied territories. indeed we have evidence from an irishman, john king, who works for unwra in gaza, to show that, when they informed the israeli authorities that their bombs were landing close to a un compound in gaza that was storing fuel and food and was also acting as a refuge to children whose school had been bombed earlier in the day, the bombs came closer; and when they had to phone them a second time the bombs landed on the fuel dump within the un compound. perhaps it is negligence, misinformation or deliberate targeting, but one way or the other it is an act – maybe not quite a war crime in some people’s minds – but it is an act of attack on the institutions of peace, humanity and freedom. at times of war there are rules of engagement, there are certain things which cannot be done. of course we must get aid and assistance to the palestinian people for the rebuilding of their areas; of course we must ensure and insist that talks take place and that peace can be allowed to flourish, but that requires us to take brave moves within europe as well. like martin schulz, i congratulate javier solana on walking that long lonely path of speaking to people that nobody else would speak to, of opening the doors of dialogue, because ultimately only through dialogue between enemies can you make peace, and only through peace can you build the foundations of a solid two-state solution that will guarantee peace, equity, security and justice within the middle east.
(ind/dem). – mr president, today we are debating a resolution about humanitarian aid. before making my contribution, i would like to stress that i am not speaking on behalf of the ind/dem group as it has no position on this topic. instead, i am speaking as an mep on behalf of myself and of my people. the vast majority of the people of gaza must rely on humanitarian aid for their very survival – food, water, shelter, clothes and, especially, medicine. this is a population that has been under siege for a very long time. all crossing points have been closed for 18 months and now, with the terrible recent aggression visited on the people of gaza, they are even more desperate. because the siege has still not been lifted and crossings are still closed, it is very difficult to get essentials to the people. i note in recital e of this resolution that we europeans give ourselves a nice pat on the back for our humanitarian aid efforts. you, commissioner, talked of the political efforts that you are making, but do we deserve this praise? israel-eu trade is worth eur 27 billion annually. if we really wanted action on gaza we would use the power that this trade gives us by imposing economic sanctions. our refusal to do this, even at the height of the bombing in january, indicated that we prefer the status quo of business as usual, with our contribution of humanitarian aid possibly being a salve to our conscience. not only are we unwilling to risk upsetting a good business market for the sake of bringing injustice in gaza to an end, but we are also unwilling so far to dissolve or even just suspend the eu-israel agreement. i have a great love of the jewish people. in college i took the opportunity to study several courses of their history and literature under a rabbi. however, friendship does not mean blindness but the willingness to be honest. actually, judging by demonstrations that took place in the major cities of israel, there are many israeli citizens who publicly oppose their government’s action. to return to the urgency of the humanitarian aid: rebuilding physical infrastructure is important, but it is understandable that agencies may be hesitant to rebuild when it looks as though an even more threatening regime is taking over in israel. rebuilding human infrastructure, however, cannot wait. we must get supplies in. i would especially point out that the particularly vicious weaponry used in january has left many people with missing limbs and terrible burns. i myself know what it is like to have a healthy child become disabled. we must get intervention – medical and educational – to all those thousands of people, especially children, who since the new year have become disabled for life. as we help them we must record their stories, to begin the process of gathering evidence for targeted attacks and possible war crimes.
madam president, having returned at the weekend from a visit to gaza, i am going to spend my 60 seconds talking about what i believe to be a serious problem there. our principle of human security is one which obliges us to respond to the humanitarian crisis, but it also obliges us to respond and tell israel that enough is enough and that no more can europe turn a blind eye to the abuse of the palestinian right to self-determination. the most significant abuse of that right is the relentless and deliberate colonisation of the west bank and east jerusalem by israel. there are now 500 000 settlers squatting on territory which is supposed to comprise the main territory of the proposed independent palestinian state. it is increasingly difficult to believe that israel really favours an independent palestinian state, while proceeding to annex more and more palestinian territory – and does so up to the present date. declarations that europe and the usa are committed to a two-state solution, which includes a sovereign and viable palestinian state, are not really worth the paper they are written on unless we say ‘stop’ to israel in relation to settlements. they must be frozen now and eventually dismantled; otherwise there will never be a sustainable peace in the middle east, mr solana.
mr president, water is a key issue of cooperation across the mediterranean. so too, i hope, is a pan-european super-grid, or hvdc interconnection, including a connector between spain and the north-western coast of africa. it is of critical importance to mainstream the use of renewable energy including wind, hydro, various solar technologies and others. being able to rely on it at peak demand depends entirely on spreading the input into our grids from as many sources as possible so that the output can always respond to demand. if the wind is not blowing off the north-west coast of ireland – and ireland has been described as the saudi arabia of europe in terms of wind energy! – it will be off the north-west coast of africa, or the solar thermal operations in the mediterranean, especially spain, will be feeding the grid, or the range of pv installations across the region will be inputting. this scenario is a win-win for the mediterranean region, for energy security, for energy politics and above all for serious regional decrease in our carbon dioxide emissions from our current dependence on fossil fuels for industries, transport and heating and cooling.
mr president, the recent poll in the irish times on monday showed growing support for the lisbon treaty in ireland, with 51% of voters now saying they would vote ‘yes’, particularly at this moment of irish economic fragility. this is an increase of eight points since the last poll was taken by the irish times in november of last year. the ‘no’ vote has also dropped six points to 33%. concerning our current strained relationship with the european union, in the absence of leadership from the present government, an attempt must be made to address the root causes of the irish electorate’s periodic disenchantment with the eu. there must be a meaningful engagement with the irish people to rebuild an understanding of, and support for, the european process. this communication shortfall can be breached by allowing more positive information to flow freely about the advantages of being part of the eu. i believe it is important that the positive role of europe must be highlighted through our education systems. this should not apply to ireland only, but also to all member states. i would urge that the communication deficit be tackled at the earliest possible date.
mr president, on the theme of the lisbon treaty my colleague has spoken about the increase in support among the irish electorate for the treaty, but i would warn that one swallow does not make a summer. i think that must be taken against a background of a recent eurobarometer poll, which shows that support for irish membership of the eu has dropped by 10 percentage points from 77% in the spring of 2006 to 67% in the autumn of 2008. yes, there is a job to be done to persuade the irish electorate about the positive benefits of the european union. that is why i would be concerned about those who want an earlier date for a second referendum in ireland. i believe that we need to be cautious, we need to give time for the clarifications to be given on the issues of concern to the irish voters and we need time for those issues to be debated in full and in public – and in due time allow the electorate to give their view.
mr president, i want to refer to the issue of transparent and accurate food labelling and in particular i refer to poultry and pigmeat. right now meat can be transported from outside the eu into the eu, substantially transformed – and by that i mean encased in breadcrumbs or batter – and then labelled and sold as eu produce. this is an absolute nonsense, and the labelling is designed to fool the consumers. we need country-of-origin labelling so consumers are able to make informed choices. we also have the situation where pigmeat and poultry meat has been frozen, then defrosted, labelled and sold as fresh. not only is this an example of inaccurate labelling, it is potentially dangerous for human health. i note that hilary benn, the uk environment secretary, and the shadow secretary have called for clearer labelling. i am sure that many across the eu would support this, as nobody would want to fool consumers. i would ask the commission to deal with this matter as a matter of urgency.
mr president, under directive 2000/84/ec, summer time begins on the final sunday in march and ends on the last sunday in october. i would like to propose that this period be expanded in order to maximise many economic, safety and environmental benefits which are associated with the summer time period. in 2005, the united states implemented a programme of extending daylight saving time by four weeks – an additional three weeks in the spring and an additional week in the autumn. there is already clear evidence that this has helped reduce both energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions. in fact, a report by the united states department of energy found that extending daylight saving time by four weeks saved enough electricity to power some 100 000 homes per annum. similarly, a recent study by the university of cambridge also suggests that increasing summer time would lead to a decrease in both energy consumption and carbon-dioxide emissions, as, during the peak demand period from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. each day, many of the more expensive and carbon-emitting ancillary power stations are switched on. as the rapporteur of the review of the eu ets, which formed the cornerstone of the eu’s climate and energy package adopted last december by this house, i urge you to consider this proposal as a contribution to meeting the 2°c target. so i would like a review, please, of the daylight saving time directive.
mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report. i endorse his first comment about the economic crisis, its particular impact on the developing world and, indeed, the fact that we are not reaching our target of 0.7% in aid. this is very regrettable because, when the developed world shrinks, the developing world really takes the brunt of it. i came to this debate because i was anxious to hear the arguments about legal bases. it seems to me that, underneath all of this, there is a fear that the budget will be spread too thinly. let us just call a spade a spade. let me quote the comments made by an aid agency which contacted me today: ‘while we support parliament’s request for a financing instrument for non-oda activities in developing countries, we strongly believe that it must be established on a legal basis which is appropriate to the activities which it intends to finance. the use of article 179 as the legal basis for non-development activities is clearly not appropriate and, as such, would contravene both the ec treaty and the acquis communautaire. it also opens the possibility that, in future, non-oda activities may be financed from budget lines which are intended for genuine development activities. we very much hope that the amendment will be withdrawn.’ so, as a member of the ppe-de group, i am here tonight to listen to both sides of this argument, but also to put forward some of the lobbying that i am receiving from very genuine people in the development area, whose concerns i need to address. i repeat the point that, if we were awash with funds, our legal basis might not cause us so much grief. the difficulty is that we are not. there is concern among those involved with the development agenda – the focus of concern – who are fearful that the money available will be spread over too many activities. however, i remain to be convinced.
mr president, could you share the five minutes between the two applications that have been made? i would be interested in taking two minutes, if that was in order?
mr president, with the greatest respect, we have already wasted two minutes talking about it. there are five minutes from the floor under ‘catch the eye’. i have participated in other debates where there were perhaps one, two or three speakers and we share the time. i want just two minutes – i do not know about the other colleagues. thank you for allowing me to trespass on your patience, mr president. i fully support the establishment of legal status for new european research infrastructures for pan-european research projects and pan-european funding. i have two quick points. i have in front of me – and i would like to compliment the commissioner and his staff – a publication entitled ‘a more research-intensive and integrated european research area: science, technology and competitiveness key figures report 2008/2009’. i think the figures may be well out of date, given the collapse in gdp across the eu and elsewhere. i particularly pick up the point that public funding of r&d can be counter-cyclical, as happened in japan and the us in the early 1990s and early noughties respectively. when there were collapses in their gdp, the public sector investment in r&d went up. could you extrapolate from what we are experiencing at the moment in the eu, with what we have available in fp7 and from member states, in view of the collapse of economic growth throughout the eu at the moment – we are not alone globally – whether we will be able to compensate with increased public sector funding in r&d? my second point concerns the frightening prospect as regards the eu’s world share in patent applications, which has declined by an alarming figure. the high costs of patents in europe, you say, might possibly explain this. in europe the costs and corresponding costs for patent applications are over 20% higher than in the us, 13 times higher than in the japan patent office, while the costs of maintaining a patent protection in the 27 member states is over 60 times higher in the eu than the us – frightening implications. perhaps you could tell us, commissioner, how we could resolve this as soon as possible? i should like to congratulate you once again, commissioner, on a fascinating publication.
madam president, the european parliament’s priority today has to be to get the largest majority possible for the commission proposal to extend and make permanent the option to lower vat rates on labour-intensive services. this is not an issue for political grandstanding or, indeed, promoting pet projects. thousands of low-skilled jobs are being lost every day in every member state. low vat rates have been shown to encourage employment in services, assist smes, and, indeed, make the informal economy less attractive. our responsibility here today is to deliver a strong message to our member state governments to get on with it. the construction sector badly needs a boost – renovations, repairs, and installations will help achieve energy efficiency, as well as helping employment. restaurants, childcare and care of the elderly would also benefit. i support the rapporteur’s approach and i hope that my own government, the irish government, will opt into this proposal, which unfortunately it has not done to date.
in writing. – we are in a global crisis, but a global crisis that is hitting locally. the turmoil started across the atlantic, but has affected our cities, towns and villages. measures introduced to combat the crisis and to rehabilitate our damaged economies must not concentrate solely on the national and international but on the regional and local also. extending reduced rates of vat to locally-supplied and labour-intensive services is a positive step in this direction. it is a pragmatic decision that has the potential to stimulate local economy and encourage local enterprise and industry without interfering with the proper functioning of the internal market. i hope that this measure can be part of a wider approach adopted by the eu and national authorities to make it attractive to buy local, to build up local economies and consumer confidence. such an approach would impact positively on small and medium enterprises. this is crucial as smes make up 99% of all european enterprises, but the sector is suffering in the current climate. i believe that strengthening and supporting the sme sector is key in getting our economies back on their feet and building for a sustainable economic and social future.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i apologise for interrupting the vote. under rule 170 of the rules of procedure, i am asking the members of the house to postpone the vote on the onesta report with regard to the petitions process, as this matter is at present being dealt with in the conference of presidents in the context of the reform of the procedures of the house. the conference of presidents will discuss the very specific reform issues dealt with in the onesta report at a meeting on 5 march 2009, and i am asking that, if possible, the vote on this report be postponed until the strasbourg part-session in the second week of march. i am asking the house to approve this if possible.
madam president, it is in my opinion seriously demeaning to the dignity of this house, and indeed to that of the czech presidency, that the formal visit of president klaus should be undermined by allowing the occasion to be used to disseminate materials to influence the outcome of the lisbon treaty ratification process. if this is permissible – and i would ask for your ruling on this – the logical conclusion will be a recipe for chaos in our corridors, with those on each side of the argument filling this house in increasing numbers and competitively and aggressively pursuing their points of view. please ensure that the bureau does not allow it to happen again. (mixed reactions)
madam president, i voted against the kinnock report with a very heavy heart, because the problems the report identifies are very important. tragedies are happening all over the world, but the basis of her report is the un convention on the rights of the child and we move on, we do more and more on the basis of a very flawed convention. this convention was always a compromise; it was always a mixed bag. on the one hand, it has many good things, but, on the other hand, it has some absolutely inappropriate parts. it was written in 1989, in an age before we knew about predators. for example, it has rights to full access to the mass media in all communication to children and vice versa. so we have based this whole report on a very flawed convention, which also places the state as the only arbitrator of the best interests of the child, as opposed to the family, which in fact sets the parents as the nurturers and the guardians but not as the determiners of rights. so i had to vote against it. it also includes abortion, which has no place in children’s rights.
madam president, i am delighted that we continue to take mental health with some seriousness and some priority here in this house. it must remain high on the eu health policy agenda, as one in four people will experience a depressive illness at least once in their lives, and by 2020 it will be the most common illness in the developing world. however, i am afraid that in member states, including my own country, we have the theory; we talk the talk. our mental health policy is articulated in a document called a vision for change and many of the calls for action in the rapporteur’s report are stated in our national policy or, indeed, are enshrined in our legislation. but i am afraid the coalface delivery of mental health services continues to be completely unfit for purposes. there is a huge disconnection taking place between the theories and the reports, and we are always – particularly in my country – an action plan away from action. i am afraid mental health services and delivery to those who require them continue to be the cinderella area of most mental health policies in all our member states. this must change.
madam president, i did vote for this report but i felt that there was a missed opportunity here – missed in committee – to include electro-shock and to once and for all recommend a ban on this most torturous of treatments that we still use in many countries in europe. another area where i have serious questions is the growing movement towards assessing all small children for mental health problems and medicating appropriately. although this report fortunately does not go that far, there is a casual reference to the assessment of children. many children, if you assess them as children, would not seem normal and yet they are developing well. the key question we must ask ourselves, in the face of growing mental health problems, is: why is it getting worse, particularly in the face of suicide? are we not allowing human society to exist in a way that enables people to develop and live in a normal, healthy way? if mental health is getting worse, we have to give a lot of thought to the society we are creating.
madam president, i very much welcome, and indeed i supported, mrs miguélez ramos’ report on applied research relating to the common fisheries policy. this calls for improved and advance use of applied research. the issue of conservation and maintenance of our fishery stocks is a vital one in which it is very difficult to get a balance and call it right. using the most up-to-date science as a tool can only help the task ahead of us. however, much as i appreciate the report, i would like to caution that in these straitened economic times we must be aware of duplication of effort and avoid same. it will be necessary to ensure that we are not, at community level, doing what is best left to member states.
madam president, i recommended to my delegates from ireland to abstain in the votes on both the von wogau and vatanen reports, because ireland has retained its neutrality. our position in relation to that and our involvement in the european union have been written into protocol. ireland has a triple-lock system in relation to deploying troops to any other country: it must be under a un mandate, and it must be approved by the government and by the oireachtas, the irish parliament. that will continue under the lisbon treaty. that does not mean that ireland is not prepared to play its part, especially in peacekeeping roles. for instance, we have been very involved in chad, with great success. this is under a mandate from the un: the un could not provide the troops, and the european union stepped into breach. that mandate expires on 15 march 2009. it has been a very successful 12 months from a peacekeeping point of view, and long may that continue. ireland will continue to make its contribution in a peacekeeping role, whether this is through the un or the european union.
madam president, i should just like to add to what i have said already. we are looking for the lisbon treaty to be approved in ireland. we will retain our neutrality under the lisbon treaty – the treaty will not change our position on that. we will continue to play our role in peacekeeping, once we have a united nations mandate, and if the european union steps into the breach, we are quite prepared for, and have in the past been involved in, that peacekeeping role.
in writing. − i abstained in the final vote on this report because of concerns about the wording of paragraph 44. overall, the thrust of this report is very good, highlighting as it does the need for special consideration to be given to children in eu external actions. therefore i support the bulk of the paragraphs in this report, but have abstained because of concerns about paragraph 44.
in writing. − i support this report which was initiated by the socialist group. the report is about worker's information and consultation rights. it calls on the member states to better implement the 2002 framework directive, in particular, by:- introducing effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions - making sure that information is sent in due time so that workers' representatives can react before any decision by central management - extending workforce size thresholds regardless of age or type of employment contract to cover all workers it also calls on the commission to start infringement procedures against member states that fail to implement this legislation and make sure that all information and consultation directives are coherent and where necessary propose a revision. we must give a stronger voice to workers in the decision making process of their company. this is even more important during the times of crisis, in order to mitigate or avoid job losses.
in writing. − i support this report which calls on the commission to promote the social economy in its new policies and to defend the social economy’s concept of ‘a different approach to entrepreneurship’, which is not driven mainly by the profit motive but by social benefit, to ensure that the particular features of the social economy are properly taken into account in the framing of legislation. it also calls on the commission and the member states to develop a legal framework that recognise the social economy as a third sector as well as to set up clear rules for establishing which entities can legally operate as social economy enterprises. social economy enterprises are characterised by a form of enterprise that differs from the capital enterprise model. these are private businesses, independent of the public authorities, which meet the needs and demands of their members and the general interest. the social economy is comprised of cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations and other enterprises and organisations that share the founding characteristics of the social economy.
in writing. − mental ill health affects a staggering one in four people. stigmatisation of and discrimination against those who suffer from mental ill health still persists. by the year 2020, depression is expected to be the highest ranking cause of disease in the developed world. currently in the eu, some 58 000 citizens die from suicide each year, more than the annual deaths from road or homicides. the need for information campaigns in schools and platforming from there into all areas of life is crucial. we as legislators, social workers and with responsibilities within our communities need to focus on early diagnosis and early intervention in order to combat the stigma. what we have learned from research which is crucial for our services, is that mental health is strongly determined during the first five years of life. so promoting mental health in children is an investment for the future. eu projects have already proved successful by addressing post-natal depression in mothers, improving parenting skills, organising home visits by nurses to assist future and new parents and providing resources for schools. research shows that providing resources for schools for our young students can improve child development and reduce bullying, anxiety and depressive symptoms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and am particularly concerned that the current economic crisis is putting pressure on individuals and families and could result in an increase in mental health problems. one person in four will experience some form of mental health disorder at least once in their lives. depression is one of the most common disorders, affecting one in six women in europe. it is estimated that by 2020 depression will be the most common illness in the developed world. in the eu, some 59 000 suicides are committed each year, 90% of which are attributable to mental disorder. we need to focus as much on mental health issues as we do on physical health.
mr president, i too condemn unreservedly the killing of two british soldiers and the injuring of four others outside the massereene barracks in the town of antrim last saturday. the real ira, a fringe republican group in northern ireland, has claimed responsibility for this horrific attack, which is the first deadly attack on northern ireland security forces for 12 years. those who perpetrated these terrorist acts must be brought to justice and made to account for their horrific crimes. their attacks do not command political support from the people of northern ireland. the good friday peace agreement of 1998 clearly lays out the framework for political and economic development in northern ireland. the structures laid out in that agreement are working well in support of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, and peace and reconciliation. we cannot, and will not, allow these individuals to destroy the peace that we have worked so long and hard to achieve in northern ireland.
a uachtaráin, tá feirmeoirí déiríochta i gcruachás mór. tá praghas lítir bainne tite idir 22 agus 24 cent. tá titim thobann tar éis teacht ar an éileamh domhanda do tháirgí déiríochta go mór mór san áise agus sa tsín mar gheall ar scannal an mhealaimín. tá timpeall fiche míle feirmeoirí déiríochta in éirinn agus tríocha míle fostaithe go díreach i ngeall air sin. chomh maith leis sin, tá méadú táirgeachta 3 % sna stáit aontaithe amháin. tá ardú chomh maith sa táirgeadh sa bhrasaíl. tá fadhb eile ann agus is é sin an ráta malartaithe idir an euro agus an punt sasanach. is léir go gcaithfí cabhair ghearrthéarmach a thabhairt do na feirmeoirí chun cuidiú leo maireachtáil. rud amháin gur cheart a dhéanamh ná scéim idirghabhála a thabhairt isteach. bhí sé seo an-rathúil fadó.
madam president, i, too, want to add my voice to those who have condemned the murderous, vicious and cowardly attack on the british army barracks in northern ireland and i want to send my heartfelt sympathies to the families of all those who were injured or killed. the particular issue i want to raise this evening is that on wednesday night the commission will issue a statement on its green paper on the eu workforce for health. according to the green paper, the key to maintaining a sufficient workforce is to educate, recruit and retain young practitioners. yet in ireland we have the very opposite situation, with a 16.5% cut in undergraduate nursing places. in my own region at st angela’s college we have a cut of 25% for general nursing and 40% for intellectual-disability nursing. the commission must put pressure on member states to ensure each country takes responsibility for training its own health-care workforce and that we also have an ethical requirement whereby we do not seek to recruit health-care workers from developing countries and damage their already vulnerable health-care systems.
madam president, i too would like to welcome this report. about 80% of all new jobs in the european union have been created by smes, and in my own constituency of dublin about 400 000 people are employed by about 100 000 companies in the sme sector. we must do all we possibly can at the moment to support these companies in difficult times. i welcome the fact that the eib has a fund of 31 billion euros for small- and medium-sized industries, and i think that more should be done in this area. also, the cutting of red tape and bureaucracy by the commission has to be welcomed. that amounts to savings for the european union of about eur 2.3 million. i had a meeting recently with commissioner verheugen where we discussed with irish business people the problems that they faced. one idea that should be looked at is that of maybe having a moratorium on new red tape coming from europe, because that is stifling business. during these difficult times, we have to do everything we possibly can to make sure that businesses survive until the hoped-for upturn. however, that cannot be done by europe alone. it must also be done by national governments and by local governments, which have a huge role to play. if we want to get our small businesses and employment to stabilise in the european union and in each individual member state, we must do everything we possibly can to try and save them. the challenge that we have at the moment is about jobs, jobs, jobs, and we must bend over backwards to try and protect existing employment and, hopefully, in the years ahead try and create new jobs. that is absolutely essential for all of us.
in writing. – i strongly support the consumer protection orientated calls of this report from mep evans, in particular the call for the commission to conduct a sector inquiry into on-line advertising. consumers are frequently misled by deliberately confusing online offers and advertisement despite european legislation that seeks to prevent this. the commission must act to ensure legislation in this area is upheld and not just a lip service to consumer rights. i welcome the calls for the commission to undertake and analysis of the effects of competition on unequal relationships between suppliers and retailers. this is a problem of particular importance in ireland. this disparity in competition policy should not be permitted to continue and consumers are being punished further in an already challenging economic time. i also welcome the general block exemption regulation (gbers) which allows member states to authorise aid in favour of smes, regional development, training, employment and risk capital. measures which support entrepreneurship and innovation and bolster smes in this difficult time should be delivered quickly. smes are the cornerstone of the economy and it is our duty to ensure that they are supported to the best of our collective ability.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh an tuarascáil seo agus tréaslú leis an uasal schwab as ucht an tuarascáil a thabhairt chun cinn. rud ar bith a dhéanann an bóthar níos sábháilte, caithfimid fáiltiú roimhe. ar ndóigh, is é an fheithicil féin an ghné is tábhachtaí de seo mar aon lena chinntiú go bhfuil an caighdeán a bhaineann le feithiclí níos sábháilte. mar a dúirt an coimisinéir, seo táthú nó cur le chéile ar bhreis is 50 rialacha eile. fáiltím roimh an simpliú seo, mar tá sé ag teastáil trasna na heorpa go mbíonn an caighdeán is airde ag na feithiclí a dhéantar agus go mbeidh freagracht ar tháirgeoirí feithiclí an caighdeán sin a bhaint amach – ní hamháin maidir le boinn an chairr ach na gnéithe eile a léiríodh anseo ar maidin, cosúil le smacht leictreonach agus gnéithe nua-aimseartha eile, a chinntíonn go mbíonn na gluaisteáin agus na feithiclí a chuirimid ar an mbóthar den chaighdeán is fearr.
madam president, i want to raise a related matter. the commission will know that three ‘f’ gases are among the six major greenhouse gases. i was rapporteur on the mobile air conditioning (mac) directive relating to their use in mobile air conditioning. it would appear that loopholes are being exploited between that legislation and type approval legislation, which was the tool chosen to implement the directive. i have been alerted over the last few weeks to plans by car manufacturers to avoid any refrigerant change at all, in 2011 and beyond, by applying type approval of certain components. this would mean that the deadline for prohibition of the use of r134a would now be 2017 rather than 2011. hence, the avoidance of tonnes of co2 equivalent emissions will no longer happen. national type approval authorities are ultimately responsible for the implementation of the mac directive. for example the vca, which is the type approval authority in the uk, has recently stated that it will approve, after january 2011, new types of vehicles fitted with existing – already approved to regulation (ec) no 706/2007 standards – macs containing ‘f’ gases with a gwp greater than 150. as a consequence, we have evidence of car manufacturers delaying – if not stopping altogether – development and investment in innovative sustainable technology. can the commissioner please comment?
mr president, if there are any weaknesses in the nitrates and water framework directives, i think issues in relation to pig, poultry and dairy activities must be addressed there. i do think the compliance costs would outweigh the benefits of their inclusion in this particular piece of legislation. but there are other legislative vehicles for tackling these particular sectors and they must be looked at on that basis. on the issue of large combustion plants, the eu ets operation today does not safeguard against design lock-in of unnecessary pollution in many new high-cost and high-emitting installations, particularly in new coal-fired plants, which, when built, would expect to operate for over 40 years, thus making it difficult and more expensive to meet overall climate goals. co2 emission performance standards would help ensure the electricity sector is decarbonised to a timetable consistent both with limiting increases in global average temperatures to less than 2°c and with bringing new, cleaner technologies on-stream. industry needs, above all, legislative certainty to make investment decisions on these large, expensive, capital projects. a 350 g limit would ensure that only the most efficient state of the art gas-fired plants, for example, are built. co2 standards that apply from, say, 2020 would mean that new coal-fired plant stations could only be built after entry into force of this proposal, providing they use co2 capture equipment from 2020 onwards, by when we expect ccs to be commercially available. existing installations would have a longer period to comply with the standard, either by adding co2 capture technology or, indeed, by closing down. installations could also comply with the standard in other ways, for example by co-firing biomass or by using the heat from cogen techniques. as rapporteur on the recent eu ets review, i am concerned with the overall level of ambition across all our policies. the latest science shows us that we need to have stricter emission limits over a shorter timetable if we are to achieve the 2°c target which, by our vote on the climate and energy package in december, we as a parliament accept as necessary for environmental, social and the economic future of society. the ets alone will not be enough to cut electricity-sector emissions on the scale required. to conclude, there is comfort in an esn, but i am still worried that this may be an incentive to the lowest possible common denominator and minimal emission reductions – in other words a race to the bottom. please convince me otherwise.
mr president, as a member of the committee on agriculture i will restrict my remarks to the impact of this proposal on the farming sector across the european union. i endorse the comments of other colleagues who have concerns about ‘spreading the net’ and dragging farmers into the coverage, as industrial polluters. agriculture must be monitored for its emissions, but i do not accept that we should do it in this way. i would suggest that the nitrates directive in its current form does much of what we are talking about. perhaps we need to look at that directive, which is causing problems in many member states, at how it is being implemented and at whether it is being effectively implemented. in addition to that, there are concerns about dragging in poultry, in particular, because that european sector is under huge threat from imports from third countries, where no such restrictions apply. i would support amendments to the effect that this should not happen in the current proposals. likewise, the inclusion of dairy farming is of concern, and i would support colleagues in my own group, and others, who have tabled amendments to take these sectors out of the current proposal. i repeat my suggestion that, when it comes to agriculture, there is a myriad of directives covering emissions and pollution control in this sector, and so maybe it is time we looked at recasting all of those so that farmers who are required to implement them can fully understand and appreciate what they are meant to do. it is one thing to draft legislation, as we do in this house, but we sometimes have no connection with how it is being implemented, and by whom it is being implemented, and whether that implementation is effective.
mr president, access to documents is one part of the process of transparency, but there are many other issues. the use of documents and information is key, and one of the big problems we have – and we acknowledge it, and the commissioner in the chamber currently is one of the best practised – is to get knowledge of the eu’s decision-making process out there, because people do not understand the process. during the lisbon treaty debate in ireland people came up to me and said: ‘you are urging us to vote “yes” and you are going to lose your job’. they thought i was the commissioner – perish the thought! it is not enough to say that we give people loads of information, because in one sense that would lead to a lack of transparency: it just covers things up with mountains of paper but no clarity. i would prefer that people fully understood how this place works and therefore could engage with it. i dare say that there are many in this house who do not fully know how this place works. i rest my case.
mr president, as we have decided to vote, maybe you could indicate why so many amendments were ruled to be inadmissible. that is the problem, and that is the point originally raised in relation to the recast versions under review. we do not understand why some amendments are inadmissible. could you clarify that as we proceed to the vote?
mr president, i shall be brief. i voted in favour of this report because anything that improves road safety has to be welcomed. i have an additional point. we have concerns in ireland about road-safety issues. when roads are being maintained by local authorities we have had some terrible tragedies on these roads, and this is an issue that perhaps needs to be looked at from a european point of view and standards put in place.
mr president, amid all the confusion about casting and recasting, this was a very difficult vote for many members. in the end i abstained on this vote because of my concerns about soils in particular. the committee on agriculture and rural development has concerns about a soils directive and this is an issue that needs to be carefully examined. we made some progress in the amendments in relation to agricultural issues in general, but my vote in the end was to abstain, rather than vote against, because there is much in this report around the environment, about power generation and emissions, of which i am in favour.
in writing. − mep schwab has proposed a report which aims to increase car safety through the introduction of increased safety measures requirements for car manufacturers. all new vehicles manufactured in the union will be subject to compliance with the technical requirements and measures which will reduce their environmental impact, decrease associated noise pollution and increase their road safety. the regulation combines advances in european manufacturing and technology and increased levels of safety protection that the european consumer can expect. these innovations will help to reduce co2 emissions, fuel consumption and noise pollution. i am delighted to support this report which will benefit us all.
in writing. − i strongly support the original ippc directive. industrial activities covered by existing directives emit 55% of the eu's co2 emissions, 83% of so2 and 34% of nox. under the current directive, permits are issued by the environment protection agency which require industrial plants to apply "best available techniques". during the vote this morning, there were a number of problematic amendments regarding the new ippc proposal. 1. minimum requirements. ireland is against the minimum requirements amendment, as this will penalise irish industry and the work recently undertaken to achieve the status of the current directive. resources would be better spent enforcing the directive in those member states which are non compliant. 2. poultry and manure and slurry. there were a number of amendments seeking to bring more poultry and manure spreading within the scope. i have voted against this amendment to avoid double regulation, as the nitrates directive suffices on manure and slurry. on poultry, the ippc already controls 40 000 poultry places. an amendment would reduce the threshold values from 40 000 to 30 000 for laying hens, 24 000 for ducks and 11 500 for turkeys. there is nothing stated in the impact assessment about how these numbers came about and on what scientific basis they were established. 2. installments. i also voted in favour of flexibility for installments
in writing. − mr lehne has proposed an own initiative report proposing a council regulation that aims to make it easier for small and medium enterprises (smes) to facilitate cross-border transfers within the community of the registered office of a company formed in a member state of the community. the aim is laudable; however, we must be cautious that this facility is not abused to undermine national company law while ensuring that the statute (societas privata europea) represents a viable alternative for businesses. there are many proposals among the numerous amendments which remain highly contentious, including references to minimum capital, checks on registration, references to national law, cross-border components and employee participation. certain amendments proposed by the econ committee have called for uniformity in certain areas by 2010, including tax, effectively restricting the application of national law. while accepting in principle the proposal of a european company operating according to the same principles eu-wide, the scope of this proposal should not extend to restricting national taxation decisions, which remain firmly the preserve of individual member states.
in writing. − consumer protection is of paramount importance to all member states. it is also an area in which member states can cooperate to ensure protection for consumers availing of cross-border services. ms. schaldemose’s report on the integrity of online gambling is an example of how a pragmatic, cooperative approach from member states can result in an approach that has consumer protection at its core. the report recognises that the integrity of online gambling is best dealt with by recognising the principle of subsidiarity in this area and allowing member states to regulate the industry themselves. however, it calls for cooperation and coordination on combating fraud and crime and addressing social and public order problems such as addiction and personal data protection. central to the report is the safeguarding of the integrity of sports and sporting events. it is absolutely essential that sport is first and foremost recognised for its social, entertainment and health values and that these values are in no way threatened or manipulated for financial gain. online gambling is enjoyed by many european citizens. we must ensure that these citizens are protected and i believe that ms. schaldemose’s report is an important step in that regard.
in writing. − i voted against the report on the integrity of on-line gambling as i believe the alternative motion, which was rejected by the plenary, would have better reflected the up-to-date position in the on-line gambling sector. i share concerns about citizens being ripped off and the worries about gambling addiction, but note that gambling is controlled in the majority of member states in order to protect citizens against gambling addiction and fraud and to prevent money laundering. we need to prevent problem gambling and under-age gambling, in addition to fighting fraud and crime. i believe that the alternative resolution would have addressed those concerns more effectively.
i scríbhinn. − tá cosaint an tomhaltóra ríthábhachtach do na ballstáit uilig. chomh maith leis seo, is réimse é seo ina bhfuil géarghá le comhoibriú idir na ballstáit, go háirithe ó thaobh seirbhísí trasteorann de. léiríonn an tuarascáil seo ar chearrbhachas ar líne gur féidir le cur chuige pragmatach, bunaithe ar chomhoibriú, a chinntiú go mbíonn cosaint an tomhaltóra i gcroílár pholasaithe an aontas eorpaigh aithníonn an tuarascáil seo gurb é an cur chuige is fearr atá ann le déileáil le cúrsaí cearrbhachais ar an idirlíon ná aitheantas a thabhairt do phrionsabal na coimhdeachta san earnáil seo agus cúrsaí rialúcháin a fhágaint faoi gach ballstát aonair. é seo ráite, aithníonn an tuarascáil gur tríd an gcomhoibriú agus tríd an gcomhordú is fearr a bheidh ballstáit an aontais eorpaigh in ann dul i ngleic le calaois, coireanna, agus fadhbanna sóisialta. i gcroílár na tuarascála tá an tábhacht a bhaineann le spórt agus an gá atá ann sláine agus macántacht spóirt a chaomhnú. caithfear luach sóisialta agus cultúrtha chúrsaí spóirt a chosaint agus a chinntiú nach ndéantar mí-ionramháil air ar son airgid nó a leithéid. baineann roinnt mhaith daoine san aontas eorpach sult as cearrbhachas ar líne. caithfimid a chinntiú go bhfuil na daoine seo slán ón olc ar líne.
in writing. − small businesses are the backbone of the european economy, accounting for 98% of all european businesses and employing up to 60% of the eu’s workers. the european commission is to be applauded in its initiatives to date and its continuing work aimed at eliminated red tape for small businesses. ms herczog’s report recognises the work done by the commission and calls for further steps in this direction. while i certainly support many of the comments contained in the report on the small business act, i was very disappointed that the report that emerged from the committee on industry, research and energy contained a paragraph calling for a common consolidated corporate tax base. i would have hoped that there would be global recognition at this stage that the ccctb proposal is badly thought out and ill-advised. this issue is of such importance to ireland, especially in these economic times, that i had to vote against this proposal. doing so will have no adverse affects on the commendable work that is being done for small business but will send out a strong message that we must take a stand against unproductive, unwieldy and ill-conceived proposals that will be of no benefit to the european economy.
in writing. − the commission’s proposal for a small business act is part of a communication containing legislative proposals, guiding principles and measures to be implemented to help smes in europe. i welcome the articulation of ten guiding principles, which focus on the needs and requirements of smes and aim to help them realise their full market potential. the provisions for legislation that is fully aware of the needs and requirements of its intended recipients are welcome, as is the adaptation of public policy tools to the needs of smes. vitally important is the introduction of means of using the present crisis to respond to the environmental crisis by increasing efficiency, through thorough environmental management systems. as the rapporteur on eu-ets, i am aware, as i hope we all are, of the need to act and act promptly if we hope to solve this challenge. while i agree with much of this report, i am wary of proposals for a corporate consolidated tax base and voted against accordingly.
in writing. − paragraph 68 of this report contains a reference to a common consolidated corporate tax base, stating that there should be a common basis for company taxation. that is something which i cannot and do not support. taxation is a member state competence, not an eu one, and any reference to a ccctb inevitably brings concerns about eu corporate tax rates, which is not something i can support. i therefore rejected the first part of the paragraph, and because the plenary voted overall in favour of that paragraph, i voted against this report in the final vote.
mr president, the package has been a very difficult one for parliament and the council. there has been much negotiation and debate, and i am glad to see the issues have been finally resolved. the adoption of this package is a victory for the european parliament and certainly for the rapporteurs who have fought to ensure that we delivered on behalf of our citizens, even against very strong opposition from member state governments. this law will impact on a variety of areas, including the standards of european flags, ensuring improved inspection procedures for ships. what we have now is more transparency and stricter inspections. essentially this package will deliver safer vessels, meaning a lower risk of environmental disasters and loss of sea life. from the point of view of ireland, the timing is extremely important by virtue of the fact that we have a latvian ship tied up in an irish port where the crew have not been paid, they have not been given enough food and they have no way of getting back to their member state, latvia. these are the kinds of issues that have to be tackled, and i look forward to the implementation of the package.
mr president, i would like to reiterate, on the record, in relation to this most important maritime package, recital 3 of the review of the eu-ets directive, which was passed by an overwhelming majority; this directive deals with our carbon dioxide emission reduction targets and the timetable for same. recital 3 states that ‘[a]ll sectors of the economy should contribute to achieving these emission reductions, including international maritime shipping and aviation. in the event that no international agreement including international maritime emissions in its reduction targets through the imo has been approved by member states and/or no such agreement through the unfccc has been approved by 31 december 2011, the commission should make a proposal to include international maritime emissions according to harmonised modalities in the community reduction commitment with the aim of its entry into force by 2013. such a proposal should minimise any negative impact on eu competitiveness taking into account the potential environmental benefits.’ comments please, commissioner.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liomsa a rá go dtuigim céard atá taobh thiar den tuarascáil seo. ach chomh fada agus a bhaineann sé liomsa, tá sí éagothrom mar tá an dleacht seo, an eurovignette, ag cur costais ar thíortha atá i bhfad ó lár an mhargaidh. dúirt an coimisinéir go bhfuil ceantair sléibhe ag dul i gcoinne an mhargaidh aonair. céard faoi cheantair cosúil le mo thoghcheantar féin in iarthar na héireann, ina bhfuil 1 000 leoraí sa tseachtain ag dul amach as? tá siadsan buailte ag dul go dtí an margadh. agus cad í an chaint seo gur margadh singil, aonair é? ní hea! tá costas á chur ar na tíortha ar an imeall mar gheall go bhfuil sibh ag iarraidh an ghlasaíocht a chur ar an margadh. ach, ní féidir an dá thrá a fhreastal. caithfidh tú smaoineamh ar na tíortha atá amuigh ar an imeall agus cothrom na féinne a thabhairt dóibh, a uachtaráin, rud nach bhfuil tugtha dóibh sa tuarascáil seo.
has there been a change in the rules of procedure? i thought it was the questioner who had a supplementary, plus two other members. secondly, what time does question time continue until tonight as we started late?
mr president, i do. my apologies. i understood you were only giving it to the questioner and one other. i misunderstood the point you made. i would like to follow through by asking the commissioner to name any member state that will not have an excessive deficit, as understood to date. secondly, could she develop exactly what the commission is going to propose to the council as decided this morning in relation to ireland?
i would like to thank the commissioner. i do not for one minute doubt that the commission is doing an awful lot on it information. you can see a lot of the work they do. i am a recent participant in the ‘twitter’ site and i have to say that i am more than surprised and impressed at how much information is on that site from the european union. it gives a huge amount of information and i would like to congratulate them on that. however, we still have a problem with people from disadvantaged backgrounds and elderly people using and accessing the internet and new technologies. this is changing all the time, but we have an opportunity, or a challenge, between now and the june elections, and i would just like to ask you whether you have any plans to try to get more people to participate on the internet to promote the june elections in the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for her reply. in recent days we have seen in northern ireland two soldiers and a policeman killed, as has been referred to by another member, by people who secretly arrogate to themselves the right to do things like this based on bigotry and evil and – yes – racism and xenophobia. they, and their like, use such things as the internet to recruit and to spread their evil words and deeds. it seems to me very clear, for example, that if the rules for entering chat rooms were to be tightened up, by not allowing the use of, for example, hotmail – i confess i do not know very much about it but it is very easily used – and insisting instead on some sort of traceable e-mail, then the people who do these sorts of things, which they could not do in the open, would be more easily traced. i ask the commissioner to use all her powers to continue to pursue this issue, because it is not acceptable that the internet should be used for racism and xenophobia.
member of the commission. − the commission has always encouraged turkey to implement all the decisions of the european court of human rights. a debate will be held tomorrow in plenary, and this subject will also be discussed.
member of the commission. − the european commission considers that turkey is sufficiently prepared to start negotiations on the energy chapter and has therefore recommended that this chapter be opened in spring 2007. our viewpoint has not changed on this subject. however, opening a chapter requires unanimous approval by all member states, which has not yet been done. in the context of the recent energy crisis, we fully agree with you that both the union's and turkey's interests would be better served by close cooperation and alignment of turkey with community energy legislation. the opening of negotiations on energy would make a decisive contribution to this objective.
member of the commission. − these are the rules. the commission made a proposal, and now it is up to the council to decide unanimously whether the chapter is open or not. so these are the procedures. we have to follow the procedures.
member of the commission. − the two questions by mrs harkin and mr ó neachtain mainly concern the same subject. thank you for giving me the opportunity to answer them together. i am happy to say that the commission has recently taken a number of measures within the dairy sector in an attempt to try to end the downward spiral of prices. we have already introduced private storage earlier than we normally do, we have also started the intervention system whereby we hope to be able to stabilise the prices for butter and for skimmed milk powder, as this intervention system will certainly remove a lot of quantities from the market. originally we entered a level of 30 000 t of butter and 109 000 t of powder, but i have indicated recently that we will be able or willing to go higher than these figures by opening a tender. export refunds for the dairy sector were further alleviated recently. we can see that we are faced with a significant drop in the world market prices although europe has not increased its production, despite the 2% increase of the milk quota which was agreed for last april. so i think i can say to those people who argue that the drop in prices is due to the increase of the quota that this is not the case, because we can see that in spite of the 2% increase in the quota, production is staying at a lower level than we used to see before. but with the introduction of the export refunds we should see a situation where we can increase the chances for the european union’s dairy producers to be present in the world market. at the same time this may also alleviate the imbalance within the dairy market. in response to the specific question that mr ó neachtain put forward, the irish dairy sector with a relatively high share of milk processed into butter and into skimmed milk powder, and a relatively high share of export outside the european union, will in particular benefit from the measures taken by the commission. i can promise you that we are closely following the situation in the dairy market; this can be seen from the fact that two weeks ago we actually increased the export refunds in the dairy sector, and we will be willing to take all the necessary steps. of course the sector itself also has a responsibility to adapt production to demand, in order to try to restore profitability, and mrs harkin wants to know if the commission has similar plans for other sectors. i gather that the question might be aimed at refunds for the pigmeat sector. but i must say that at present i do not see any justification for introducing export refunds in the pigmeat sector because we see that the number of pregnant sows and the number of piglets are decreasing; consequently the input on the european market will decrease, and therefore we hope that the result will be increasing prices. we also have to take into account that for pork production the situation is totally different to the end of 2007 because today the feed input prices, and the energy prices, are considerably lower than when we introduced the export refunds for the pigmeat sector. so please trust me that we will continue to keep an eye on the situation. i do not underestimate the difficulties in the dairy sector; i think it is decades since we experienced a situation like the one we are seeing today.
thank you for your very detailed reply, commissioner. you talked about the measures you have taken to stop the downward spiral of prices. as you are well aware, milk prices at the moment are below production prices. many dairy farmers are hanging on by their fingernails. i am very pleased to hear you say that you will be willing to take all the necessary steps. by that, are you saying that you would be prepared to make greater use of some of the dairy management tools that are at your disposal, such as export refunds, aid to private storage and intervention? i would like you to clarify that for me, please.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liomsa freisin buíochas a ghabháil leis an gcoimisinéir as ucht an freagra cuimsitheach a thug sí. ach, mar a thuigeann sí, tá deacrachtaí móra ag táirgeoirí bainne. cosnaíonn sé níos mó an bainne a tháirgeadh ná mar atá á fháil acu air. glacaim leis an méid a dúirt tú faoi éirinn, ach an féidir aon bheartas breise a chur ar fáil – beartas idirghabhála – chun an praghas a ardú ag an bpointe seo? mar ní féidir leanúint ar aghaidh mar atá feirmeoirí ag leanúint ar aghaidh ag táirgeadh bainne faoi láthair.
i should like to thank you, commissioner, and i particularly welcome your decision in relation to reintroducing intervention as a short-term measure only because we have a crisis situation. would the commissioner not agree that we have four problems: firstly, the rate of exchange between the euro and the pound sterling; secondly, the reduction in production as a result of the melamine scandal in asia and in china; thirdly, the 3% increase in production in the united states and, last but by no means least, our old enemy, brazil? would we not need to be constantly monitoring world trends in order to have our answer ready for these kinds of situations?
thank you commissioner. i particularly welcome the conference that is going to take place and indeed we can be very proud of the standard of our food products in europe – i certainly agree with you on that. i want to refer, however, to the proposed compulsory electronic identification of sheep, which commences in january 2010, and which the commission is determined to press ahead with despite the opposition of the agricultural committee members and the farming organisations. we have, as members, challenged the operational and cost implications of the compulsory electronic identification, and the disastrous consequences for an industry already in serious decline. would the commission consider granting a further deferral or removing the compulsory nature of this proposal? failing that, would the commission consider meeting the additional costs of compulsory electronic identification?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – commissioner, many of my constituents are babies and very young children, and tonight i would like to speak on their behalf, especially as there are many very good speakers tonight who can speak effectively for women in the workplace. the care a child receives in the earliest years will have an impact on him or her throughout life. many students of child development, like maria montessori, have noted the need a young child has for the presence of his or her mother, or mother substitute. many of them have also noted a watershed in a child’s development at two years and nine months, after which it becomes safe for a child to spend periods of time away from his or her primary care-giver. in the last decade, brain-imaging technology has backed up those observations, demonstrating that there is a definite shift in the child’s brain that allows him or her to internalise the primary care-giver, usually the mother, so that she is available to the child in active memory even when she is not present. at that time the child can understand that the mother, or the substitute primary care-giver, will come back and is not gone forever. of course, life is not like that and mothers often work outside the home. they may want to work, or choose to, and even if they do not they may need to earn because mortgages must be paid and food must be put on the table. women have been a wonderful addition to the workforce. their inclusion and equal treatment is a matter of fundamental rights. however, babies do not know, nor are they able to consider what their mothers must, or want to, do. they are hardwired to need what they need. nature is a very powerful force. there are always consequences when we go against nature. having a loving invested mother is the ideal for a child, which we should make every effort to accommodate where a woman wants to be available to her child in those early years. this is because, if that young child needs the constant reassuring presence of its mother, not having her will have an impact, despite all the very worthy reasons for her absence. however, as i said, women work, and we must do our best to at least ensure that if someone other than the primary care-giver is taking care of the child below the age of two years nine months, that it is someone who can give the child as nurturing a care as possible. some children are fortunate enough to receive this care from secondary care-givers like fathers, grandparents, other relatives, close neighbours – people who are committed to them and part of their life on an ongoing basis. however, this is simply not the lot of most babies and toddlers who would be cared for in childcare facilities. it behoves us to ensure that those facilities are clean, safe, stimulating and, above all, nurturing, and are not just holding centres. children are our future. the foundation they receive is of utmost importance, but the time, space and nurturing children need to grow and develop fully is becoming a luxury afforded to fewer and fewer. for better or for worse we are shaping europe’s future by how we raise our children. i would ask the commission to view this issue for a moment from a child’s point of view. if you could ask a baby whether it wanted its mum or a day-care centre, it would always choose mum. we need to listen to that child as mothers do, and to help them find a way to reconcile home and work to the benefit of both.
mr president, i commend the priority given to this debate. losses of companies like qimonda, due to their large size and importance as an economic anchor to regional and even national economies, have to be treated seriously by policymakers. the demise or offshoring of these companies is often a function of globalising forces. globalisation – normally a positive force that increases global welfare – can, unfortunately, wreak huge havoc on regional economies when large companies move location. this has happened in my own area in ireland south, where dell has announced layoffs of 1 900 of its staff at its factory in limerick. likewise, in waterford, where waterford wedgwood may be closing in the not-too-distant future, and again, between that and downstream jobs, another thousand jobs may be lost. this has to be treated seriously by policymakers. therefore, i welcome commissioner špidla’s resolution to do his utmost to deploy monies available in the european globalisation adjustment fund and the european social fund. the eur 500 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund could provide huge benefits by giving a second chance to laid-off workers to upskill, retrain and become the entrepreneurs to drive us out of this recession. the ball is firmly in national governments’ courts to apply for this funding. it might be worthwhile in this context to push for 75% co-financing to make their applications easier and, therefore, deliver recovery on the ground to the affected workers rapidly and effectively.
madam president, with the backdrop of the global economic and financial crisis and the multi-billion stimulus packages, there is a huge opportunity to increase energy efficiency, to increase energy security from reliable renewable sources and to drive green technology in a green ‘new deal’. in other words, to turn this crisis into an opportunity, and to the benefit of us all in the long term. i welcome the two alternatives for innovative funding for combating global climate change in the recent commission communication. as the original author of the resolution on today’s paper, i urge member states to act on these proposals and also, at next week’s summit of heads of state and government, to honour the declaration of the summit of 12 december last, which should be put officially on the record, preferably along with the final text of the eu-ets report, as otherwise it will not appear in the official journal. for this – and i urge the president-in-office, the commissioner and madam president to remember this – we need a tripartite declaration from all three institutions. this december declaration states: ‘the european council recalls that member states will determine, in accordance with their respective constitutional and budgetary requirements, the use of revenues generated from the auctioning of allowances in the eu emissions trading system. it takes note of their willingness to use at least half of this amount for actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, mitigate and adapt to climate change, for measures to avoid deforestation, to develop renewable energies, energy efficiency, as well as other technologies contributing to the transition to a safe and sustainable low-carbon economy, including through capacity-building, technology transfers, research and development.’ it continues. ‘in the context of an international agreement on climate change in copenhagen in 2009, and for those who wish so, part of this amount will be used to enable and finance actions to mitigate and adapt to climate change in developing countries that will have ratified this agreement, in particular in least-developed countries. further steps are to be taken at the spring 2009 european council in this regard’. i await eagerly an honourable outcome of the declaration from next week’s meeting of heads of state and government.
madam president, a very brief amendment to the original text. paragraph 20, line 3 should read: ‘reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation’. at the moment it reads ‘reducing emissions for deforestation and degradation’. i want to change the word ‘for’ to ‘from’. in the english version it is wrong. this is not contentious.
madam president, while the amended version was an improvement, it was still with a heavy heart that i supported this own-initiative report, since it was not consistent with the climate and energy package carried by a huge majority in this house on 17 december 2008. just to remind us, my own eu-ets report, which was the cornerstone of this package, was carried by 610 votes for, 60 abstentions, and 29 against. needless to say, mr reul was not among the 610 members out of 699 who supported my report. i have reservations about any reference to drilling in the arctic or exploration for alternative sources of oil, such as tar sands. past months have shown that the importance of energy security has never been as acute. the cooperation that is necessary across the eu, and the need to take advantage of the stimulus packages currently launched by almost all member states and the commission, underscore the need for investment in renewables to increase our energy security, to decrease our carbon emissions and to wean us off our high dependence on fossil fuel, albeit over an agreed timeline.
in writing. − we welcome the shift in emphasis in this resolution, and some of the positive proposals in relation to regulation of the financial sector, innovation, energy efficiency and investment, as well as acknowledgement of the need to protect employment, create jobs, combat poverty and focus on the most vulnerable groups in society. however, the logic of the lisbon strategy is flawed and needs to be fundamentally revised, particularly in light of the new economic situation. in addition, three are a number of specific proposals contained in the resolution which are short-sighted and counter-productive, such as the insistence on deregulation and on flexible employment practices leading to a weakening of workers rights. for these reasons we abstained in the final vote on this report.
i scríbhinn. − caithfidh tíortha na heorpa oibriú le chéile chun aidhmeanna comhshaoil an aontais a bhaint amach. ach chun a chinntiú go mbíonn beartas comhshaoil an ae inbhuanaithe, ní foláir prionsabail an ae agus tréithe agus riachtanais éagsúla gach ballstáit a chur san áireamh. tagann an tuarascáil eurovignette salach ar na haidhmeanna sin i gcás na mballstát atá imeallach san aontas eorpach. chuirfeadh moltaí an eurovignette pionós ar thíortha imeallacha agus dhéanfadh na tíortha atá i lár na heorpa an-mhaith as. measaim féin go bhfuil moltaí an eurovignette ag teacht salach ar phrionsabail an mhargaidh aonair agus creideann mise gur leatrom ar bhunús tíreolaíoch é sin ar thíortha áirithe. is oileán í éire atá suite ar imeall na heorpa. ní bheidh leoraithe ó thíortha eile ag teacht trí éirinn ach beidh ar na leoraithe tromualaigh seo againne táille a íoc in an-chuid tíortha ar fud na heorpa. níl aon dul as: caithfimid gnó a dhéanamh, caithfimid ár n-earraí a onnmhairiú agus a allmhairiú. faoi thogra an eurovignette beidh buntáistí iomaíochta ann do thíortha atá suite i lár na heorpa, nach mbeidh orthu na táillí céanna a íoc. níl sé ceart nó cóir idirdhealú den saghas seo a dhéanamh bunaithe ar suíomh tireolaíoch tíre ar bith.
in writing. − the eurovignette directive was created to harmonise levy systems on european roads - including vehicle taxes, tolls and charges relating to the use of road infrastructure and establish fair mechanisms for charging infrastructure costs to hauliers. the recent revision of the directive from the commission proposes additional amendments to the directive; such as cost assessment for the environmental impact of hgvs (heavy goods vehicles) in terms of noise pollution, congestion and air pollution. countries with large amounts of transit traffic hold considerably different opinions to more peripheral countries, like my own, which depend on large volumes of traffic for importation and exportation of goods. while in principle these are fair, it should be implemented in a gradual and equitable manner. these are issues that we cannot afford to ignore. hgvs are frequently subject to time constraints and external timetables, like those of ferry operators. the construction of a port tunnel in dublin city has done much to reduce the need for hgvs to be in the city centre, and has increased the quality of air and reduced noise pollution. this was a worthwhile investment. i am not convinced of the need to create a european independent authority to fix toll levels, and would argue that this falls under the domain of subsidiarity.
in writing. − on behalf of my fine gael colleagues in the parliament i would like to clarify that we did not vote in support of the el khadraoui report on the charging of hgvs, due to concerns over the legal basis for the proposal, concerns regarding the compulsory use of electronic tolling and the provision for earmarking of revenue. we fully support the principles behind the proposal, but believe the report’s application of the principle is flawed.
in writing. − on balance, i can support this own initiative report from my colleague, mep reul. as the past months have shown, the importance of energy security has never been as acute. the cooperation that is necessary from all member states (ms) and the need to take advantage of the stimulus packages currently launched by almost all ms and the commission underscore the need for investment in renewable technology to increase our energy security and decrease our co2 emissions. our years of dependence on fossil fuels have left us with two stark conclusions: 1. we need to be independent from global geopolitical forces, as the russian/ ukraine impasse this winter showed and the ravages of opec's pricing policy. 2. our need to meet ever pressing co2 reduction deadlines continues and should be maintained as a matter of utmost priority. we can not shy away from the challenges both economic and environmental with which we are currently faced.
in writing. − the report that mep jarzembowski has presented makes the 'greening' of transport a priority and is an important first step towards a more comprehensive approach making transport more environmentally friendly. an essential part of the response to climate change is an alteration in our means and methods of transportation, be it in the adoption of advanced hybrid vehicles, in increased green public transportation or the increased efficiency of other methods of transportation. the rapporteur has advanced the options of charging heavy goods vehicles (hgvs) for the pollution they cause and including noise pollution caused by rail transport under the provisions of the report. it is important that we consider the needs of peripheral european countries who encounter several geographic barriers that depend on a strong transport network to supply their countries, and for their economic growth. we must ensure that these measures are applied in an equitable manner. with these reservations, i am pleased to support the report.
in writing. − the financial and resultant economic crisis have dwelt a huge blow to european growth and the stability of the job market. in these difficult times, our primary aim must be, as this joint resolution says, to protect eu citizens, whether workers, entrepreneurs, householders, from the effects of the crisis. while the current crisis is undoubtedly devastating, it also offers opportunity: opportunity to change our way of thinking; opportunity to build a strengthening framework for sustainable growth that can withstand potential shocks; and opportunity to build a sound economic and social base for the future. among the elements of this resolution that particularly appeal are the recognition of the crucial role of small- and medium-sized enterprises and the support that needs to be given to them. not only do smes provide valuable employment, accounting for 80% of new jobs in the eu in recent years, but they also play a key social role in stimulating local economies, diversifying employment and encouraging entrepreneurship. similarly, the emphasis on innovation – especially in the environmental sector – is very welcome and an illustration that the twin goals of energy efficiency and economic stability need by no means be mutually exclusive.
president-in-office of the council. − let me react to mrs harkin’s question. the presidency is fully aware of the importance of long-term care in the context of an ageing population. according to eurostat, the population of over-65s in the eu will double between 1995 and 2050. in its conclusion of 16 december 2008 on public health strategies to combat neuro-degenerative diseases associated with ageing, the council welcomed the work already carried out by associations that defend and support patients and their carers and called on the member states and commission to reflect together on support for carers and to consider ways of developing it further. in addition, the council also invited the member states to establish, in cooperation with the stakeholders concerned, a national strategy action plan or any other measures aimed at improving the quality of life of patients and their carers, as well as to improve the distribution of useful information to patients, their families and their carers, in order to make them aware of the care principle and best practices that have been identified. the council also recommended that member states should evaluate the complexity or redundancy of administrative procedures which confront patients and their carers and consider measures for simplifying them. moreover, in the 2008 joint report on social protection and social inclusion, transmitted by the council to the european council, member states committed themselves to increasing access to quality services. to this purpose they reaffirmed that the right balance needs to be struck between public and private responsibilities and formal and informal care and that provision in a residential or community setting is to be preferred to an institutional setting. the council also called on the social protection committee to continue to promote the sharing of experiences and exchange of best practice regarding the quality of long-term care, assistance to carers, the organisation of long-term care and the importance of integrated care. the presidency will carry on the objective of the 18-month programme of the council in the field of public health and focus efforts at eu level on enhancing the exchange of experiences relating to health care and solidarity with carers, taking into account the health challenges created by our ageing societies. the czech presidency will pay special attention to issues of community long-term care, informal family care, and the dignity and rights of older persons. the presidency will organise a european conference on dignity and hazards for the elderly, which will take place in prague on 25 may 2009. the conference will focus on the reform of social and health services to respond better to the needs and preferences of older persons and families and will deal, inter alia, with such issues as community long-term care, family care, geriatric frailty, prevention of abuse and neglect of the elderly, and the role of municipalities. the presidency will also organise the european conference called ‘social services – a tool for mobilising the work force and strengthening social cohesion’, which will take place in prague on 22 and 23 april. the conference will pay special attention to growing employment opportunities in social services in the context of population ageing, support for informal carers and the role of social services in active social inclusion and reconciliation of care and employment. priority attention will be paid also to independent living in the community. the conference should contribute to exchange of best practices. let me conclude with the recent development in the area of taxation. the ecofin council reached an agreement just yesterday in brussels that all member states should have the option to apply reduced vat rates on a permanent basis to domestic care services such as home help and care of the young, elderly, sick or disabled.
i have been very encouraged by the czech presidency, particularly in the emphasis it has placed on the family. the commission’s report on demography, which shows that we have an ageing european population, is subtitled ‘solidarity between the generations’, but it is really within the family that we learn solidarity and that this is based on love and care. i am also very glad that the czech presidency has identified respect for human dignity, because that principle is at the heart of care. i would like you to comment on that because, as far as i can see, in order for care to be delivered to those who are dependent on care in a way that respects human dignity, we have to keep that principle in mind.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his response. i think it is a tribute to the presidency that they had planned an employment conference before we recognised or realised ourselves the seriousness of the unemployment arising from the economic crisis. but in light of that employment summit that will be taking place, there are three key issues which have to be focused on and dealt with: firstly, not just using the european social fund merely for training but also to ensure that that training leads to actual jobs and is not just training for training's sake; secondly, ensuring that the globalisation fund is made more active immediately because the job losses are occurring now; and thirdly, and most importantly, encouraging our colleagues in the council not to engage in national protectionism of jobs in their own countries to the detriment of jobs in other countries, since if we coordinate and cooperate we have a better chance of success.
would the president-in-office agree with me that the situation we are in is not akin to the 1930s, but more akin to the situation at the end of the second world war, and that what we really need is something more akin to a marshall plan-type new input for recovery in europe? would he agree, therefore, that there is potential for the european investment bank to get an investor, such as china, to lend money to the eib to invest in europe, which could then be refunded through the extra trade tariffs and vat collected by the union to whoever lent that money to the eib? would he agree that while the employment conference is welcome, we need some new thinking and something as dramatic as what happened at the end of the second world war?
i would like to thank the president-in-office for the detailed and technical response, but let me give you a practical example which may focus your mind. in a few years the european union will ban the production of eggs from caged systems. however, the system will still be used outside of our borders and we will import liquid egg or powdered egg from those cages that are banned in the european union, and producers wonder at the logic of all of that. i ask you, as a man who is quite logical and detailed in your responses, how do you argue the case for that type of system unless we say that you cannot import the liquid egg or the powdered product coming from a caged system? it is ridiculous to ban it internally.
i would like to recall for the presidency-in-office that at the summit meeting last december all heads of state or government agreed to a declaration which said inter alia that, in the context of an international agreement on climate change in copenhagen in 2009, for those who wished to do so, part of the auction revenues would be used to enable and finance actions to mitigate and adapt to climate change in developing countries which have ratified the agreement, in particular the least developed countries. my question is very simple. because summit declarations do not appear in any official journal or on the record, before the end of your presidency, minister, could you put the full content of that declaration at last december’s summit on the record here in the house? it is most important that we have a record of such important declarations.
tá ceist eile ann as éirinn ach inár dteanga fhéin an t-am seo. céard iad, a cheapann tú, na cúiseanna is mó atá leis an uimhir ard de bhásanna ar na bóithre? bhfuil sé i gceist ag uachtaránacht na seice aon chomhordú nua a dhéanamh idir na caighdeáin éagsúla atá i bhfeidhm sna tíortha éagsúla eorpacha maidir leis na gluaisteáin a bheith i gcóir mhaith. chomh maith leis sin, an gceapann tú gur chóir go mbeadh níos mó ná teicneolaíocht i gceist maidir le laghdú a chur ar bhásanna ar na bóithre?
firstly, i would like to ask the council if it accepts that what we need are specific targets for each member state in relation to reducing the numbers of deaths and fatalities on our roads. secondly, would the council accept that we need the enforcement of a system whereby, if an offence is committed in one jurisdiction, the offender can be prosecuted by the courts in that jurisdiction, even though the offender has returned to his or her native homeland? last, but by no means least, i welcome the council’s information in relation to the ecall system, but when will it be mandatory in all member sates? it is vital from the point of view of accidents, and particularly one-vehicle accidents.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, more people work in health than any other area. the groups of health workers we instantly think of are doctors, nurses, pharmacists and dentists, who are supported by radiologists, lab technicians, researchers, therapists, biochemists and an army of administrators and staff who keep health services functioning. there is also a second group of professionals: the herbal physicians, chiropractors, osteopaths, homeopaths and nutritionists who focus on a more natural approach to health. lastly there are the family carers. the largest single group of health workers who labour day and night without pay in the health sphere. going back to the first group, in this report the commission is concerned that the number of professionals working in mainstream health care is not sufficient to meet the needs of the growing demand. the commission further stresses the need to attract young people to choose these professions. however, in some countries this is not the problem. in ireland last month 3 500 young people took an exam in the hope of securing one of a few hundred medical school places. similarly, there will be far more young people applying for nursing, therapies, etc., than our universities are willing to train. commissioner, it is not a question of attracting young people. it is a question of allowing them to train. our secondary students in ireland are working towards a career in medicine, but it is, unfortunately, made unattainable by a rationing system that is out of touch with demand, which leaves us with severe shortages of qualified professionals. i know that similar disconnects between training and demand exist in other european countries. i would suggest that, in working to attract young people to this profession, you will only frustrate them until we provide them with the opportunity to gain these skills. having not allowed these students to train and thereby creating an artificial shortage, we then, of necessity, bring in medical personnel from third countries – even the poorest countries – leaving their own people without medical help and creating a brain drain. the second group of health professionals i mentioned, like herbal physicians, were unfortunately completely left out of this report. to leave them out fails to acknowledge the valuable contribution they make in keeping europeans healthy and is out of touch with the wishes of many europeans who seek their help. this sector is very important. the commission’s apparent attempts to suppress it with directives, like the vitamin and mineral supplements directive, further compound this growing gulf between eu policy and people’s everyday health choices. finally, i would like to make reference to the third and largest single group of health workers: the family carer. these are the people who care for dependant older people and those with disabilities. we need them more every year, not less. as europe ages and the number of people with disabilities increases, we cannot take them for granted. the only way we are going to keep these essential carers is if we support them in their work. finally, our health force is more important than ever. the commission is right to say that there are new and re-emerging threats to health, such as communicable diseases. yet the commission should also take careful note that every chronic disorder related to the immune system dysfunction is on the increase, for example asthma, allergy, multiple sclerosis, autism, diabetes, epilepsy, fibromyalgia and many more. i would advise the commission to look at every one of these diseases that is on the rise and try to understand what is triggering these epidemics because, allowing them to increase unchecked and to affect more and more people, is both cruel and unsustainable.
madam president, the promotion of a sustainable workforce for health across in europe is crucial in continuing our improvement in health-care services and facilities across the 27 member states. europe faces a number of challenges in sustaining and improving our health-care services. the demography of the member states poses a major issue for health workers as europe’s population ages and life expectancy increases by 2.5 years every decade. increased pressures apply to the workforce because, as the population ages, so too do the workers. the key to maintaining an adequate workforce in the face of this imminent retirement is to ensure that there are sufficient younger recruits available to replace those who retire. the importance of improved health-care research and data across europe cannot be stressed enough. at present there is a lack of up-to-date, comparable data and information among the member states on a number of key health-care issues including training and employment of workers, age, gender and international flow of health professionals. the availability of europe-wide information is immensely important for the planning and providing of future health workers and for all health authorities.
mr president, i fully endorse paragraph 1(e) of this report, which talks about the need for a partnership tackling the major issues of climate change, energy security and the fight against poverty and exclusion. i have some concerns regarding the wto agreements – or potential agreements – from the perspective of eu farmers and food producers. as you know, there was a major battle about food production standards, and the commission finally conceded that it could not allow brazilian beef into the european union until it met our production standards. i applaud that decision and i think that we need to do this for every commodity. we cannot expect our producers to meet standards that third countries are not meeting. we will not get the cooperation of our producers for a wto agreement if that continues to happen.
mr president, i just wish to say on this report that i am pleased that our group’s amendment 1 was accepted and, therefore, i welcome this development. there is a challenge to protect soils in the european union, but it is a member state competence and does not require an eu approach, or eu directives or regulations. therefore, i welcome the outcome of this vote.
mr president, we all know how important water is and in the developing world in particular, where access to water is very difficult, it is young girls and women who suffer the most. their educational prospects are hugely diminished because they are the water-bearers, if you like. i saw this in india on a delegation visit and it is very important that we invest more in water management and make sure that it does not become an impediment to the educational progress of young girls and women. i particularly welcome the vote on paragraph 2, which declares that water is assumed as a public good and should be under public control regardless of how it is managed. it is a precious resource and it is there for the good of the public, not for individual control or profit.
mr president, i, too, am very supportive of our motion on the resolution of water and welcome our vote on paragraph 2, where we strongly declared that water is a public good and should be under public control. i personally strongly oppose the privatisation of water. we have seen in recent times how the relentless pursuit of profit has brought the global economy to its knees. we certainly do not want to see the same thing happening where water is concerned. in order to ensure water quality and ongoing improvements in the distribution system, there needs to be continued investment in the transition system. there is no incentive for those in the private sector to do this because, of course, the temptation is simply to increase the price to the consumer, rather than invest in upgrading the transmission system. i have seen this happen in my own county of sligo, where certain sectors of the community will end up paying more for their water than their fair share because there is simply a lack of investment by the private sector in the transmission system.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution and report, but i have some concerns. this morning, the commission acknowledged that we do not know where the wto is heading at this point, and therefore how it knits in with the strategic partnership. we cannot allow a situation where either the strategic partnership arrangement – or indeed a world trade agreement – has a negative impact on europe’s food security concerns. i reiterate the issue around food production standards, which are higher in the european union. we penalise our producers where they do not meet those standards. we cannot allow a situation where we bring in food from third countries – brazil or elsewhere – which does not meet our production standards and which results in very unfair competition for producers of food and agricultural commodities within the european union.
in writing. − deputy locatelli's report is part of the review of the lisbon strategy to make europe's economy the most competitive in the world by 2010, and central to this is the position of researchers in europe. four priority areas were identified where progress is essential namely - open recruitment and portability of grants,- social security and pensions,- attractive employment and working conditions and- training and skills of researchers;these areas deal with mobility, transparency, publicity and support to researchers and potential researchers. tying education, innovation and research into a coherent supportive policy is a vital part of a functioning knowledge economy. our efforts to combat 'brain drain' and establish a 'brain network' will be enhanced by proposals which minimise bureaucratic obstacles and increase social security support for researchers. as rapporteur on eu ets i am only too well aware of the critical role of research and the need to nurture the talent and minds available to solve the considerable climate challenges with which we are faced. i am pleased to acknowledge the introduction of an innovation alliance between ucd and tcd in ireland, which is a fine example of investing in researchers at the beginning of their careers.
in writing. − i voted against this report which seeks to establish a common aviation area with israel. despite claims to the contrary, this is not simply a technical report. rather, the eu, as israel's largest trading partner, entering into a common aviation agreement will clearly yield rich commercial reward to israel. however, given recent events in gaza; involving the brutal and indiscriminate slaughter of civilians, and, the levelling of gazan infrastructure, effectively obliterating billions in european development aid; in the context of the decision by the european parliament last december to defer the upgrading of eu relations with israel; and considering the continuing disregard for un resolutions and the extension of settlements in the west bank and jerusalem; and further considering my own recent visit to gaza where i saw first hand that israel simply hasn't lifted the siege of gaza to allow crucial humanitarian aid to pass;i regard it as wholly inappropriate for parliament to approve this agreement. the special trade agreement with israel should be suspended until it complies with human rights norms and engages in constructive and substantive negotiations with its neighbours to implement the two-state solution to the conflict.
in writing. − i abstained on the final vote on the ec-israel aviation agreement as a mark of protest with regard to the ongoing crisis in palestine. i believe that it is inappropriate to upgrade relations with israel until such time as it displays concerted efforts to alleviate the suffering of palestinian residents and engages in sustained political dialogue to reach a two-state solution to the region’s problems.
in writing. − i strongly support this resolution which calls for an immediate ceasefire by the sri lankan army and the ltte in order to allow the civilian population to leave the combat zone. it condemns all acts of violence and intimidation which are preventing civilians from leaving the conflict area. it further condemns the attacks on civilians as documented by the international crisis group. both sides must respect international humanitarian law and protect and assist the civilian population in the combat zone, as well as in the safe zone. the european parliament is also concerned about reports of serious overcrowding and poor conditions in the refugee camps established by the sri lankan government. we have demanded that international and national humanitarian organisations, as well as journalists, be granted full and unhindered access to the combat zone and to the refugee camps and we call on the sri lankan government to cooperate with countries and aid organisations that are willing and able to evacuate civilians.
in writing. − i support this resolution which brings forward specific recommendations for the european commission to strengthen its support for health services in sub-saharan africa and to review the balance of the european community funding with a view to prioritising health system support. half the population of sub-saharan africa is still living in poverty. indeed, africa is the only continent that is not progressing towards the millennium development goals (mdgs), especially the three health-related mdgs – on infant mortality, maternal mortality and the fight against hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria – which are crucial to addressing poverty but at current progress are the least likely to be achieved by 2015. basic healthcare infrastructure needs stable, long-term financial support if the health-related mdgs are to be delivered. indeed, this must include access to sexual and reproductive health services.
mr president, i wish to raise the issue of the sniping and remarks that are being made in some quarters about the irish banking and financial system. the irish system works within a legal and regulatory policy directive framework dictated by the eu. the system in ireland is as strong, or as weak, as that eu framework. as we all know, the regulatory system has failed globally. ireland is no worse, or better, than any other place. i object to hostile comments about ireland emanating from london, new york and the german media. all these places have experienced regulatory and banking challenges and problems equal to and, in many cases, far worse than those we have faced in ireland. the constant sniping from some of our eu neighbours has been based on prejudice rather than objective fact and does little for eu solidarity at a time when europe is going through enormous financial and economic challenges.
mr president, intergroups have a long and distinguished history in this parliament. in intergroups, meps can unite across the political divide to deal with particular issues. for example, the oldest intergroup – the one on disabilities – vets legislation that goes through this parliament to be sure that it is disability-friendly and educates other parliamentarians about disability issues. despite the valuable work of intergroups they have been marginalised over the last year and, effectively, they are being shut down by in-house parliamentary rules that refuse intergroups meeting rooms and slots in the schedule of the strasbourg sitting. i think we need to sort this out quite urgently – before the next term – because, otherwise, intergroups will be a thing of the past; parliament will be much poorer for their extinction and the people of europe will not be as well served. (applause)
mr president, i am rising on the issue of breaches of environmental law in ireland, specifically relating to water quality. the new eu survey of water quality in ireland indicates that almost two thirds of people say water quality is a serious problem, while half consider that the quality has deteriorated since 2004. eighty per cent of people consider that there has been no improvement in the quality of our rivers, lakes and coastal waters over the past five years. for seven years now the commission has been investigating whether or not the irish government is complying with a 2002 european court of justice decision that ireland was in breach of water-quality legislation. we have to find ways to ensure that the laws that we pass in the interests of the citizens of europe are in fact applied by the member states. the commission, who is the policeman and the policewoman of this union, must act in a timely way to ensure this compliance.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i welcome this debate, which offers the opportunity to once again draw attention to the necessity of including and honouring child-labour provisions in all eu trade agreements. by this i do not mean merely paying lip-service to the combat against child labour, or putting in place cursory or superficial monitoring systems. all eu countries and an encouragingly ever-increasing number of other states have signed up to the ilo conventions on the minimum age for employment and on the elimination of the worst forms of child labour. let us now, in our trade agreements, in our gsp agreements and in our public procurement policies, live up to those commitments. this means ensuring that companies operating in the eu are child-labour-free. child-labour-free does not only mean that there is no child labour being used in the parent company or even by its immediate suppliers: a company at the top of the supply chain must have the responsibility to ensure that all steps of, and conduits to, the supply chain are child-labour-free. today, over 200 million of the world’s children may be working illegally, denying them an education and childhood and putting their physical and mental health at risk. putting child-labour concerns at the core of all our trade agreements has to given priority. (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. – the international economic crisis should lead us to re-examine and to change eu policy concerning liberalisation and deregulation, not only in the eu, but in relation to developing countries. but the economic partnership agreements which are in front of the parliament are instead proposing an intensification of this failed approach. these agreements have been negotiated by the eu exerting strong pressure on governments of developing countries and without taking due consideration of the views of the people in those countries who would most suffer from their implementation. vague promises to be flexible in the implementation of the agreements are no substitute for concrete commitments.
in writing. – the rise of sub-contracting in europe has had far-reaching consequences for labour relations. it is not just labour that is subcontracted. the associated legal and financial obligations, such as, observing standards on wages and working conditions, and, the payment of taxes and social security contributions are also thereby externalized to subcontractors and employment agencies. worryingly, subcontracting may increasingly be used as a way of reducing direct social responsibility. thus, the idea of “joint and several liability” is crucial for ensuring that companies are responsible for their sub-contractors' practices. clearly, the enforcement of legal obligations becomes more difficult in long and complex chains of interconnected companies. this is especially so accross borders where various levels of contractors can be established in different member states and subject to different rules. at the moment only eight member states have national legislation covering the responsibility of subcontracting undertakings. i strongly support this etuc endorsed report which calls on the commission to establish a clear-cut community legal instrument introducing joint and several liability at european level, and, also requests the commission to launch an assessment of the feasibility of an instrument on chain liability as a way of increasing transparency in the sub-contracting process.
madam president, cohesion policy in all its forms is meant to be the engine of equality, and it has had many successes. however, cohesion policy should be considered in the light of a long-term assessment of its overall effect. in such an assessment, the question is simple: are communities and the people who live in them better off because of eu cohesion policies and the structural funds that support them? with an honest look at the record, one would probably find that the immediate answer is ‘yes’, but that in the long term it is too often ‘no’. we are told that farmers in ireland did well – and that is true. but why then, in the long term, are there so few farmers left and so many unemployed and under-employed in irish rural areas? was it that the structural funds and cohesion policy were no match for the cap? or that they could not mitigate the common fisheries policy, which, over three and a half decades, decimated irish coastal communities and fish stocks in irish waters? and why, with better roads and infrastructure – courtesy of eu funds – is limerick in the south-west of ireland becoming an employment black spot? is it because cohesion policy has nothing to say in response to competition policy, which allows a new member state to entice away dell, a keystone industry in the area, with eur 54 million in state aid? cohesion policy strives for equality, yet privatising directives, such as the postal directive, have had the effect of further eliminating services to poorly serviced areas. the problem may be that our cohesion policy has no cohesion with other eu policies, like competition, market liberalisation etc. the secret is that cohesion does not come from policies: it comes from basic unifying principles that should run through every policy – principles of respect for the human person, real subsidiarity, priority of the vulnerable, respect for life, stewardship of creation, the importance of family, the dignity of work, solidarity and a central focus on the common good. until all eu policies are guided by these principles, programmes will continue to conflict. (the president cut off the speaker.)
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs who are involved in this very important report. i think the economic crisis has forced us to take a long, hard look at our past economic behaviour. that, in turn, offers us an opportunity to learn from our past mistakes. i suppose that, when our economies were powering ahead, we unfortunately left certain groupings behind. addressing and improving access to microcredit offers us the opportunity to address these past mistakes. reshaping the microcredit framework can help us reinforce and rebuild our economies from the community upwards. in ireland some commendable work has been done in this regard. in my own constituency of dublin there are four enterprise boards that have been set up since 1993 and they have been supplying local-level support to microenterprises all over dublin city and county. the association of county and city boards in ireland announced its own financial stimulus package earlier this year, aimed at supporting 3 000 enterprises around ireland and creating 15 000 new jobs. the project also includes training for nearly 50 000 people. on a european level these are small figures, but our microcredit enterprise in dublin and ireland is hugely significant. i sincerely hope that, following on from this excellent report, we see significant and coordinated action at community level to support the invaluable work that is being done by and for microenterprise at local and national level around the european union, as it is a very important part of our economy today and a very important part of our economy into the future.
mr president, i want to make a point on ms martens’ report. firstly, let me say that the lisbon treaty is not a train wreck and it is nonsense to be saying that. twenty-six of the twenty-seven member states of the european union will ratify or have ratified it, and that includes the british parliament. it is a pity that british members do not respect their own parliament in some of the comments they are making here. the irish people expressed certain concerns about some issues, and the irish government and parliament are seeking clarification on those. if we get those clarifications and the people vote ‘yes’ in a second referendum later this year, will they come in here with their leprechaun hats and perform in the same outrageous manner that they did at the previous one? leave irish business to ireland. we do not need any assistance in this from people it took us 700 years to get out of our country! concerning the lisbon treaty, let me say that the population of the european union will be 6% of the world’s population within the next generation. china and all of those countries will be very powerful.
mr president, i have always considered all good sport to be art. as an example of art in the european union, could i refer to the all-ireland rugby team’s win at the millennium stadium, cardiff, last saturday, where we beat the welsh in a study of sporting and artistic excellence second to none? we have also beaten the english, the french, the italians and the scottish. this all-ireland team won the six nations – the grand slam. sport is art, art is sport. we must recognise this wonderful achievement.
mr president, this is a very important report – i agree with the rapporteur that perhaps we could have been braver and pushed out the boat a bit more. as a member from a country that votes on every single treaty, i am acutely aware of the need for a continuing active dialogue with citizens. it is my experience that more and more people are losing faith and trust in institutions. the eu represents a huge institution and we have a massive responsibility to ensure that active dialogue is core to what we do. i am particularly supportive of paragraph 32, and i thank the rapporteur for supporting my amendment on the fact that the european year on volunteering in 2011 will be an ideal opportunity for eu institutions to connect with citizens. we have called on the commission to submit appropriate legislation on preparing for 2011, and this they have started. we must now ensure that we have a meaningful dialogue with the 100 million volunteers across the eu and ensure that their views and opinions will form the core of any new plans, policies and programmes and that active dialogue with citizens will guarantee a strong, solid eu.
mr president, i voted for this report and i welcome it. for a long time we thought that the only thing that affected us was what we swallowed. i think the work done in this report really highlights the fact that anything we put on our skin goes into our system just as effectively as if we ate it. many of the diseases that particularly affect women, like breast cancer, fibromyalgia, me etc., are on the increase. i think we should now go beyond this, not just to make sure that cosmetics are safer, but we should also begin to do real research on the relationship between some cosmetic ingredients and these kinds of diseases that affect women and also try to come up with safer cosmetics, because of course we all want to continue to use cosmetics.
mr president, i voted for this report and for a stronger control of biocidal products, but i wanted to take this opportunity to point out that, in ireland, we legally put a toxic pollutant into our water – a biocidal product called fluoride. i want to congratulate the commission on opening a consultation process in which they are welcoming scientific papers, opinion from the public etc. on the issue of the pollution of drinking water with a toxic ingredient called fluoride.
mr president, i voted against this report because i feel it has weakened the commission’s proposal to apply higher rates of excise duty on manufactured tobacco products. studies have consistently shown that the most effective and permanent way of influencing people’s behaviour away from tobacco consumption is through taxation. studies in ireland by university college cork have shown that, after a complete smoking ban in workplaces was introduced in 2004, admissions for heart attacks in the area fell by 11% the following year. ireland also has the highest excise duty on tobacco in the union, which amounts to eur 4.99 per pack of 20 cigarettes, bringing the price to over eur 8 per pack. the benefits of a combined approach of deterrent pricing and taxation policy, smoking bans, public education campaigns and increased access to nicotine-replacement therapies, for people who wish to stop smoking, has innumerable health benefits and consequent health improvements for the general population. the czech republic is the only member state of the eu yet to ratify the un framework convention on tobacco control, and yet tobacco is responsible for over one million deaths in the eu. could you, as president of our parliament, demand the czech council presidency, on all our behalves, to make good this serious omission before its presidency is up?
mr president, i fully support recital 5 to this report. i am involved in such a case in ireland at the moment, where a mother has fled her home country of nigeria with her two daughters after her eldest daughter died as a result of female genital mutilation (fgm). at the moment her case is before the european court of human rights and the court has written to the irish government either to defend the case or reach what they call a friendly settlement. recital 5 states that female genital mutilation constitutes a violation of human rights and that an increasing number of asylum requests by parents are justified by the threat to which they may be subject in their own country for having refused to consent to their child undergoing fgm. i hope the court of human rights takes our statement into consideration when delivering its verdict in this case. finally, i agree with mr corbett that there has been a lot of talk about democracy here today but – for those who take the time and trouble – if one adds up the number of people who have voted on the constitution and the lisbon treaty in all the referenda in europe, there are in excess of 27 million europeans who have said ‘yes’ and 24 million who have said ‘no’. that is democracy in action.
mr president, i would have loved to have voted for the muscardini report on female genital mutilation because i have supported a ban on this barbaric practice for many years and i am also supporting a family’s case because they are threatened with this practice if they go back to their home country. however, as habitually happens, colleagues use the plight of mutilated girls and women to promote once again the abortion agenda by slipping in the mantra of ‘sexual and reproductive rights’ in this report.
mr president, i abstained on this report for two reasons, even though i fully agree with the title ‘multilingualism: an asset for europe and a shared commitment’. we have been told here today that the report deals with ‘certain national quarrels in spain’. i am very sceptical about using a debate on multilingualism and on the promotion of language as a sort of cover, or proxy, or political bargaining tool for the various national issues in all our member states, and that appears to have happened in relation to some of the debate on this at committee and here. i do not attack any of the rights of minority language speakers. in fact, i fully defend them and i really do feel that we must respect the right of our eu citizens whose first language is a minority language. there has to be a place for these languages in the european parliament, but not necessarily as official working languages, especially if these citizens happen to be equally fluent in english – as in our case. contributing to important debates in plenary and at committees, for example, in a minority language that has then to be translated passively and into over 20 other languages compromises the whole purpose of democratic debate through the lost nuance in translation, and maybe even misunderstanding. our democratic mandate here is to persuade as many people as possible to see our point of view, and the difficulty of getting a sufficient number of suitably qualified interpreters is another matter altogether. i therefore abstained for these two reasons.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr van nistelrooij on his report. in particular, i want to support paragraph 42, which calls for the establishment of real partnerships between all the parties involved in regional and local development at eu, national, regional and local level. in order to achieve territorial cohesion, this is a prerequisite. the involvement of local development groups and ngos in the pursuit of regional development and territorial cohesion has been shown, time and time again, to add real economic and social value. given that we are not achieving territorial cohesion between our regions, it is crucial that we establish and promote such partnerships.
mr president, i want to support paragraph 22, which – like the van nistelrooij report – calls for member states to strengthen the partnership principle in their programmes for the current period and in accordance with article 11 of the general regulation of the erdf, the esf and the cohesion funds. we in parliament write these regulations, but it is up to the member states to implement these regulations, and it is up to the commission to monitor their implementation. a recent report about the involvement of ngos and others in the development, implementation and monitoring of the structural funds in the new member states was entitled ‘the illusion of inclusion’, and i think the title says it all. member states and the commission are not shouldering their responsibilities. we in this parliament must continue to insist that they do.
mr president, i am particularly supportive of this report, the mention of credit unions and recognition of their contribution to providing microcredit facilities. as not-for-profit organisations, credit unions play a unique role in providing microcredit to many who would not be offered credit by many of the other financial institutions. i know that credit unions are not strong in all european countries, but they are strong in many, with reserves in excess of eur 40 billion. worldwide credit unions have reserves in excess of usd 1.1 trillion, with almost 180 million members worldwide. at a time when many people are losing faith in banking institutions, not-for-profit financial institutions are a viable alternative and they need our support. in particular, they need to be included in the jasmine programme so that, as providers of microfinance, they have access to business support services such as mentoring, training, advice, financing and education, etc. finally, a clarification on the muscardini report: i believe we voted for and passed amendment 1, where the term ‘sexual and reproductive rights’ was amended to ‘sexual and reproductive health’. in this context, i am not sure i agree with my irish colleagues who spoke earlier on this matter.
in writing. − i wanted to vote for this report on un priorities for the 64th session of the un general assembly because many of the priorities are worthy and should be supported and even promoted. unfortunately colleagues included ‘sexual and reproductive rights’ in the list of priorities and i cannot and will not ever condone the killing of fellow human persons, in this case babies before birth.
in writing. − the eu must get behind the mdg wholeheartedly, but i voted against the report on the mdg because once again colleagues have advocated ‘sexual reproductive rights’ in the report. giving children a chance in life is an important mdg.
in writing. − i support this report which takes up the serious problem of female genital mutilation. fgm has become more common in europe over the past 30 years through migration. fgm not only causes very serious and irreparable injuries to the physical and mental health of women and girls, - in some cases has even been fatal - but is a violation of fundamental rights enshrined in international conventions, prohibited under the criminal law of the member states and in breach of the principles laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. it is estimated that in europe, some 500,000 women have suffered fgm and that approximately 180,000 female immigrants in europe undergo, or are in danger of undergoing fgm every year. the report calls for the commission and member states to work together to harmonise existing legislation. the aim is to focus on prevention through better integration of immigrant families and to raise awareness by promoting educational campaigns and initiating dialogue forums on traditional practices. it strongly supports prosecuting anyone carrying out fgm, as well as providing medical and legal support for victims, and protection for those at risk, including the granting of asylum in certain cases.
in writing. − the practice of female genital mutilation (fgm) is one that, according to amnesty international, touches the lives of 130 million women for whom, for cultural, religious or other non-therapeutic reasons, circumcision is a ‘valued’ social practice inflicted upon them. research suggests that the practice persists because of a belief that circumcision will moderate female sexuality, and so assure subsequent ‘marriageability’, and that it is religiously sanctioned. fgm is known to cause a wide range of immediate, long-term complications and even death for women subjected to the practice. it has come to our attention primarily through globalisation and mobility of people and has become intricately linked to the policies and politics of immigration and asylum. when people are in fear of persecution, they are entitled to cross a border and seek refuge and protection. fgm is currently central to a debate in asylum cases, where michael aondoakaa, the nigerian minister of justice has recently offered to testify against families claiming asylum on grounds of the threat of fgm in nigeria, where it is officially outlawed. unofficially, however, i accept that it is still widely practiced, even in nigeria. in ireland fgm is viewed as an expression of gender-based violence. i support mrs muscardini’s report.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, rather than being hoisted on the petard of socialism, liberalism, conservatism or any other of the ideological ‘isms’ which are bandied about this house on a regular basis, i want first of all to congratulate the prime minister on his willingness to come here to present a case, to defend it strongly, but most importantly of all to offer a bridge between europe and america with regard to how we can solve some of the problems and difficulties that are laid before us, particularly because we now stand at a time of a global crisis. but that global crisis should not be allowed to forget the successes of the past. over the last 15 years we have had unprecedented economic growth, unprecedented employment growth, unprecedented wealth creation and unprecedented action with regard to helping and assisting the developing world. these new plans that we come forward with should not be about throwing out the baby with the bath water. it should be about building on the successes that were there, recognising the failures that had been made and ensuring that we can both chart an ambitious plan forward for a global recovery predicated on common goals of common values with a common course. that common course must at all times be based on the necessity of delivering better things for people, not better things for markets or better things for the economy. prime minister, you quoted michelangelo in your speech earlier on, and there is another good quote from an irish poet, oscar wilde, when he said: ‘we are all lying in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars’. and we can reach the stars now! this new crisis presents an opportunity. barack obama has rightly seen an opportunity to bring america back onto the world stage. the reality is that, compared with the marshall plan after the second world war, there is no big beast on the world stage today that can rescue the rest of the world economy. we are interdependent on each other in the challenges that attack us, but also in the solutions which we can arrive at. i think that, when we most need to chart this new way forward, of course we can speak about the carbon-neutral economy, the jobs created from that – this is very important – as well as retraining and reskilling, which are vitally important. social protection for those most in need is a necessity for development, but let us not be hung up on saying how much money a banker will get is the determining factor of what kind of a solution we come up with. better regulation, better supervision – but also better enforcement of those regulations – because, in a lot of cases with regard to the banking crisis, it was not about a lack of regulation but rather a lack of supervision and enforcement of the rules. i think one of the key elements that we now have to look for and chart out for the future is instilling not just the certainty with regard to how the markets will operate, the kind of shelters that would be got rid of, the elimination of tax havens and shadow banking, but let us also give some confidence back to people. let us show them that there is a way out of this crisis, that there is light at the end of the tunnel, but most importantly of all, let us show them that they are part of the solution. in the irish language we have a saying called meitheal – that is, people coming together, operating together to save the harvest. now is the time for us all to come together, not just to save this harvest, but to save the planet.
rapporteur. − mr president, can i say at the outset that i really do strongly object to the way members of parliament have their time shortened here. question time is not being heard this week, either by the council or the commission. people can come in here and speak at all sorts of great length. members of parliament introducing reports on behalf of parliament are shortened without notice. this is an outrageous imposition on meps. as rapporteur, i would first like to welcome president maystadt and president mirow to the chamber on this first time that parliament has drafted a report on the activities of the european investment bank (eib) and the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) concurrently. there can be no doubting the fact that the current financial crisis has highlighted the importance of the work of the eib and the ebrd. both banks are to be praised for their efforts in tackling the effects of the economic crisis. they are both facing up to the challenges presented, and i commend them for this. it is important that we consider both banks at the same time, so as to ensure better cooperation between them and the elimination of overlap. both banks should ensure that there is maximum synergy so as to prepare for and assist economic recovery. the decision to increase lending to small and medium-sized enterprises by 50% is particularly welcome. the initially planned eur 5 billion per year for sme lending has been increased to eur 7.5 billion per year over the four year period 2008-2011. an example of new funding is the eur 310 million approved recently by the eib for investment in smes in ireland. the eib has made it clear that more can be made available, and at very competitive interest rates, to irish smes and to other smes. in my view, europe needs to think in terms of a marshall aid-type plan, which worked so well after the second world war. if the eib could be persuaded to, say, borrow from china to invest in the bank, it could use such resources to help kick-start the economic recovery and bring this about sooner. this borrowing could be repaid by committing part of the extra customs duties that would be collected by the eu from renewed external trade and some of the new vat receipts to this objective. this would have the added benefit of taking the pressure off eu member states and their individual requirements to keep within the stability and growth pact in terms of additional borrowing. in 2007, eu inward investment in china was eur 7.16 billion, while china’s inward investment in the eu was only eur 0.6 billion. both the eu and china would benefit from increased trade. i am conscious of the visit to china by the president of the commission, the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the president of the european central bank before christmas. the recent eu-china follow-up summit is a welcome sign of hope. we got into a mess because we were not focusing on the issues. it is time to start focusing on recovery, including making the eu more competitive, as proposed by the lisbon treaty. i am very pleased about the proposals which are being made in the context of the energy crisis and climate control and, in particular, the role of the eib in this. i am also pleased that the recent decision of the court on codecision has been announced and that parliament will now have an enhanced role in relation to these two banks. i have proposed in my report – and it has been endorsed by the committee and i am sure will be endorsed by parliament – that the commission and the two banks should come before the committee on economic and monetary affairs on a regular basis to account for the coordination of the roles, and for the implementation of the policies, of both banks. i think this will be a very useful development. what we need is more transparency and more accountability. we heard prime minister brown talking about this in terms of the international financial crisis. we should be thinking about it in terms of accountability to this house for our own financial institutions and those that are part-funded by financial institutions. i welcome the general thrust of the intent of the banks, particularly in relation to climate control and energy, and i hope the house will support the main thrust of the report which i have brought forward.
rapporteur. − mr president, let me thank the commissioner and both presidents for their contributions and all the members of the house who contributed. let me make three brief points in response. the comments made by president maystadt that the eib’s additional financial support will allow quick disbursements and contribute to the real economy, notably by protecting good projects and helping viable companies in these difficult times, are very encouraging. it is my opinion that we need to support struggling companies as much as possible to provide them with the credit they need to keep their businesses afloat and to ensure that jobs are not lost. the report calls, however, for vigilance with regard to the use made of eib loans by commercial banks, and for a code of conduct between the commercial banks and the eib in this respect. i hope members would note that from some of the comments that were made. secondly, the current mood in europe is one of apprehension: housing prices continue to tumble in some countries and people are hoarding their savings. to combat the effect of this crunch, we must begin to talk about the recovery. we took our eye off the ball when it came to the crisis we are in. we are taking our eye off the ball again. recovery is coming: it may be at the end of this year or it may be next year, but it will come. we need to start talking about recovery and preparing for recovery and, in particular, being competitive enough to take advantage of recovery. i urge that on the three institutions represented here today and on the house. lastly, there is a need for the eib and the ebrd to work together with other international and regional financial institutions – such as the world bank, the asian development bank and the african development bank – in order to promote development in areas further afield from europe. these banks have a positive impact in delivering aid to developing countries, but i believe that this impact needs to be properly assessed. the financing of land ownership in developing countries needs to be looked at as an investment cost under the eib external lending mandate. i have raised this issue on a number of occasions. the country i come from experienced famine. we experienced all sorts of things that people in african countries are now experiencing. what changed the north-eastern part of our island was that people invested in universally small pieces of land. look at this model for the developing world. we need them as our future trading partners and i urge both banks to consider what i have said here, because i think that is a way to help the developing world. this is an issue raised here today only minutes ago by the prime minister of great britain, and i commend that particular point to both banks. thank you, mr president, for the opportunity to respond to this debate. i hope we will continue to go forward in an atmosphere of mutual cooperation for the benefit of europe.
in writing. – when creating aviation policy, safety must always be our primary concern. i commend the aims of this report to make aviation safer and more efficient for all involved. though we must take all steps to improve safety, we must help airports and air traffic authorities to comply. the development of a unified regulatory framework and the implementation of new technology will be expensive. regional airports may find it very hard to sustain the added costs of updating their systems. shannon airport in the west of ireland provides air traffic control for a large area of the north atlantic. however, as an airport which has lost many routes in the last decade, it may not have the funds for improvements. in the present economic environment it will not be easy to borrow for new equipment and training. to pass these costs on to the consumer may be a case of diminishing returns. i would suggest that, in order to ensure we make this transition to safer air travel, the commission ring fence funds to assist the process.
madam president, i welcome the revision of the novel food regulation, which must stimulate innovation in the food and drink industry. it must protect the functioning of the internal market and public health and, at the same time, facilitate market access for novel foods. however, i have some concerns generally about what i will call the scientific antipathy and distrust of this european parliament – and, indeed, of our national parliaments – which has become a matter of serious concern on a whole range of areas at this stage. we do not do justice to ourselves with emotive, hysterical or populist responses to the latest peer-reviewed scientific developments, and we do not do justice to our democratic mandate. when gm products, cloning and nanotechnology are mentioned in this house, then it is belt-and-braces and the answer is ‘no’; then, we slowly open up and delay authorisation. i am concerned with efsa, madam commissioner, and whether it has the resource capacity to process dossiers under this regulation in a timely but thorough way. if our embarrassing experience with the gm food and feed authorisations and rate of progress thereon are anything to go by, the answer must be ‘no’. why do we respond as if we are scientific illiterates on any new aspect of this area? why do we distrust peer-reviewed science to such an extent? have none of us, or very few of us, scientific backgrounds in this parliament at all? the same question can be asked of national parliaments. we must base legislation on thorough, serious science and accept that. if not, our credibility as legislators is in question.
madam president, on a point of order before i commence, as there does not appear to be anybody asking to speak under the ‘catch-the-eye’ procedure – i am subject to correction by you, but i have looked around and assessed the situation – could i add one minute of ‘catch-the-eye’ speaking time to my one-minute contribution, please?
madam president, additional measures for the protection of the ozone layer were adopted by the parties to the montreal protocol at their conference of the parties (cop) meeting in september 2007. these will now be incorporated in this recast regulation to accelerate the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances (ods) and to further limit exempted uses of these substances. this recast regulation is essentially about bans and restrictions on the production, import, export, placing on the market, use, recovery, recycling, reclamation and destruction of these ozone-depleting substances. the montreal protocol has been one of the most successful international environmental initiatives to date, with the result that the 1980s level of the depletion of the ozone layer has been largely reversed. due to the phase-outs on the use of these ozone-depleting gases – cfcs, hcfcs, halons, methyl bromide, with very few time-limited exceptions for certain ‘critical uses’, for example halons in fire-protection equipment in aeroplanes – there has been a 95% reduction in the consumption of ods compared to the 1980s. these substances, we must remind ourselves, also have a global-warming potential. the ozone layer is one of the two layers of the atmosphere that protect life on earth. specifically, the ozone layer provides protection from harmful ultraviolet radiation from the sun, which causes multiple illnesses and problems including skin cancer and cataracts.
mr president, in the midst of this economic crisis, a crisis conceived and driven by failed policy at member state and eu level, the protection of jobs and creation of new employment must be the absolute priority. the haemorrhage of jobs must be stopped. this will require proactive interventions by member state governments. free-market theology must not stand in the way of doing right by workers. the light-touch regulation of the financial markets was always a road to rip-off and corruption. obsessive deregulation and privatisation of public services will equally end in tears. so, is the common refrain that we must learn the lessons of this economic crisis genuine? that is the question. if it is, then the case for fundamental change in eu policy, and indeed eu treaties, is now unanswerable and should be the stuff of eu council deliberations. the lisbon treaty is old hat. it is a charter for the policies of failure. we need a new treaty for a new time.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liomsa tacaíocht a thabhairt agus comhghairdeachas a dhéanamh le cruinniú na gceannairí eorpacha a tháinig le chéile an tseachtain seo caite. maidir le héirinn, tá sé an-soiléir anois gurb é bun agus barr an scéil go dteastaíonn uainn tacaíocht a fháil ón aontas eorpach in éirinn. bhí ár n-eacnamaíocht láidir ach tá sí lagaithe, cosúil le heacnamaíochtaí an domhain i láthair na huaire. tá sé soiléir dúinn gur le chéile a thiocfaimid as an ngéarchéim seo agus gurb é an dúshlán is mó atá ag an eoraip i láthair na huaire ná cur le chéile agus an t-aonad eacnamaíochta sin atá againn a láidriú, sa chaoi go mbeimid in ann tacaíocht a thabhairt dá chéile – agus ní ag lagú an aontais, mar atá molta. tá sé soiléir freisin go bhfuil na bunrialacha atá leagtha síos i gconradh liospóin ag teastáil anois níos mó ná riamh. mar a deirimid in éirinn, sa seanfhocal: ‘ní neart go cur le chéile’.
mr president, my congratulations on your pronunciation of my rather difficult name! the conservatives here and in member states are like naughty children. having stamped their feet for years, demanding deregulation of banks and shadow banking, they are now prepared to swallow strong regulation – but only if we pretend that it was their idea all along. however, they are still childishly demanding deregulation of the workplace, flexibility – meaning no protection, no security and cuts in social services. that, my friends, is a recipe for fanning an uncontrollable forest fire. president in-office topolánek chose sweden as a comparison to america. why not the czech republic? why not ireland? simple: the irish government is tearing the heart out of health services, education, childcare and training. it is deepening the sense of insecurity in ireland, creating more unemployment – when they should be keeping people in work – and failing to do anything to help small companies to survive. i believe that there needs to be a change of government in ireland and a change of attitude in the european council. let us have an employment summit for all member states on 7 may.
madam president, i want to comment on amendment 9 to the resolution on cariforum and, indeed, amendment 4 to the resolution on côte d'ivoire. it appeared in the following six resolutions. the amendment calls for the phasing-out of export subsidies without delay. i could not support that amendment as our policy in the eu is to phase them out by 2013. right now the commission is increasing export refunds in the dairy sector because the world price for milk has fallen below the cost of production. the amendment also states that eu export subsidies represent a serious obstacle for acp producers in the agricultural livestock and dairy sector. we all know that this is a vast overstatement of the case. in fact, if we were to phase out all kinds of export subsidies without delay, we would decimate our own dairy industry and food security in this sector, and i seriously question if that is what parliament really wants to do.
madam president, i want to support the mitchell report, particularly where the rapporteur states the need for greater cooperation between the two banks to ensure that there is no overlap in their operation. but in particular i want to welcome the increase in lending by 50% to smes. the eur 5 billion that was initially announced is now set at eur 7.5 billion each year for a four-year period. the eib has signalled that more monies are available. this is very good news for smes in ireland because we can expect a eur 300 million investment over the following weeks in smes. it is crucial that the money finds its way to smes – that was mentioned by an earlier speaker – and as soon as possible because they are struggling and many of them cannot wait.
in writing. − it is incredibly important that the unique needs of every acp country are taken into account in epa agreements. for this reason, i have voted against this agreement. the cariforum epa has been discussed here, while the parliaments of the cariforum nations have not yet been allowed to discuss this. out of respect for these parliaments, i believe that we need to hold off on passing this resolution. it is also important to note that many acp governments were pressured by the european commission to sign the interim agreements before the expiry of the waiver. it is truly important that these issues be carefully considered and debated by each acp state before they are approved by the eu.
in writing. − it is incredibly important that the unique needs of every acp country are taken into account in epa agreements. for this reason, i have voted against this agreement. each acp country has different needs, and many would rather not negotiate about intellectual property rights and singapore issues. many of these nations also desire a strengthening of the provisions surrounding food security and infant industry. finally, these agreements are in need of a revision clause that would require an assessment of the sustainable development impact and the possibility to amend the agreement based on the findings of this assessment. we need to work to ensure that these agreements actually accomplish what is best for the needs of each of these nations and should avoid putting pressure on them to sign agreements that do not accomplish what is right for them.
madam president, feeding the hungry is a basic precept. we rightly talk about it in the context of third countries, but rarely acknowledge real hunger in europe. however, gnawing hunger and severe malnutrition deficiencies, even without actual hunger, is a reality even in the most prosperous member states. hunger in the midst of plenty is, and has always been, a scandal, and, in this report, we are trying to improve schemes to address it more effectively. as an impoverished mother, i had reason to be grateful for the free milk given to families of young children in the 1970s in ireland and for the low-cost milk my children received at school in the 1980s. i would like to add one suggestion though, but not within the cap. as a result of some of the policies in the common fisheries policy, thousands of tonnes of edible fish are dumped dead over the sides of fishing boats around our coasts. it is time we ended this waste. we should land these so-called ‘discards’ and give the fish to those who need it but cannot afford high-quality protein. it would be very hard to find a better and more nourishing food. commissioner, can you speak to the commissioner for fisheries on the extension of this scheme to include fish?
mr president, feeding the hungry is an essential duty and we have to find a way to see that no person, especially a child, goes to bed hungry. i abstained on this report, however, because i find changes in this scheme do not really make sense. to have a cap policy buying in food from third countries – whose poor people are already hungry – to feed our poor, while other cap policies prevent our farmers from growing enough food to feed the hungry of europe, simply does not make sense. we need to feed the poor, especially in this economic crisis, and i will be advocating changes to the scheme that will achieve this end.
in writing. − due to a conflict of interest, i abstained from all votes.
mr president, yes, the commissioner is right. the arctic is quite different in many ways from the antarctic, and it was only a few months ago, on 8 october 2008, that i spoke to this house on this very topic. the arctic, as i said then, plays an increasingly important geostrategic role in our world, and over the past decade several critical issues have emerged in this region. we are now faced with the opening of hitherto closed seaways, a direct result of climate change. this comes as no surprise, since the arctic is warming at a much faster rate, with an increase of two degrees in the last hundred years, compared to an average of just 0.6 degrees in the rest of the world. this highly vulnerable ecosystem is coming under increasing pressure from resource-hungry nations which wish to exploit its potential without having due regard to its fundamental importance as a stabilising force in the world’s climate. i agree with mrs wallis’s point that a call for a 50-year moratorium, however, on any exploitation is neither practical nor reasonable, but i think a limited moratorium on new exploitation – pending fresh scientific studies – is something all civilised nations could perhaps agree to. apart from this, the eu counts amongst its member states no less than three arctic nations along with two other eea neighbours, accounting for more than half the numeric membership of the arctic council. this is reason enough for us to be able to assert ourselves, in the best sense of that word, on the global stage on this issue. the arctic is critical for global climate, and for this reason alone we must be part of a new style of governance for this beautiful and – as the previous speaker said – one of the last wildernesses of our world.
in writing. – i am a socialist that means i believe that all human beings are equal. we need to fight discrimination wherever it is found not just in the workplace. indeed, there can be no hierarchy among discriminations. everybody is different, everybody is equal. the purpose of the directive is to implement the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation outside the labour market. it sets out a framework for the prohibition of discrimination on these grounds and establishes a uniform minimum level of protection within the european union for people who have suffered such discrimination. this proposal supplements the existing ec legal framework under which the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation applies only to employment, occupation and vocational training.
mr president, i too welcome this proposal because it is a direct and tangible response from the eu to the current economic crisis. we are responding using the instruments at our disposal, but i strongly agree with my colleague mr beaupuy when he says that we need to get our act together and do something quickly for families and communities. secondly, i welcome the simplification and flexibility introduced in this proposal. this is badly needed anyway. time and time again i hear from groups who access funding who are complaining about the red tape and the bureaucracy. while this package will not solve all their problems, it will help. thirdly, i am particularly pleased that the in-kind contributions are now recognised as eligible expenditure. in my report on the contribution of volunteering to economic and social cohesion, which was endorsed by this parliament, i called for this very measure to be put in place. this means that the contributions of volunteers and others will now be taken as contributing to the various projects and, while it has taken the current economic crisis to move us fully in this direction, nonetheless, it is most welcome. this measure will recognise in a practical way the contribution of volunteers and voluntary time and how it, too, can be part of our response to the current crisis. in this way we are working together with our citizens as partners. we know from the satellite accounts published by various member states that the not-for-profits sector accounts for between five and seven per cent of gdp. we are now recognising and valuing this and saying to our citizens: your efforts, your time, your commitment are important, and we are working with you.
madam president, i welcome the proposal for an amendment to the european region development fund (erdf) regulation to claim erdf funding for energy efficiency and renewable energy investments in housing. i would also like to welcome the amendment made to the original commission proposal eliminating the restriction of eligibility to low-income households, instead restricting eligibility to interventions that support social cohesion, leaving it to the discretion of the member state to determine the exact categories of eligible housing. but i have a specific question, if i may, to the commission. what do we mean by energy efficiency (and we are talking about it under the erdf funding)? will there be a harmonised method of calculating energy efficiency across the eu-27, or will there be different calculations and different considerations in the different member states? when we are talking energy efficiency and investment in energy efficiency in private housing, for example, will that mean what it means under the energy performance of buildings directive, which is currently under discussion at the moment and where there is a debate around a need for harmonised – or a single basis of – calculation, running the numbers, in fact, on energy efficiency to be sure that the investment is being spent on real energy efficiency or increasing energy efficiency or reducing co2 emissions issues? this is part of the debate that we had this morning at an sme union breakfast hosted by my colleague paul rübig, when we were told very clearly that there are bottlenecks in getting spending on energy efficiency throughout buildings: bottlenecks in finance due to the credit crunch for loans. we need to look at subsidies and various tax incentives. we need simple administration, so we encourage ordinary householders to avail themselves of these funds, whether erdf or member state funds. actually, as we speak, i must put on record that our government has recently launched the home energy saving retrofit grant scheme. but we need simple administration. we need promotion so that the investment will not only just reduce the import of fossil fuels and reduce carbon dioxide emissions, but so that the household will realise the reduction in energy costs to them also.
madam president, i welcome these new proposals. we are now living through times of crisis. we see huge job losses across the eu. today the latest unemployment figures were announced in ireland. the rate now stands at 11% – up from 5.4% only a year ago – more than a doubling of the rate in real terms. these figures are shocking and frightening. however, faced with this bleak vista, we must seek to find creative solutions to give those unemployed the skills, the prospects and the hope for a better future. the esf, the erdf and the cohesion fund can play a crucial role in this. by targeting this funding, we can retool our economies to drive out of recession. it behoves us all – as meps and as citizens – to bring this to the attention of the public, who are so fearful right now. it behoves us all to drive this message home to our national governments: that this funding be matched and deployed as quickly and efficiently as possible. i also welcome the reduction in the paperwork. it is a step in the right direction.
madam president, infrastructural development is crucial to our economic recovery. whereas in the past it was the construction of road and rail that helped stimulate economies in recession and lead the way to future prosperity, nowadays we must focus on our information and communications technology infrastructure as a driver of future growth. in this context, i wish to draw attention to the appalling situation in ireland of the so-called ‘digital divide’. due to years of government neglect in boom times, we are now left with broad areas of rural ireland with sub-standard, slow connections and, worst of all, in 28% of cases, without any access to broadband. how are we to bring prosperity and opportunity to our rural communities without bringing them the means of achieving these goals? how can we tell our young farmers that they cannot benefit from ict to develop their agri-business industries because we have not provided them with the connectivity? i welcome recent statements by the commission which detail the disbursement of eu funds to address this huge challenge. to conclude, we must not lose sight of eliminating the digital divide, even in the midst of economic crisis.
rapporteur. − mr president, could i start by thanking all my shadow rapporteurs, and indeed the french presidency for facilitating an early second-reading agreement? this is a rather technical proposal as it aims to update the existing eu regime, the main purpose of which is to protect public health by limiting the exposure of consumers of food of animal origin to residues of pharmacologically active substances present in veterinary medicines and biocidal products. this is achieved by setting safety thresholds or maximum residue levels (mrls) for approved substances and by banning substances which are either found to be unsafe or in respect of which a safety profile cannot be scientifically established. mrls alone do not protect consumers. consumers are directly protected by setting an appropriate withdrawal period before slaughter and by having controls in place to monitor it. in practice the withdrawal periods are set using a high safety factor which will reflect the amount of data available at the current stage of product development. we have reached an agreement on the key issues. first of all, extrapolation of mrls set for one species to another; secondly, adopting within the eu mrls set internationally within the codex alimentarius; and, thirdly, creating a framework setting mrls for food imported from third countries. we managed to clarify the measures which need to be taken when unauthorised substances are found either in eu-produced food or in food imported from third countries, as well as clarifying the basis for reviewing these reference points for action (rpas): that is, the maximum level established for control purposes for any unauthorised substance in the light of any new data. the question of setting mrls for certain biocidal products such as disinfectants used in the animal environment was also agreed on, particularly in regard to the financing aspects of their authorisation and their dossiers. the establishing of an mrl for a pharmacologically active substance requires an expensive data package of toxicology and metabolism studies. this is too costly for certain less common food species, so-called ‘minor species’, as the market for veterinary medicines for these is small – so-called ‘minor uses’. setting an mrl is the first step that must be accomplished before an application can be submitted to the regulatory authorities for authorisation of a veterinary medicine for a food-producing species containing a pharmacologically active substance. so this minor use/minor species (mums) issue is a problem urgently in need of resolution as it creates potential animal welfare and food safety issues. vets have a duty of care and will always try to treat a sick animal. under present legislation they are often forced to resort to unlicensed medicines. the lack of an mrl also prevents authorities from being able to establish a proper withdrawal period for a medicine. the current mrl regulation does not require mrls to be set for individual species. the european medicines agency’s committee for veterinary medicinal products (cvmp) sets mrls for individual species, following an initial cautious approach. in 1997 and following five years’ experience, the cvmp reviewed all the mrls that had been set and concluded that it was not necessary to set mrls for individual species as the mrls for a particular substance are nearly always similar or identical. that same year, the cvmp issued a guideline on the establishment of mrls for minor species. it defined minor food-producing species as all species except cattle, pigs and poultry, and they included salmonidae. it allowed the extrapolation from a major species to a minor species of the same family, ruminant to ruminant, fish to fish, chicken to other poultry. in 2008, after eight years’ experience, the cvmp issued a new guideline. the risk analysis approach for residues of veterinary medicinal products in food of animal origin. this describes a risk-based approach of extrapolation of an mrl for a substance from one or more species to additional species. this guideline allows the extrapolation of mrls from data on the three major species to all species, provided the mrls set for the three major species are similar or identical. the text of this review before us simply provides a legal basis for the current practice of extrapolation in the interests of veterinary medicines availability and animal welfare. two amendments specifically target the lack of availability of species-specific medicines for equidae (i must declare an interest) across a range of therapeutic and welfare needs, including the concept of ‘clinical benefit’ and not just the requirement that it is ‘essential’ to have a medicinal product added to the positive list of substance for equidae referred to in the veterinary medicines directive. in clearly defined circumstances, certain products used for equidae will not have to have mrls but will have to respect a six-month withdrawal period. perhaps there is a declaration – may i ask through the chair – that the commissioner is going to put on the record: i recall a discussion in relation to this issue some months ago concerning a review of the veterinary medicines directive.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like just to put on the record that there is one amendment which i cannot support as it would, in fact, create a legal impasse. if you cannot administer a drug under test to animals unless it already has an mrl, then you cannot carry out tests that are necessary to obtain the data to establish mrls and the withdrawal period in the first place. i would like to thank the commissioner for his cooperation in this area and put on the record the urgent need for review of the veterinary medicines directive. in a sense we are using this mrl review as a bit of a ‘patch and mend’ for a major problem that is under the radar but which we are all very aware of. the availability of an adequate range of veterinary medicines to treat the wide variety of animal species in the european community has been a growing challenge over the last two decades. during this period, considerable efforts have been made by various stakeholders, including regulators, industry and veterinarians, to address the problems of the availability of medicines. despite these efforts, the situation has continued to deteriorate. the lack of authorised medicines poses a real threat to animal health and welfare and the safety of consumers. it also raises significant problems for animal owners, farmers, veterinarians and governments if animals are untreated, or treated with an unauthorised or an unsuitable product – including the risk of zoonotic disease implications from untreated or inappropriately treated animals for the animal owners, consumers and citizens. there are also financial, legal and trade implications for the various stakeholders involved, whilst the lack of medicines may have negative effects on rural economies and agriculture generally. an example – and a most important point – is the effect on pollination as a consequence of reduced numbers of bee colonies. bees are a very important minor use/minor species (mums) issue. however, not only does the current availability problem in the eu have implications across the board for the health and welfare of animals, the security of the community’s food supply and public health, it also undermines the ability of the eu to meet the lisbon agenda and to reap the enormous potential for european agriculture and offshore aquaculture to attract research and development in the veterinary pharmaceutical field. thank you again to all colleagues and the commissioner for cooperation on this report.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur. climate change is one of the top priorities for europe, as well as for the rest of the world. we sometimes feel helpless as individuals against this massive global challenge but, at the end of the day, people need to be encouraged to do their bit, as little contributions such as the ‘power of one’ do add up. and the power of one is perhaps something we have not promoted enough. today we are voting on a voluntary scheme which certifies companies to label their products as environmentally friendly. this enables people to help the environment directly and to reduce emissions in their everyday living and buying. labelling is a clear and simple measure to promote energy efficiency, ethical production and development of greener technologies. also, from a health perspective, this scheme would protect people from potentially carcinogenic, mutagenic, reprotoxic or biocumulative products which can sometimes be traced in textiles. the scheme categorises products and services that range from tissue paper to footwear to campsites. it also provides means to reduce animal testing and child labour. i emphasise child labour because i was recently involved in a report in that area and i am very conscious of that. ireland and europe can benefit by further promoting and using the scheme. there are currently 13 companies in ireland, mostly from the accommodation sector, that are ecolabelled but we need to encourage further participation. and we also need a very serious information campaign sponsored by the european union.
mr president, i would like at the outset to congratulate both rapporteurs, ms mcavan and mr tatarella, on the emas and ecolabel reports respectively. these deal with very important areas of eco-management and ecolabelling, the whole area of reduction of waste, reduction of water use and hopefully the reduction of food waste. if i can be allowed to make particular mention of something which irritates me greatly: in the eu 30% of all food is actually wasted. so-called ‘best-before dates’ are often far too conservative, resulting in wanton waste through the discarding of otherwise perfectly edible products. this is part of labelling; let us sort it out and see where we are going on that. i also have increased reservations that, in our rush to better inform consumers’ choice, we may in fact have the opposite effect from that intended by the health claims directive, gm labelling, food information to consumers – that issue is yet to be resolved. and then there is the whole story surrounding ecolabelling. with everyone rushing for front-of-pack status – but even for the back – how will all this information, all worthy in its own right, be put on a product label in legible font and end up actually helping to inform the choice of joe and mary citizen? i have my concerns. if i may put on my hat as vice-chair of the committee on fisheries for the moment, i should like to put on the record what appear to be two parallel processes for the ecolabelling of fishery products. in 2005 the commission adopted a communication to launch the debate on a community approach regarding the ecolabelling programmes for fishery products. following this, in 2006 the european parliament adopted my colleague carmen fraga estévez’s report, which urged the commission to present a proposal for a community ecolabelling system for fishing products. in 2008 the maritime affairs and fisheries dg announced a proposal for a regulation for a community ecolabel for fishery products, the adoption of which was foreseen for march 2009. this proposal is still in the pipeline though i now believe we are promised it before the end of the year. in the mean time, the environment dg sent the european parliament a horizontal proposal on the community ecolabel scheme covering all products including fishing and aquaculture products, as well as processed agricultural products. despite the written protests of the chairs of both the committee on fisheries and the committee on agriculture and rural development, these committees were not involved. but i am pleased to acknowledge on the record today that only recently the council, parliament and the commission have agreed on a declaration on the way forward, which states that, independently of the adoption of the ecolabel regulation, the commission confirms it intends to propose a regulation on ecolabelling of fishery products before the end of the year. it continues that the study foreseen in article 6(5)(a) of the ecolabel regulation, dealing with additional aspects such as processing, pre-packaging, packaging and transport, which will examine the feasibility of the extension of the scope of the ecolabel regulation to food, including products of fishing and aquaculture, will not influence or pre-judge the adoption of this regulation. this declaration also clarifies that the ecolabel will be complementary to the specific fishery products regulation.
mr president, i rise to ask colleagues to consider the referral of this motion for a resolution back to committee. i do so on foot of what commissioner ferrero-waldner said here last night in the debate. i do not do so lightly, because i share the concerns of all colleagues who have spoken in this debate and as expressed in this resolution. but i would like to say, to be fair to the commissioner, that it is not our intent to cause her any problems at a critical stage in the negotiations she is having at the moment with the arctic council. she has specifically stated that ‘such a proposal would at this stage’ – and i am quoting from the transcript of what she said in plenary – ‘not only be ineffective, but could prove to be detrimental to the eu’s role and credibility in overall arctic cooperation’. in her conclusion, she specifically referred to the timing of our motion. the commission has submitted an application to the norwegian chair of the arctic council to extend the international convention on the law of the sea. that has to be accepted by unanimity, and the vote is on 29 april – in three or four weeks’ time. so she very clearly asked for a postponement, even though she fully shares our sentiments. on that basis, could i suggest we consider referring it back to committee?
mr president, i am not, first and foremost, a european union citizen. i am an irish citizen and, as a complementary adjunct to that, i am a european citizen. i have learned a lot here today. i did not realise our british colleagues were citizens. i thought they were subjects. but i have no difficulty with the words ‘subjects’ and ‘citizens’. you can be scottish, welsh or english, but you have to be scottish, welsh or english, or one of those people in ireland who take on the british citizenship, to be british. there is no such thing as a british citizen if you are not irish from northern ireland, scottish, welsh or english. i really do not understand the point that has been made here today. these are complementary adjuncts to our national citizenships and i certainly have no difficulty whatsoever with that. people are making a mountain out of a molehill because we are in the run-up to the elections, and are using this constant anti-european rhetoric to put forward their own interests rather than the interests of the countries they are supposed to serve.
mr president, i had concerns relating to the wording of the commission proposal – but no legislation is perfect. i voted for both parts of recital 17, amendment 28. it was my intention to vote for the original text, but i did not wish to vote against the amendment wording which, though not as strong as the original text in relation to rights of member states, did address my concerns sufficiently, and it was clear it would be overwhelmingly carried. i therefore would not have had the opportunity to vote for the original text, which would have fallen in those circumstances, i could, therefore, have appeared to vote against a principle, and that i did not wish to do. having examined the text in depth, i am satisfied that the proposal will serve to improve the access to goods and services for people with disabilities without making any unnecessary references to text that can be inferred as abortion. i firmly believe that it is vital to put in place mechanisms that allow the disabled to travel within the european union on an equal footing as every other citizen. europe has over 50 million disabled citizens, and it is therefore imperative that we make every measure to improve their well-being. it is for that reason that i voted for the report.
in writing. − i support this regulation which will allow faster and more efficient access to european funds in order to prevent unemployment and fight social exclusion during the crisis. the aim of the proposal is to add a further, simpler, method of spending the european social fund, so that its contribution to addressing the economic and social challenges facing europe during the crisis can be faster and more effective. the proposal is limited to introducing a simplification into the operations of the european social fund to encourage the effective, efficient and fast uptake of available resources, without compromising the principles of sound financial management.
in writing. − i support this report which modifies the european regional development fund in order to permit and facilitate energy efficiency and renewable energies interventions in the housing sector in all member states. interventions should target low-income households, as defined by the national legislation in force. indeed, i have proposed in ireland that vat on labour for such work should be reduced from 13.5% to 5% to encourage retention of jobs and demand for these renovations. the "european economic recovery plan" put as priority areas the lisbon strategy and energy (with a special attention of energy efficiency in buildings). therefore member states are encouraged to reprogramme their structural funds operational programmes in order to devote a better balance to energy efficiency investments, including where they fund social housing. under the current regulatory framework, european regional development fund supported interventions in the housing sector, including energy efficiency, but it was reserved only for member states acceded to the european union on or after 1 may 2004. the modification to the regulation seeks to permit and extend this possibility targeting low income households in all member states.
in writing. − the european parliament practises what it preaches in terms of eco-friendly behaviour! voluntarily, we have taken it upon ourselves to improve our environmental performance on a day-to-day basis. in february 2007, i personally asked the president to initiate emas in the parliament. today, we have voted in favour of the emas scheme, which requests other companies across the eu to do likewise. by reducing our environmental footprint in ways such as turning the lights off, smart metering, sensor lights, and less paper use, the european parliament works to be environmentally sound. as a result of an audit in parliament, we have received an emas logo. a yes vote today for the extension of emas means a yes for more environmental awareness in the member states. this plan looks to recognise and reward proactive organisations that go beyond what environmental laws expect of them and that are constantly improving the way they interact with the environment. now it is important to set a harmonised system throughout the european union with a single set of rules; ensuring the usefulness and exposure of this plan not only for buildings, but for the member states as well. for these reasons, it is essential to vote yes on this legislation.
in writing. − this report aims to protect those who are unjustly marginalised and ensure that they have proper and adequate means to address their situation. i was pleased to support it. it has broad support from social platforms and civil society. i am satisfied that it does not interfere with member states competences in the following domains:- education- access to religious institutions - matters of marital or family status - the relationship between church and state- the secular nature of the state and its institutions- the status of religious organisations and - the wearing of religious symbols at school. ireland had, until recently, a very active national consultative committee on racism and interculturalism (nccri) and a well funded equality authority. despite the importance of the work that these bodies were charged with, including, among other issues, equality proofing legislation, these bodies have ceased to be, given the drastic cuts in funding available to them. it is important that we continue to support these groups and their work. ms buitenweg’s report clearly demarks certain areas to remain part of the competency of each member state, but progress on a european scale is important to achieve a social and more just europe.
in writing. − this is a major report with important consequences for eu citizens. it is difficult to argue against the principle of equal treatment, yet this report has proven hugely contentious in this house, not just between groups, but indeed within political groups too. i voted against amendment 81 to totally reject this report. i have met with and been lobbied by many disability interest groups who asked for consideration of their position. the european disability forum, in particular strongly argues that we need eu legislation to protect people with disabilities against discrimination. at council many member states have also voiced concerns about the proposal. those concerns range from the legal base to be used, the scope of the proposal and fears that it may impinge on areas of national competence, such as education, social security and healthcare. we must also make clear that adoption and reproductive rights (including assisted human reproduction) are not within the scope of the directive. i voted against amendment 28 in order to secure the reference to national law on family or family status, including reproductive rights. this amendment was rejected by the house and therefore i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report specifically because it urges the commission to utilise current scientific evidence to protect eu citizens from the potential hazards of electromagnetic fields (emfs). the 1999 recommendation requires an update within five years of it being published that takes into account ongoing research. no update has taken place. i requested in my 2008 letter to commissioner kyprianou that the original recommendation be revised, as it was then four years overdue for revisions, but there have still been no updates. since the recommendation, we have seen scientific research and conclusions change and evolve as well as significant technological developments using emfs such as wifi and bluetooth. due to the ever-changing nature of this field, we need to re-evaluate the regulations protecting our citizens. a 2007 european survey indicates that the majority of eu citizens feel that public authorities have not done an adequate job of informing them on ways to protect themselves from emfs. the eu must take a stronger lead in gathering essential research on any possible harm from emfs and to recommend guidelines for its citizens. i support further research into the effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields on public health and hope that the 1999 recommendation will be reviewed and updated.
in writing. − i support this report which urges the commission to remain vigilant and undertake a review of the scientific basis and adequacy of emf limits through the scientific committee on emerging and newly identified health risks (scenihr). in this way consumers can continue to have a high level of protection without hampering the functioning and development of wireless technologies. electromagnetic fields (emf) are a matter of direct concern to eu citizens. a special euro barometer on emf indicated that europeans are divided in their concerns about the potential health risks of emf: 14 % not at all concerned, 35% not very concerned, 35% fairly concerned and 13% very concerned. several scientific studies on the matter have been published in recent years, however, none of them have provided clear evidence on possible effects of electromagnetic fields emitted by wireless technology on human health.
mr president, i would like to tell the commissioner that i too favour ‘may’ and not ‘shall’. i am a co-signatory as well. the whole culture of compliance with the common fisheries policy will not be established until we have equity and fairness at the centre of the inspection policy and of subsequent proceedings taken against our fishermen. we do need, as this regulation proposes – and as the rapporteur also says – community-level control and compliance which the needs of this situation reflects, while leaving ultimate responsibility to member states. at the moment it is appalling that fines range from eur 600 to eur 6 000 for similar offences in different member states. there is no respect at all for the common fisheries policy, which is commonly agreed to be a flawed instrument. we do not need this at the centre of it. on article 47, recreational fishing, i welcome the definition, which was missing in the draft proposal. we need a commonsense reaction. yes, member states can evaluate if there is serious impact on quotas of vulnerable stocks, but we should not let it be the rule of thumb. it must be the exception and not the rule. please move on discards – it is immoral and totally unacceptable that we are criminalising our fishermen. we must not encourage by-catches, but we must not criminalise fishermen for landing them either. get the balance right, please, commissioner borg.
mr president, i welcome these measures to encourage selective fishing practices, which minimise harm to the complex ecosystem in which the resources are found, while enabling responsible fishing to continue, and to maximise returns while minimising by-catches and subsequent discards. we must get to the point of banning discards as soon as possible, commissioner. the variety of the fishing grounds found in the eu is part of our strength, but consequently an additional complication when producing legislation that is adequate, responsive and coherent. each of the seas in europe has its own specificity, and it is important to recognise the level of knowledge and expertise that can be provided by the stakeholders on the ground and to resist the temptation to micro-manage on an eu level. as this is our last debate on fisheries in this political mandate, i would like to thank you, commissioner, and all your staff for your huge commitment and thorough knowledge of your brief and for the time and attention you always gave to the pech committee. you were always available for us. it has been much appreciated and noted and the comparison made with other commissioners’ availability.
rapporteur. − mr president, by its very nature this report contains a great deal of statistics. you can look at, read and analyse those, but obviously the work of the committee throughout the last 12 months is there on view. this committee that i sit on is a peculiar committee of parliament. it has very direct links with citizens and it deals with problems raised by individuals and groups. yes, people come to this committee with problems that we very often cannot solve, but at least they have a port to call on and, where cases are inadmissible, we try to redirect. we deal with many, many problems from across member states but, as the statistics show, some countries use the services of the committee more widely than others, perhaps because there are members of the committee who are from those countries and therefore they attract problems from their constituents. i am always fascinated by the reality, particularly in an irish context, that sometimes people complain that europe is too powerful and yet, when they have a problem and turn to europe for help, they sometimes complain that europe is not powerful enough. i think that is quite significant. the petitions committee works, in my view, on the basis of ‘soft power’ and i think the work of the last 12 months has been about trying to influence member states who are not implementing legislation in the manner that they should to change their ways. but we can only work by virtue of the people who come to us with problems and address them and their particular needs. i want to talk about some of the issues we dealt with, not in detail but just to give a flavour. obviously, the environment is the major area where complaints come to us from citizens of the european union. some of the major ones relate to water quality. the baltic sea issue was a very contentious one dealt with by the committee in harmony with other committees of the parliament. property rights are a very major concern for citizens and one that i fear will become increasingly so, if i judge by the complaints coming into my own constituency office from citizens who have purchased properties across member states of the european union. our powers in this regard are limited but this does not mean that we cannot speak on these matters and try and make improvements. in relation to business directories – where companies, individuals, schools, have been trapped into paying money to companies that publish names and then require payment, where people initially did not believe payment was necessary, or indeed required, or worse still, where people did not want the service at all – we are still inundated by individuals who are trapped and feel powerless to resist the pressures of these unscrupulous business directory companies. we have called for the commission to take action in this regard. we also stress in this report that we are concerned about the lack of progress on equitable life, on which the petitions committee did some work in 2007 and on which i chaired the committee of inquiry. we would urge the uk authorities to take on board all of our recommendations: apologise, yes, but also compensate those who were so severely affected. in my final few seconds, let me talk about the committee itself and the procedures under which we work. we would rather only admissible petitions came our way and we need to work very hard with citizens so that they know what we can and cannot deal with. i want the timeframe in which complaints are dealt with to be improved as we go forward. as one who has served on this committee in this parliamentary term, i believe that, because it deals directly with citizens, it has a great role to play in reducing what i discussed in a school in ireland yesterday, the so-called democratic deficit. at least people come here to the parliament and they are heard and listened to. i think that is extremely important. as we move to another year, let me thank the secretariat of the committee, the group staff and my own staff for their assistance in this report.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − madam president, i do not want to aim this at anybody in particular. i think that solvency ii, regulation and cras are all very relevant and very important, but we need to build a fire station as well as douse the flames. i think we have got too much into the detail of saying: oh, we are going to build this fire station at some time in the future. i cannot believe that, if president sarkozy were still president of the european council, we would still be going at the snail’s pace we are going at. the czech presidency is a great disappointment, and the president of the czech republic in particular is a great disappointment. i would say to you that if the czech presidency, or its successors, is not capable of doing the job, then it shows that we really do need lisbon: we really do need somebody on a more permanent basis to give leadership to the european union. people are looking for hope; they are looking for some information about recovery. does anybody in this house really believe that, if jacques delors were president of the commission, we would be going at this snail’s pace? it is time for action and for leadership, and we are not getting that action or leadership, and that is an issue that needs to be raised here this morning. the european investment bank could do much more. the european union and its institutions, together with countries like china, could do much more. this is not 1937. we did not have the institutions or the capability of addressing things that we have now. we do have those institutions now, within and outside the european union – a small number of institutions that can cooperate together. what we are missing is leadership. bring back president sarkozy, or somebody like sarkozy, and let us get the commission properly led, to give people hope and let us start talking about that recovery. i do not see this coming from the european council and it is time it did.
madam president, the global financial stability report of the imf estimates that the financial crisis will cost usd 4 billion. this is an estimate that may rise. this crisis has been brought about, as we all know, by a kind of casino capitalism, crony capitalism, and a financial services sector that has been subject to no regulation – or to light-touch regulation, as it is sometimes politely referred to. the fall-out of all of this for workers and families across europe has been nothing short of catastrophic. i have been struck in the debate and in the reports that have been produced by the very polite way in which we are addressing this scandal. i am struck by the fact that the liberal and christian democrat groups are concerned at over-prescription, or that protectionism may be introduced through the back door. the fact is that the eu response to the financial crisis has been sluggish and minimalist. the fact is that we do require a protectionism, and those that must be protected are workers and the real economy. we have yet to have a debate on the issue of jobs – although that is what matters for citizens – and this institution remains wedded to a system that has failed. let us acknowledge that and be radical and brave.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr skinner on this report. he has done an excellent job. it has been a huge undertaking but he has really delivered on this very complex piece of legislation. i would also like to congratulate the european institutions and member states, who have brought us this successful conclusion of solvency ii. it is a good example of how europe must work together towards financial recovery. burdens will be shared, as will solutions. this european approved response is a good example of a closer relationship on financial cooperation. we have to work to make sure that there is never again a banking crisis like the one we are going through at the moment. i did notice with great interest the commission’s approval of a mortgage support scheme for uk homeowners. this scheme will allow householders who are unable to meet their mortgage repayments to defer all their principal and up to 70% of their interest payments for a period of two years. we should carefully follow the progress of this scheme and learn from and implement any effective measures that would ease the burden we carry. i think this is something that all member states can look at, but i also think that financial institutions in member states themselves could make it easier for people to move to interest-only mortgages if they found themselves in difficulty. the financial institutions, considering the support that they have from member state governments, could do a lot to help people who are under stress because of the recession.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it sends a strong signal to the next parliament that the issue of illegal logging and deforestation must be dealt with more effectively. this proposal is long overdue. it is estimated that approximately 20%-40% of global industrial wood production comes from illegal sources, and up to 20% of this finds its way into the eu every year. this suppresses timber prices, strips natural resources and tax revenues, and increases the poverty of indigenous people all over the world. the long-term effects are even more serious, since deforestation, of which illegal logging is a major cause, accounts for nearly a fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions. the actual amendments in the lucas report say that it is an offence to have or sell illegal timber only if you have been negligent, reckless or deliberate – it does not penalise companies which have fulfilled their ‘due diligence’ obligations. so there is no absolute need to guarantee legality placed on the companies.
in writing. − i could not support today's reports, which basically back the european commission's drive to liberalise the electricity and gas markets. our own experience in ireland has shown how liberalisation and resulting privatisation have not provided solutions to any problems in the energy sector. energy prices in ireland have risen, affecting ordinary families and workers the most over the last few years. during this time of recession, the eu's drive to impose liberalisation in essential sectors of the economy makes less sense than ever. the commission and the eu must learn to stop trying the same old, failed, neo-liberal policies. i regret that the 'energy package' has won so much support among meps today.
in writing. − nuclear energy is a reality in europe. it is a reality that we in ireland are not comfortable with, but we accept the right of all countries to choose their own energy mix, and the fact that our neighbours utilise nuclear power means that we cannot afford to ignore the issue. just last week there was a serious safety breach in sellafield nuclear plant, and the storage facility for nuclear materials at sellafield – the b30 pond – is arguably one of the most serious problems facing the nuclear industry in europe. the b30 pond is home to serious amounts of nuclear materials that have not been adequately treated for decades. therefore, i support the proposal for an eu nuclear safety framework that will reinforce the independence of national regulators and ensure a high level of transparency on the safety of nuclear installations. i supported the amendments proposed to this report, which will further strengthen safety provisions and requirements. even if we do not have nuclear plants in ireland, our citizens could be affected by safety breaches elsewhere, and the eu must ensure that our citizens are protected to the highest level.
i scríbhinn. − caithfimid glacadh leis go bhfuil, agus go mbeidh, fuinneamh núicléach á ghiniúint san eoraip. in éirinn, ní mó ná compordach atáimid leis seo, ach tá meas againn ar cheart gach ballstáit a bhfoinsí fuinnimh féin a roghnú. chomh fada agus a bheas stáisiúin núicléacha sna tíortha atá comharsanach linn, ní féidir linn neamhaird a dhéanamh den cheist. bhí sárú slándála i sellafield an tseachtain seo caite agus tá áis stórála d'fhuíoll núicléach i sellafield – ar a dtugtar 'linn b30' – ar cheann de na fadhbanna is mó atá ann don earnáil núicléach san eoraip. tá méideanna ollmhóra fuíll núicléach, nach bhfuil cóireáil déanta air, á storáil i linn b30. mar sin, tugaim lántacaíocht don togra maidir le creat comhphobail um shábháilteacht núicléach a chinnteoidh go mbeidh leibhéal ard agus caighdeán trédhearcach sábháilteachta ann do stáisiúin núicléacha. vótáil mé ar son na leasuithe a bhí ag iarraidh ag togra seo a láidriú. cé nach bhfuil aon stáisiún núicléach againn in éirinn, is féidir le fadhbanna sábháilteachta i stáisiúin i dtíortha eile na heorpa tionchar a bheith acu ar mhuintir na héireann. is faoin aontas eorpach atá sé a chinntiú go bhfuil lánchosaint á thabhairt do shaoránaigh ár dtíortha sa mhéid seo.
i thank the commissioner for her helpful reply. the commissioner will be aware that i am speaking of a company called sr technics, located at dublin airport, where until recently a little over 1 100 people were employed; 600 have now lost their jobs. this was a company with excellent industrial relations, excellent skills, a full order book and a great future. there is real doubt as to the reasons for the relocation of this company and the suspicion is that either the swiss government or one of their arab friends has brought in aids which are causing these people to lose their jobs in ireland, in the european union. will the commissioner investigate this matter and use all her powers to assist? these are very reasonable people with a lot of support in the community who understand the difficulties they are facing both from the business community and from the general public.
member of the commission. − my expectations of the bonus programme itself are also high. that is why i am working extremely hard to get it on the table to propose to you while i am still in office. you should be aware that our experiences with article 169 initiatives, starting with edctp in the previous framework programme, were at times not too good. that is why we asked mr van velzen to prepare a report on that. by the way, today edctp is perfect and is going really well, but we had asked mr van velzen to table proposals for the future of ‘169’ initiatives, and we are now following his recommendations. one should also take into account that this is the first of an original nature and the true european added value should be presented via that kind of a programme. i am sure that this will be an example which will be followed later on by other regions. in short, i am very much in favour of the proposal, but i think that the stronger we build it the better it will be for bonus and for the region.
vice-president of the commission. − first of all, i would like to say that civil society is one of the key actors in democracy. it plays a very active role in european integration and fulfils an important function in the communication between european citizens and the institutions. civil society helps citizens in exerting their right to participate in the democratic life of the eu. the commission recognises the need to create a clearer access to the eu for organised civil society as well as for individual citizens and we have a long and healthy tradition of interaction with civil society organisations, which started more than 30 years ago. over the years, a large number of our services have developed regular dialogue with stakeholders. this dialogue takes into account our long-standing policy of openness and inclusiveness and it also reflects the wide differences in the policy fields and the diversity of stakeholders. the commission consults civil society in a variety of ways, including consultation papers, communications, advisory committees, expert groups, workshops and forums. online consultation is commonly used. moreover, we also organise ad hoc meetings and open hearings. in many cases, a consultation is a combination of different tools and takes place in several phases of the preparation of a policy proposal. there is a need for a common operational framework to ensure that these consultations are carried out in a transparent and coherent way. therefore, in 2002 the commission set out principles and minimum standards for consulting external parties. according to these standards, attention needs to be paid to providing clear consultation documents, consulting all relevant target groups, leaving sufficient time for participation, publishing results and providing feedback etc. the european transparency initiative has also made a commitment to further reinforce the application of the current minimum standards for consultation. a model template for open, public consultations has been introduced, including an invitation to stakeholder organisations to subscribe to the register of interest representatives. as such, they will be alerted to consultations published on the commission’s single access point for open consultation, your voice in europe. use of this template will improve the transparency and coherence of the presentation of stakeholder consultations. of course we need to constantly reflect on how to further promote awareness about the launching of a specific consultation, so that more people are aware of the fact that a consultation is beginning. we can probably use our representation offices more actively. let me add, finally, that the plan d initiatives, including citizens’ consultations, also provide new ideas for how to engage with citizens and to include also those who do not already belong to political parties or civil society organisations, so as to ensure that we really have an open consultation. we are trying out different methods of how to engage with citizens.
i thank the commissioner for her answer, and i agree: the commission is certainly making some efforts. but, given that 53% of european citizens are saying they are not interested in the european elections, i think one of the reasons for that is that many european citizens are not aware that they can effect change and have an impact through the consultation process: my experience from contact with stakeholders in civil society is that very many of them are simply unaware of this process. i myself make an effort every few months to alert stakeholders to the various consultation processes that are ongoing and i genuinely believe and would ask you, commissioner, if you do not agree that it would be very useful for the commission offices in each country to draw up a list, a very wide-ranging list, of all stakeholders and ensure that they are alerted to the consultation process, so that they would know and could take part.
vice-president of the commission. − i absolutely agree – 100%. this is what we just discussed this afternoon in the interinstitutional group for information and communication: encouraging our representation offices and the european houses – because in most capitals we share the same premises. we should use them as european houses, making it known to citizens when there is a consultation where they can give their views on the common agricultural policy or trade or environment policy. so i definitely share your views on doing even more to mobilise citizens. i also think that these experiments with things like the citizens’ consultations lead to greater interest in the eu. as one participant said: i took an interest in the eu when the eu showed an interest in me, asking me what i think. i believe that in the end we will also have better policies by asking and consulting citizens.
vice-president of the commission. − the commission supports and complements the communication efforts by the european parliament and national authorities and political parties by carrying out thematic, awareness-raising activities at both european and local levels. our objective is primarily to inform voters on the date and relevance of the elections, and thus encourage them to vote. special attention will be given to women and young people, with dedicated products and activities. amongst others, we will transmit tv and radio clips produced by parliament to illustrate the priority topics of the european elections on europe by satellite and eu tube. we will also assist in their dissemination through national, regional and local broadcasters in the member states. moreover, the commission is developing a multimedia campaign for young people in all member states and involving multipliers via on-line social media, blogs, and on-line magazines. all major web pages, for example europa, have the election logo and link to parliament’s elections website. but traditional publications including posters, postcards and outdoor installations are also being prepared. in member states, all of our representations have been mobilised to organised elections-linked activities and to mobilise all of our multipliers, and almost 500 europe direct information relays are organising events to disseminate promotional material and provide a discussion platform for candidates. finally, the europe direct contact centre provides free-of-charge factual information on eu-related questions from citizens and businesses in all 23 official languages by phone, e-mail and web assistance.
vice-president of the commission. − thank you for that follow-up question. rebuttal forms part of our regular activities at times, and it is also part of what our representation offices do. of course, candidates or different stakeholders can always turn to us to ask for factual information and to also provide replies to these kinds of statements being made. but i think the commission will probably play a role in providing factual information rather than being a party to the debate, which i think is for the political parties and for the candidates. but we will always try to offer factual information, and that is something that we do on a regular basis.
my supplementary question is very similar to mr martin’s, because one of the issues that i found very difficult during the lisbon treaty referendum was not being able to get factual information quickly enough to deal with some of the lies and misinformation that were being disseminated. i wonder would the commission consider – given that we are very close to the election at this point – making sure that there is a dedicated group or number of people within each member state with a particular telephone number etc. where candidates could immediately access the commission for information on particular issues like that. i know it is close to the elections, but i would ask the commissioner to seriously consider trying to put something like that in place.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to welcome commissioner mccreevy into the chamber and to thank all colleagues who are here this evening. the extension of copyright and the term of protection has been a long and arduous journey for all of us, in particular because a huge amount of people are not fully aware of all the facts associated with copyright. at the outset, let me put on the official record of the house my thanks to all of my colleagues, both those who support and those who oppose the proposal i am putting forward, for their contributions, their input and in particular for their helpful advice and guidance along the road. i should also like to thank the secretariat of the committee on legal affairs and in particular giorgio, who has been a very strong advocate and adviser with regard to all these areas, and, finally, commissioner mccreevy and all his staff. i would hate to name them individually, but the man sitting next to you has done trojan work with regard to this report and this directive. many lies have been told – and i use the word ‘lies’ guardedly with regard to what we are trying to do here. this can be condensed down very simply into four very clear areas. firstly, the extension of the term of protection from the present 50 years to a further extension of term. we are now proposing, as part of a compromise, 70 years. that proposal for compromise is founded on some of the resistance from the council of ministers, and it disappoints me that the council presidency is not represented here tonight. in fact, all during this process i feel the council presidency has not been too helpful in trying to bring this issue forward. at the outset of the czech presidency, i advised the prime minister, as well as the minister with responsibility and the officials from the czech presidency, that this could be a great success for the presidency as well as a success for this parliament. but other pressures came to bear upon them, and they have taken a disinterested or semi-detached attitude with regard to trying to find solutions. as well as that, other member states in the council of ministers have purposely tried to block and hinder progress in this process by putting in spurious claims and spurious amendments without actually looking at the detail or the content or even engaging properly with parliament to see how parliament could be flexible with regard to what needs to happen. but the second point with regard to what this directive is doing – and possibly the most important of all – is that for the first time it recognises the contribution of session musicians by establishing a fund to allow them to ensure that they have a return and remuneration for their work – which has been exploited by people over a long period of time – for which they may only get a one-off payment if they are lucky. this will ensure that those who are near the end of their playing careers or those who may have other economic issues with regard to them can get further protection from it. thirdly, with regard to the whole area of balancing the rights and the powers of those who are in negotiation between the record companies and the musicians, it gives extra rights to musicians and to others to ensure this can happen. fourthly, and most importantly of all, by ensuring that there is clarity with regard to how the law operates within the european union. many of my colleagues, particularly those from spain and other mediterranean countries, have put forward ideas with regard to the audiovisual sector, and we have tried to accommodate them by putting into the draft report this idea of having a separate directive to deal with the audiovisual sector, because it has different issues that relate to it and requires different solutions. likewise, as has been discovered during the course of our debates and discussions, there is a huge area with regard to the management of the collection societies and how they best represent the rights and the collection management of the monies that are due to artists to ensure that they can come towards them. finally, let me just say that people should realise that this is a creative right; this is something that an individual has created and has given to us; it is something that we should pay for – not an exorbitant amount, but a small amount. the idea of copyright today is seen to be thrown away at the wind – everybody can get everything for free. if we go down that road, in the short term it may be all great for us, but in the long term it will kill creativity, it will kill the opportunity for new musicians, new bands and new experiences to come before us all. in our audience tonight we have some musicians, some producers and, indeed, some interested parties. i would say to them that this is the first step that we see on the stage towards guaranteeing that artists and musicians can take more control of what their rights are. if we succeed in this first step, you can guarantee we can move on to the next steps towards everest.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i believe that the intention of this initiative was genuinely about improving the social situation of performers, as commissioner mccreevy and our colleague brian crowley have asserted, but it does not in fact achieve this. unfortunately, even the changes introduced by committee do not go far enough in improving the proposal. it is a proposal which, i believe, will ultimately reward those artists that are already successful, and indeed reward the industry. i am baffled at the notion of extending the term of copyright, whether it is to 70 years or 95 years, and i am baffled by it not just because it is dubious and almost out of step with the digital age but also because, quite clearly, a move like that will primarily benefit industrial interests and not struggling artists. i believe, notwithstanding all of the hard work and goodwill, that meps should reject this proposal. i think the commission needs to go back to the drawing board and come up with the right proposal, one that is not just about supporting performers and artists, but that in real and practical terms will deliver precisely that.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should again like to thank colleagues for their contributions to this debate. unfortunately, despite all our discussions, proposals, amendments and further re-amendments of amendments, and the changes that have taken place, some colleagues still have not grasped the way that this situation has moved on. i must say, on a very personal level, that i can appreciate everybody’s viewpoint and understand where they are coming from., it is difficult to do so when we get amendments from colleagues attached to which is an article in the financial times stating that we should vote against copyright, when at the bottom of that article it says ‘copyright protected’. even the financial times, which is opposed to copyright protection or extension, uses the copyright tool itself! likewise, i hear consumer organisations saying that it is wrong to extend copyright because this will interfere with consumers’ rights and consumer choices, again not realising or not giving credence to the fact that copyright already exists and that those rights and protection are already there. likewise, i hear colleagues mentioning the imposition that this will place on innovation and creativity, but how will people create anything if they cannot protect their rights? if they cannot protect their creations, how will they do that? likewise, people who speak about merchandising – or ‘mercantiling’, as was the translation – in the record industry should wake up and smell the coffee. this has been there since the year dot. before recorded music ever came into being, when you bought sheet music you had to pay a certain fee that went back to the creator of that music and every time it was performed the performer got a cut from it as well. so what we are talking about is putting balance and fairness into the argument, to ensure the rights of those who are weakest in contractual terms, who are weakest in enforcement terms and who are approaching the end of their musical careers, so that they can get protection and uses. it is important that people recognise that the advent of new technology – which we all welcome as it is fantastic – does not mean that you have the right to take something for nothing. when in the past you went into a record store and took a label’s cd or vinyl record and walked out with it you would be caught for shoplifting, and downloading music free of charge without paying a fee to somebody is equivalent to that. this is about allowing for proper mechanisms to be put in place. i want to thank jacques toubon, neena gill and all my colleagues for their help and assistance, and am particularly grateful to mr medina ortega for his useful guidance and advice in helping me out of a problem with the spanish side of things.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, since 1998 the european court of justice has determined that patients have the right to be reimbursed for health care received in another member state. this report, on the back of the draft proposal from the commissioner, clarifies how to apply the principles set out in those ecj cases. i welcome john bowis’s excellent report and his skilful resolution of the many legitimate concerns that were with the original draft proposal. the report is based on patients’ needs and not patients’ means. the definitions of hospital care and prior authorisation have been discussed and, i understand, agreed with council and commission. quality standards will remain a member state competence, while safety standards a european-wide one. one-stop-shop equivalent sources of patient information will be essential in every member state to allow informed choices by patients, and the provision of mutual recognition of prescriptions, i think, will be a very important add-on to this piece of legislation and must follow on quickly. while health services were initially included in the draft proposal of the bolkestein cross-border services proposal, it quickly became apparent that a stand-alone directive on this most important issue of health – which has ramifications for all aspects of health care in our 27 member states – was needed. patients will always prefer to receive health care close to where they live. currently, only one percent of our budgets are spent on cross-border health care. let us keep this in perspective. however, when circumstances dictate, it can be beneficial to receive health care in another eu country – notably in border regions, whereby the nearest health facility, for example, may be in another country, or where there is more expertise available, for example in the case of rare diseases, or a particular care or treatment could possibly be provided faster in another country. i must fully acknowledge that the general competence in health policy and financing of health policy remains, and will continue to remain, at member state level. i have one single point to make on the trakatellis report. there is a lot of concern and misinterpretation on amendment 15, and i welcome the opportunity that the split vote will allow to vote against the concept of ‘eradication’ of rare diseases, which has caused a lot of concern. i will, however, be supporting the rest of the amendment and the excellent work done by my colleague professor antonios trakatellis on rare diseases.
mr president, i wish to warmly welcome the report by my esteemed colleague, mr bowis, on patients’ rights to cross-border health care. i regret that mr bowis is not present with us in the house this morning, and i wish him a speedy recovery from his illness. it has been an honour for me to play my part in working to improve patients’ rights to cross-border health care. i myself am a beneficiary of cross-border health care. i was lucky enough to be able to afford to pay. now i want those who are not as lucky as i was to be able to benefit from the right to travel to receive health care without having to worry about costs, fully informed as to their rights and as to the quality of care they can expect to receive. the issue of patients’ rights to cross-border health care has been debated and promulgated through the european court of justice in the past number of years. it is thus timely and appropriate that we, the representatives of the people, define clearly and unequivocally for the people patients’ undeniable right to access high-quality health care, regardless of their means or their geographical location. we should also have the right to access high-quality health care close to home. however, we also need to recognise that this is not always possible, especially in the case of rare diseases, where treatment may not be available in the patient’s member state of affiliation. if we need to travel abroad for health care, we should not have to go through any uncertainty as to our ability to foot the bill for what is often expensive treatment. therefore, i am delighted that this uncertainty and confusion has been cleared up once and for all. once prior authorisation is given in normal circumstances, patients will be liable only for the cost of treatment above and beyond what it would have cost them should they have received the same or similar treatment at home. information about quality and standards of care in other member states is another important factor for those of us who may need to travel abroad for treatment. we have worked hard to ensure that this information will be available to patients should we have to or wish to travel for treatment. the national contact points proposed in this document are thus one of the key innovations and will play a huge role in helping and facilitating patient mobility. i welcome this report and i hope it will get through today.
mr president, a great deal of work has been done to ensure that people who are sick get the treatment they need, wherever they are, whoever they are. unfortunately, a great deal of work has also been done to ensure that they do not get that help. in this directive, prior authorisation by health authorities, rather than medical diagnosis, cuts out patients’ rights. it puts us back where we started. prior authorisation is the reason patients went to the european court in the first place, and the court’s judgments are the reason we are here today with a directive. now we are back where we started: death by geography will remain the rule. health authorities, like those in my own country, ireland, will again be able to deny authorisation to travel for treatment under this directive, just as they do under the current e112 that we set out to improve.
mr president, the provision and funding of affordable and quality health care is a responsibility of each member state. europe’s role is a coordinating role. there is, of course, a strong case for better coordination of our health services across the european union and in particular in border areas, but this directive cannot seek to do that. its purpose should be to ensure that a citizen’s right to health care in another member state is carefully framed, so that each member state’s capacity to fund and organise its domestic services is not undermined by health tourism. ms sinnott, i have to say, with her shroud-waving in this house today, is wrong as usual. no one in ireland has died as a result of being refused the right to travel to another member state for care – in fact, there is a fund available for those who need such care. ultimately, it is the medical needs of patients that matter, not consumer choice. prior authorisation and a due legal base are essential and, unless these are incorporated, i cannot support this directive.
in writing. – member states have a responsibility to their peoples to plan and deliver health care. health is not a commodity to be bought and sold on the internal market. this proposal is a disgrace. it shows the commission is blindly pursuing its discredited and obsolete liberalisation agenda. it just wants to privatise everything it can and to further centralise power in its own hands. it discriminates against less wealthy people in wealthy countries, and against all but the super-rich in less wealthy countries. it is a charter for the destruction of public health services in member states. the european commission should hang their heads in shame and should withdraw this proposal immediately.
rapporteur. − mr president, i do not think this can be added as an addition. it should be taken separately.
in writing. − i abstained as i am a member of the pension fund.
in writing. − we, as meps, are meant to represent and serve the people of europe. all of our constituents are suffering from the consequences of the economic crisis, especially in the loss and diminishment of their pensions. in my own constituency of munster, ireland, many workers face a very uncertain old age because the pensions that they have paid into have lost a great deal of value, or in some cases they have lost their pensions completely with the closure of their companies. in voting on this report, i am happy to declare that i have an interest, as parliament’s rules demand. as a member i pay into a pension fund. however, i do not see this as a conflict of interest. to me it seems unreasonable for meps to expect immunity, and we should equally bear the burden of the economic crisis. as an mep i uphold the citizens’ interests before my own.
in writing. − i am completely in favour of more stringent rules regarding financial activities and credit rating agencies. i did however choose to vote against the report by mr gauzès today. this is because the report is insufficient and does not put enough emphasis on the right issues. there is a strong need for public credit rating agencies which do not work for profit, since this is the only way to avoid conflicts of interests in the rating process. this question was not raised in the report in a satisfactory manner. this is only one example of the failings of this report.
in writing. − the european union has created a successful internal market with unprecedented movement of capital, services and people. however, creating this freedom of movement is not enough in itself. we must protect the citizens of eu countries as they travel throughout the union, and we must ensure equity of access to our transport services. we have seen the success of eu policies for passenger access and compensation rights in the air transport sector, and i warmly welcome the fact that the eu has come forward with similar proposals for other transport sectors. however, it is important that we respect at all times the specific nature of each different transport sector. while the same principles of rights and fair access and equivalent rights should hold for all forms of transport, we must take into account the characteristics of each one. otherwise we will fail both the passenger and the operator. i am happy that in this passenger rights package, covering sea, inland waterway and coach and bus transport, the european parliament has produced legislation that is fair and balanced and that will prove to be extremely effective in protecting and promoting the rights of passengers in the eu.
in writing. − i abstained on this report because i desperately want people to receive the treatment they urgently need. however, the issue of pre-authorisation is of concern to me. prior authorisation in this directive negates patients’ rights. it is the reason patients went to the courts in the first place, and those court judgments are the reason we are here today voting on cross-border health. by including pre-authorisation in this directive, we are back where we started. death by geography will remain the rule and patients will face the same obstacles as they do now when seeking authorisation to travel for treatment. i also deeply regret that this report fails to retain a legal basis that puts the health of patients first. instead it has been a wasted opportunity where the health of patients is used as a commodity for profit.
in writing. − i welcome the proposed initiative to improve healthcare for people suffering from rare diseases. due to the particular nature of diseases such as rare cancers, auto-immune diseases, toxic and infectious diseases, there is not enough expertise and resources available for them, yet nevertheless they affect 36 million eu citizens. strengthening cooperation between specialists and research centres across europe and information and service exchanges is a natural way for the european union to assist its citizens. it is a direct way of providing benefits to you. this proposal urges member states to set up new centres and training courses to maximise the potential of scientific resources on rare diseases and pool together existing research centres and disease information networks. i support these measures and encourage more member state cooperation, which will allow greater mobility for patients and experts to serve you, the citizen.
in writing. − there are many issues in this resolution which i support. however, i could not support the overall report because of the inclusion of issues which i believe to be, and indeed are, matters of subsidiarity – that is, the competence of the member state – and therefore not issues about which the european parliament should adopt a view. the subject of eugenic practices is one such subject which, through the adoption of amendment 15, was included in this resolution. i did not support amendment 15. this subject is a matter for subsidiarity, and not for the european union, which does not, and should not legislate on eugenic practices. so i could not support the overall report.
in writing. − i voted to support the 2007 discharge for the european commission, but i did so with some reservations. five years ago president barroso promised a clean bill of health before the end of his term, in terms of budgetary control and formal statements of assurance. despite some progress, there are still gaps in this process. thus far, 22 countries have submitted an annual summary, meeting the basic minimum requirements of financial regulation, but not all are satisfactory. only 8 countries have stepped up to the mark in providing a more formal analysis or statement of assurance, and sadly ireland is not one of them. we need to make sure that when it comes to the discharge of the 2008 budget, significantly more progress is made.
madam president, may i thank the minister for his reply. i think we are far too defensive in this house – and in institutions generally – when it comes to lisbon and the european union in general. it is time that we put some of the people who are attacking europe on the defensive. where would we be without the european central bank? where would we be – those of us who are in the euro zone – without the euro zone? the one thing we do not have is an identifiable head of the european council who can speak on matters of economic recovery, and i think it is clear that the provision in the lisbon treaty to provide for such a person is really essential. if we had that person in place now we would not have the zigzagging that goes on between the six-monthly presidencies. perhaps the minister might say in his reply what he sees as the prospects for the ratification of the treaty in the czech republic.
the president-in-office of the council. − i would like to stress first of all that the long-term objective is to find a solution in the form of a directive or a multilateral treaty. only then can we build this system in an effective way from the point of view of legal principles. the european commission proposes to tackle the most pressing problems arising in the context of the internal market through better coordination of member states' tax rules and better arbitration procedures. in its coordination communication 823 the european commission put forward a proposal to create a mechanism for the effective resolution of disputes relating to international double taxation in the european union and, given that there was, as the honourable member has mentioned, insufficient support from the member states, the european commission has abandoned this request in favour of other initiatives. the european commission is fully aware of the impact of double taxation treaties on the internal market and is therefore preparing to launch public consultations in 2009 and, on the basis of these, the european commission will draw up a communication on its findings proposing an appropriate approach to resolve the existing problems. the european council has repeatedly addressed this issue in various initiatives. first, by extending the framework of directive 90/435/ec on the common system of taxation applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries by means of council directive 2003/123/ec, which eliminates the economic and legal double taxation of cross-border flows of dividends within a community group. in 1990, an arbitration convention was adopted to avoid double taxation resulting from the adjustment of transfer prices between related companies. however, the convention has not proved to be very effective also because it has the character of an international treaty concluded between member states and not of a community legal instrument. in 2003, directive 2003/49/ec was adopted to eliminate double taxation of interest and royalties between associated companies from different member states, which only authorises the state of the beneficial owner of the income to tax that income. the issue of extending the scope of this directive should be the subject of further discussion within the council. following two commission communications on the coordination of member states' direct tax systems in the internal market and on exit taxation, ecofin adopted in december 2008 a council resolution on exit taxation which seeks to avoid double taxation and coordinates the state's exit tax policy in the sense that, when economic activities are transferred from one state to another, where assets of a natural or legal person from the state applying exit tax are transferred to the host state, the sale of the property should be treated as the market value of the property exchanged at the time of the transfer of the assets from the state of exit.
the president-in-office of the council. − madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, the european court of justice has ruled that the direct application of community law, freedom of movement and the principle of non-discrimination does not oblige member states to eliminate the legal double taxation that arises from the interaction of different tax systems in cross-border situations within the community. this position is reflected in the judgment of the european court of justice in kerckhaert, morres, case c-513/04. the court has already ruled on this matter and i am convinced that the space here is very small. according to the case law of the european court of justice, double taxation treaties must comply with the requirements of the internal market and, in particular, must not constitute discrimination or be incompatible with the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the treaty on european communities. on the other hand, i am convinced that the risk of double taxation is precisely what makes tax systems very complicated and makes life difficult, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which sometimes have great difficulty in penetrating the complexity of national legislation. it is smes that are more exposed to this risk, because smes have higher costs associated with not being able to hire expensive consultancy and law firms as well as large corporations, especially multinational corporations, and that is why they are more burdened by these complicated tax systems. i am personally deeply convinced that the right course is to have the simplest, most transparent system of direct taxation in all the member states, and i would add that the taxation should be as low as possible.
the president-in-office of the council. - madam president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the bureau would like to assure the honourable member that it attaches great importance to a high level of food safety and consumer protection within the community, whether food is produced locally or imported from third countries. in this context, the presidency would like to refer to the conclusions of the council meeting of 18 and 19 december 2008 on the safety of imported agricultural and food products. in accordance with community rules, the council in its conclusions invited the commission to submit to the council and the european parliament a report on the effectiveness and coherence of sanitary and phytosanitary controls on food imports by the end of 2010. as a result of its commitment to ensure a high level of human health protection in the implementation of community policies, the council in december 2008 rejected in the strongest terms the proposal for a council regulation implementing regulation (ec) no 853/2004 as regards the authorisation of antimicrobials for the surface treatment of poultry carcases submitted by the commission. the council considered that the use of these substances could possibly cover up poor hygiene practices. in its resolution of 19 june 2008, the european parliament expressed its disagreement with the commission proposal and called on the council to reject it. as regards the commission proposal on marketing standards for poultrymeat, the presidency would like to confirm that it is currently being discussed in the council with a view to ensuring a high level of consumer protection and preventing poultrymeat from being sold fresh if it has previously been frozen. the presidency can assure the honourable member that all measures are being taken to enable this regulation to be adopted swiftly once the european parliament has delivered its opinion.
i thank the presidency for that reply because it was indeed my understanding that the czech presidency was to take action in this matter. i am pleased to hear that it is being discussed within the council that you will take action to prevent poultry meat being frozen and subsequently sold as fresh, because of course it means that many eu producers – indeed all eu producers – are not operating on a level playing field. so i suppose my question to the presidency is: how soon can we expect some response from the council on this, and can you give us any indication as to what particular actions you might take in this matter?
following the bse crisis in the beef sector some years back, we brought in full identification and traceability for beef products in europe. would the council not agree that we need to move swiftly, not just on poultry but sheep and pigmeat as well, to give consumers the same information and indeed to provide the same traceability if something should go wrong? the sommer report on information to consumers is wending its way through parliament at the moment, and perhaps through added labelling – which would add to the traceability – the council might agree with me that this would be a way of achieving this.
i should like to thank the czech presidency for a fulsome response. i actually got it in writing earlier today because they did not think we would reach question 10. can i assume that really is the view of the czech government, as you have just put on the record, because it would certainly encourage me greatly if i thought so? i thank you, because it means the czech government has come a long way on climate change matters since the start of its presidency. apart from the council meeting in june, could you indicate the rest of the timetable for coming to an agreement on the so-called ‘fair share’ from the eu in financing third-country mitigation and adaptation? i fully agree with what you say, by the way, on the carbon market and its contribution.
madam president, i agree with all contributors that public health, food safety and hygiene have to be at the top of all our agendas. i would put very high on my agenda, too, making maximum use of all natural resources, including animal by-products. i should like to thank our rapporteur, horst schnellhardt, for his excellent work in accommodating all our concerns and also for the excellent outcome of his discussions with the european council. personally, i regret the removal of the reference to the waste incineration directive, but i do not have time to expand on that here. i had one amendment tabled asking for assurances that there should be a clear distinction made between animal by-products moved in large volumes between member states and at risk of entering the food or feed chain and specialist animal by-products for pharmaceutical and other diagnostic and research use; the latter are safe-sourced high-value products which are transported between member states in very small volumes to and from registered suppliers, processers and users. i should like confirmation, both from the commissioner and horst schnellhardt again in his winding-up words, that my concerns in this area are taken care of and that this particular use of animal by-products will continue without any disruption.
madam president, a vote was defeated because there was an equal number of votes just a couple of moments ago. a member has made a very serious allegation about voting in the chamber. i would ask you to halt proceedings until we find out whether there are members voting who should not be voting, or whether this allegation is false. it is a very serious allegation. (applause)
madam president, you did indeed deal with it very speedily, but i do think that it is not acceptable that a member should rise in his place and make such a serious allegation against other members of the house. i hold no support for the gentlemen of the extreme right, but the president of parliament must uphold and protect the rights of members. we are being accused of all sorts of outrageous things, and we are entitled to proper conduct and ethical behaviour by our colleagues here in this house, and indeed outside the house.
madam president, this is on the same issue in relation to the free vote. i do not have an objection in principle to the withholding tax system, but i do think we have to put down a marker that tax evasion is not acceptable. i agree with the comments that have been made about tax competition being a good thing. i think it is a good thing. i think anybody who looked at this independently would say it is a good thing. people often say, well, isn’t it easy for you – you have 12.5% corporation tax in ireland, and i say, well why don’t you have a 12.5% corporation tax in your country, if that is the problem? but there is an issue here, and we need to put down the marker about tax evasion. that is a criminal offence, and we really have to ensure that we do not become too close to those who practise these types of evasions. we have seen in the past where bad regulation and bad practice have brought the financial world. so in principle i am not opposed to the withholding tax, but i do want to put down the marker that we do need to do something more emphatic about the whole question of tax evasion.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, on behalf of my group i request that this package of reports be struck from the agenda of this session. i think that this house should show some measure of humility and some respect for the democratic process. we all know that ireland has rejected the lisbon treaty and so it is of some wonderment to me that this house persists in debating that matter. it is not democratically appropriate that this house should set aside the verdict of ireland or that this house should be used to ratchet up pressure on ireland in the coming months to adopt a treaty that is clearly not in our interests or in the interests of the european people. i remind members that ireland, and ireland alone, had a democratic vote on this treaty and, in the only place where it was put to a democratic decision, the people rejected it. i ask at this time, only weeks from the european elections, when the issue of the quality of our democracy is so crucial, that these reports be struck from the agenda and that we turn our attention rather to economic matters and the issue of unemployment – issues that really affect our citizens.
mr president, i would just like to respond to some of the criticism on ‘green’ light bulbs that has appeared again in the media, particularly the eurosceptic media, over this weekend. silence lends assent, so i would just like to say that energy-efficient light bulbs are not a danger to the public if properly handled by the consumer, by the householder, and if produced in a proper working environment where the health of the employees and the environment are both respected. the onus is on european multinationals that have light bulbs manufactured in places like china to ensure that they meet the standards of manufacture we would require if they were manufactured in the european union. the end product, the light bulb itself, is perfectly safe when used according to instructions, as safe as any existing light bulbs or batteries, for example, are today. they must be properly disposed of and handled according to the instructions. i think there is an agenda here – an anti-europe agenda – in relation to the manufacture of modern, greener, cleaner light bulbs, and i think we have to stand up to those who wish misinformation to be the order of the day on these most important products.
madam president, this has been a difficult debate, often emotional, with the heart ruling the head on many occasions. i have great sympathy with what my colleague christian rovsing has just said in terms of the communities he spoke for, but i will be supporting the compromise tomorrow. however, i need an assurance from the commissioner. perhaps i could ask a direct question through the chair to the commissioner. commissioner, if the compromise goes through tomorrow, could you assure me that it will still be possible to use seal tissue for medical research and for bioprosthetic purposes, as is currently the practice in parts of the world? for example, great progress has been made in the survival and quality of life of cardiac patients by using the aortic, pulmonary and pericardial tissue of harp seals, the assumption being that they are sustainably hunted or killed and not in a cruel way. i would like assurances on ongoing medical research and bioprosthetic use of products from seals in the context of the compromise.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the internet has changed the world as we know it. information that would have been difficult or impossible to find is now only seconds away, but the defining characteristic of the internet is not speed or technology; it is freedom: freedom to express opinions, freedom to exchange ideas and freedom to share information. some are advocating a restricted future, one where free movement of data is stemmed, where big business is allowed to stifle innovation, and where internet providers become gate-keepers. we have seen this approach before – in china. i hope we choose to retain the freedom that has brought such success and changed our world for the better. at a time when economies need all the help they can get, we need to choose openness for progress – not short-term protectionism for profit. on behalf of my constituents, i will vote for our freedom of information and our future free access to internet for all lawful use. in so doing, i will vote for democracy and an economy with opportunities for everyone.
madam president, this telecoms package is of very great interest to many citizens in my own country of ireland and indeed across the european union, and rightly so. as meps, i hope that we can send a strong message on behalf of those citizens that we are in favour of a free internet, where the privacy of users and their rights are respected fully. today we must stand behind the block of citizens’ amendments that have been tabled, as the best way of defending those rights of our citizens. these amendments, if passed, will restore some sort of balance between end users’ rights and freedoms and the rights and freedoms of others, including the right to intellectual property protection and indeed the right to privacy. the aim of this proposal should be to protect those who need protection, but also to strengthen the rights of citizens to access information within the law when and where they see fit. service providers should be made to act in a transparent manner at all times and, if in very exceptional cases restrictions to access are required, they should be fully accountable in justifying these restrictions. national powers should have a role in investigating any restriction that service providers impose. finally, i hope that this parliament will stand with our citizens this week in supporting the citizens’ amendment package, thereby standing in favour of the freedom of internet users and civil liberties across the union.
mr president, i was glad in the parish report on animal testing that amendment 170 passed. this prohibits the use of human embryos or foetal cells as an alternative to the use of animals in this directive, though there is little consolation for me that the amendment leaves the ethical decisions to the member state, as the irish government and courts have consistently refused to protect embryos and i have been assured that in ireland we also import aborted foetal cells for research. we have protected the seal and this is good. we have taken some measures towards limiting and reducing animal testing and we must go further, but at no time can we forget the principle that we cannot use human beings as a substitute for other forms of testing. we must reduce animal testing, but humans are still not to be seen as the alternative.
in writing. − there are any number of reasons why the commission proposal to exclude self-employed drivers from this directive had to be rejected. in voting to reject the commission proposal i voted in favour of safety on the roads, to rule out discrimination in terms of health and safety, pay and working conditions for drivers, and to ensure fair play for employers and employees in the road transport sector.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, a uachtaráin-in-oifig sa chomhairle agus a uachtaráin an choimisiúin, cuirfidh an cruinniú den chomhairle a bheidh ar siúl an mhí seo chugainn béim ar leith ar chúrsaí eacnamaíochta an aontais eorpaigh. caithfear tograí a chruthú a chuirfidh cúrsaí eacnamaíochta ar ais mar a bhí. caithfear na tograí nua seo a chur i gcrích láithreach agus cúrsaí eacnamaíochta a dhúiseacht arís. today, when we speak about the future of europe, 99% of the people we speak to, or we claim to speak to, do not care about the future of europe so much as their own future. they care about the economic situation and the uncertainty that is there at present. too often within this chamber, or even within the institutions of the european union, we seem to be stuck on getting one ideological fix over another ideological fix, rather than dealing with the real and exacting problems that people face. to that extent, i think we have already seen great leadership from the commission and from the council as regards their initial response to the economic crisis. decisive, quick action to put stability into the banking system; decisive, quick action to create a level of certainty and confidence within the operation of the markets within the european union; and, most importantly of all, ambition – an ambitious vision of what the future can be. not waiting to react or to respond to events elsewhere but leading the charge as to what will happen. rather than point the finger of blame at one commissioner or another commissioner, and rather than make party politics, as some have tried to with regard to this, we should be striving to come together collectively and chart a new way forward on how best we can respond. in doing that, we have to be innovative, we have to be creative, and, most importantly of all, we have to be honest with people as regards what we are capable of delivering and of doing. too often we tend to speak in sound bites and play to the gallery rather than dealing with the factual events that are before us. we have made mistakes in the past: to err is human, to forgive is divine, as the old saying goes. even more importantly, as the old saying goes, we may all be lying in the gutter, but some of us are reaching for the stars. that is the kind of ambition that we now need to ensure that we can lift up the economic situation within the european union, create new employment, new hope and new opportunities to ensure that the collective wisdom, the collective strength and the collective power that the european union now presents can be used as a force of good, not just within europe but around the world to set an example of what should happen. finally, i want to thank the present president-in-office, mr vondra, for his continuing contribution to this debate within the chamber, for the respect and courtesy he has shown us at all times and, despite the difficult political circumstances that exist at home, for continuing to deliver the programme for the czech presidency. in conclusion, i wish to say that when we fight these coming elections i do not have the luxury that other colleagues may have of being on a list. i have to go out and meet ordinary people every day and deal with their ordinary concerns. what they are worried about is their jobs, their mortgages and their children’s future, and that is what we should respond to.
madam president, could i suggest that those in this house from member states other than ireland who wish to speak for the irish people on the lisbon treaty put their names down on the ballot paper in ireland for the european elections! it is a matter for the irish people to decide whether we ratify the lisbon treaty or not. i hope we do, and i will work very hard to achieve that. i want ireland to remain at the heart of decision-making in europe. all those who are calling for a second irish ‘no’ are hoping that ireland can be used as a sledgehammer to begin the destruction of the european union. i will not stand for that. our history predisposes us to be cautious. it has also taught us that solidarity and power-sharing with other european states is the best guarantee of our sovereignty and the best guarantee of our prosperity. minister vondra, in his opening statement, made no reference to the social crisis we are facing at the moment. i would urge him to revise his line. we are in fact facing an economic, financial and social crisis: 27 million people and their families are facing total hell over the coming years. we cannot have a european union that ignores that.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i thank the rapporteurs for the tremendous amount of work they have done on these reports, coming, as we said in an earlier debate, at a very important time when people are looking for answers and looking for ideas on how to move forward. i suppose in many ways these can be divided up into four separate yet linked areas. firstly with regard to education and training, whether it is lifelong learning, the upskilling of existing skills or providing new skills to people. secondly, the whole area of innovation, and about looking to see where jobs are going to come from in the future and making sure people have the skills and the training for that. thirdly, the whole area of sustainability, with people who are already at work given protection and certain support now to make sure that they do not lose their jobs and then have to go through the cycle of retraining and upskilling in another year or two’s time to get another job; to maintain the existing jobs that are there. fourthly, to try and anticipate, if that is possible, where we need to move in the future. if colleagues think back to the early 1990s, when we had the whole delors plan with the white paper on the social package and so on, this was considered groundbreaking and innovative. it contained many difficult dossiers and many difficult ideas which many people in industry, in particular, were opposed to but also, uniquely, which a lot of people involved in trade unions were against as well. if our experience since 1994 can show us anything, it is that first of all we must ensure that all social policy is predicated on the basis of delivering results for people – not just merely massaging figures, but actually making people’s lives better. secondly, it shows that, no matter how good your training or education or skills may be, there are people who will be caught in unemployment, and they must be guaranteed a safety net and security to allow them to have a proper and decent standard of living. as well as that, as president barroso rightly mentioned himself, despite high employment participation levels in many countries in recent years, many people with disabilities, and 74% in total, were unemployed, despite the fact that they had access to education and training, because of the psychological barriers and blockage that existed. i am sorry for having gone on so long, but would like to sum up very briefly with the old saying ‘give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for life’.
madam president, i welcome the changes to the european globalisation adjustment fund. although reducing the number of redundancies needed to qualify for this fund from 1 000 to 500 is an improvement, the large number still discriminates against small countries and against workers who lose their jobs in smaller numbers. in my constituencies, those who have lost their jobs due to the closure of two companies – waterford crystal and dell – could qualify. that is very good, and i call on the irish government to immediately apply for funding on their behalf. however, thousands have lost their jobs because of global economic conditions and it is unfair that they are disqualified because they do not work for big multinationals but for small and medium-sized businesses. i suggest that we could make this scheme fairer by either abandoning the numerical criteria of 500 jobs or by looking at job loss by category or area, not company. this way, we could extend this funding to 500 workers who have lost their jobs across a sector like farming, food processing or it, or in a specific area, like tipperary, waterford, limerick, cork or kerry. a further obstacle for workers trying to access the globalisation fund is that it is only available to workers if their government is willing to apply for it and pay the national contribution. what happens to workers whose governments will not apply? in this i am thinking of the irish government, which has not applied for the fund so far. the very countries whose economies are hardest hit and which have the highest unemployment rates may be the countries that can least afford to pay the necessary contribution to help their workers, and yet they are the countries that need it the most.
madam president, no doubt he will be lobbying us too! it does not augur well that some member states do not want the employment summit this thursday. nor does it augur well for the future development of a social market economy that a minority of member states blocked a compromise on a revised working time directive last week. if europe’s commitment to a social market economy is real, we must integrate economic, social and environmental policies as equal elements of the whole package. the multiple crises we face right now will not be resolved simply by fixing up the banks with massive amounts of taxpayers’ savings to the exclusion of our citizens’ needs as social beings. it must go beyond the open method of coordination to coordinate policies on pensions, employment, education, health and, indeed, the caring services. however, some of our member states are clearly incapable of thinking outside the economic box, which considers social and environmental policy costly luxuries to be dropped as a restriction on the market. that must change urgently if we are to ensure progress towards our objective of a better society.
madam president, i warmly welcome the revision of the criteria governing the european globalisation adjustment fund. we are now at a time of deep economic crisis, the deepest since the end of the second world war. we therefore need innovative solutions to tackle the enormous economic problems we are faced with. the european globalisation adjustment fund is one such example. i was the first irish member of this house to identify the possibility to deploy these funds in the recent job crises in limerick, waterford and tralee, three important locations in my own constituency. i therefore welcome the work of the rapporteurs to make the criteria for application more flexible in the light of the economic crisis. special mention should be made of the new ratio of funding between the commission and member states, plus the temporary lowering of the threshold for unemployment from 1 000 to 500. i believe that these reforms will send a strong signal from the heart of europe to those unfortunate enough to be buffeted by the gale-force winds of economic crisis that there is help available to them to help themselves retrain and upskill their way to future prosperity.
could the commissioner please reassure the house that he is firmly committed to all direct taxation – income tax and corporation tax – being firmly left a member state competence? please confirm that is your view.
thank you, commissioner, for a very full reply. i have noted carefully what you have said. in the event that any of the projects which have been nominated specifically under the recovery plan are not in a position to draw down the funding by the deadline of 30 june 2010, will you have what i will refer to as a reserve list of projects that are ready to go, so that the money will actually go into this sector, to energy efficiency and low energy? in the solar thermal area, for example, they have major projects ready to start construction at the end of 2009 and early 2010; they have several projects ready to go. could we have a reserve list so that all this money is used in the event of those who have been allocated at the moment not being in a position to draw it down?
thank you to commissioner piebalgs for his response. commissioner, you have already pointed out in your response that there is a saving in economic terms because of the efficiency in energy, but now we need to move on to the next step. rather than just promoting sustainability and energy efficiency, we need to utilise the funds to create new ways of creating energy to make cities even more self-sufficient, rather than importing fuel or building nuclear power stations, as we were saying previously. we need to find cleverer and better ways, and maybe you might look in the future not just to the investment bank but to new ideas coming from the commission as well.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghlacadh leis an gcoimisinéir as ucht an fhreagra sin. ach ba mhaith liom ceist a chur – cé chomh dóchasach agus atá an coimisiún go mbeidh toradh ar an iarracht seo atá á dhéanamh acu i dtreo cheanada agus cé na pleananna díreach atá ag an gcoimisiún chun cosc a chuir ar an mbradaíocht ar an idirlíon agus ar an gcleachtas seo. mura bhfuil muid in ann é a stopadh le tír cosúil le ceanada, cén seans atá againn i gcásanna eile?
in writing. − this report improves the way the principle of equal treatment applies to self-employed workers and assisting spouses in the eu. however, ireland already provides that the spouses of self-employed persons may become self-employed prsi contributors in their own right if a commercial partnership between the spouses is demonstrated. a person may, for example, choose to pay voluntary contributions which allow them to remain insured once they leave the compulsory prsi system. social insurance is a matter of national competence and for this reason i voted against amendment 14. since this amendment to article 6 of the report was passed, i along with the rest of my irish colleagues in the epp-ed decided to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. − protecting animals from cruelty is a very important responsibility. however, some of the proposals put forward in order to prevent cruelty, i believe, will actually cause more cruelty. i particularly refer to the proposal to have all slaughter at slaughter facilities. famers would be forced to load and transport animals, even if they are sick or old, and such action would cause them pain and distress. this proposal also carries risks in terms of contagious disease and infection. sometimes it is better to contain sickness by slaughtering an animal on its own farm, as long as this is done in a humane manner. i did not make my oral explanation.
deputising for the author. – i would like to thank the czech presidency for the chairing of the committee and their views on this. as i asked one of your colleagues before, could i have assurances now, as we approach the critical meeting that will be the unfcc cop-15 in copenhagen this december, that we will have the enthusiastic support of the czech government for an adequate and fully equitable global agreement to reduce carbon emissions worldwide? you started your presidency with the reputation of being climate-sceptics. can you confirm now that you are converts and that you fully agree with the legislative climate and energy package that was passed overwhelmingly last december by this parliament?
thank you to the czech minister and congratulations through him to the leader and all the members of the czech senate. now both the upper and lower houses have voted to approve the ratification. you may look at me as an irish member of this house and say: is this the pot calling the kettle black? we have a job yet to do in ireland. the poles and the germans also have a bit of tidying up to do. but can i ask you to indicate when and if your president klaus is likely to accept the wishes of the upper and lower houses and approve – or sign off, if you like – the full ratification of the treaty? again, thank you. i am delighted with today’s result in your senate.
mr president, i welcome this debate. it seemed for a while that it might not happen. i am glad it is happening, and it is thanks to the persistence of my colleagues that it is taking place. it is entirely appropriate for this house to responsibly and sensibly address the transition for the possible ratification – finally – of the lisbon treaty. it would be foolish of us not to do so. i will be working hard in the latter part of this year to ensure there is a ‘yes’ vote – whether i am elected to this house or not – and i regret that a number of my friends are not going to be here, and will miss them. but i want, in particular, tonight to congratulate the czech republic for a ‘yes’ vote, because they have voted today for the future. i think that it is extremely important that we get this message across: that the unification of europe and the building of a united europe is about the future for the people of europe. nowhere else in the world outside of europe do we have 27 sovereign member states sharing decision-making on a cross-border basis in the common interests of their people. nowhere else do independent states submit their collective decisions for approval and amendment to a directly elected multinational parliament. this union of ours is unique. it is a unique democratic experiment. it is not without its faults. it needs reform, and indeed the reforms in the treaty of lisbon are the reforms on which we can agree at this point in time. no doubt future parliaments – and indeed future councils – will identify and agree further reforms. but europe also needs a new direction. it needs to reassert its commitment to the social well-being of our peoples and to rebalance the almost exclusive obsession with market liberalisation that we have had for the past decade. it must be borne in mind that the political and social and economic orientation of this union is driven by the choices made by the electorates: in general elections, in european elections and by the commissions that we collectively select and put in place. the european union is where we settle the disputes, where young men previously resolved them by killing each other in trenches. it is a great honour for me to participate in this parliament, where we have replaced the force of arms with the force of argument. we cannot let the eurosceptics turn the clock back. that the decision of one member state, representing less than 1% of the population of the union, could stop it in its tracks is a sign of how delicate our construction is. but it is also a sign of the strength of the union that we can survive and allow the peoples of europe to independently make these decisions. we must, i believe, try and reinfuse the dream of europe with our people. we have to avoid getting dragged down into the gutter by the angry old men who stand up at the backbenches up there on the far right and who scream at us and tell us how undemocratic we are, when in fact this is the parliament elected by the people of europe to make decisions for the people of europe.
mr president, it remains for me to be the last on the speakers’ list for the european people’s party/european democrats this evening, and as an irish mep i suppose there is some rationale to that. could i thank, first of all, all the rapporteurs of the five reports. i am delighted that we have the opportunity to discuss them and, like other irish colleagues, i have been requesting, through my political group, that we arrive at the situation we have here tonight where we can discuss five most important reports. at the outset, may i make it quite clear that what i say on this debate tonight is fully predicated in my next sentence. it would not be appropriate, nor is it intended to anticipate in any way or take for granted the decision of the irish people in the forthcoming second referendum on the lisbon treaty, which was announced only earlier this week by our taoiseach brian cowan td. the conclusions of last december’s european council contain a package of measures that arose from research following our referendum last june: measures to respond to the concerns of the irish ‘no’ voters as they were outlined by our taoiseach to the council meeting last december, along with a road map to enable the treaty to enter into force by the end of 2009. this package includes the retention of the principle of one commissioner per member state, confirmation of the importance the union attaches to workers’ rights and other social issues, and a series of legal guarantees on taxation neutrality and the provisions of the irish constitution in relation to the right to life, education and the family. at the spring european council our taoiseach informed partners that, in accordance with the timeline agreed in december, detailed work is now under way to give effect to these commitments and should be finished by mid-2009. if our government is fully satisfied with the outcome, the taoiseach has agreed to seek ratification of the treaty by the end of the term of the current commission, which is expected to leave office, i understand, at the end of october. i sincerely hope the promise of an early autumn referendum will mean early october at the very latest. and, given the increase in the european parliament’s powers envisaged in the treaty of lisbon, it is understandable that its members should consider the institutional and procedural implications of the treaty, hence tonight’s debate on the five reports. the european parliament’s consideration of these issues tonight takes place at a time when my script for tonight said four member states – ireland, the czech republic, germany and poland – had yet to complete their ratification process. technically that is true, but my congratulations this evening to the czech republic – to the czech senate particularly – for their parliament’s complete approval to allow, hopefully, their president to ratify the treaty on behalf of the czech people. i trust he will accept the will of their parliament. i understand it has been referred to a judicial review. i hope that is only a technical delay. for the treaty to enter into force, of course, all countries must ratify the treaty, and, yes it is correct to say that 26 european parliaments – 26 member state parliaments – have said ‘yes’, and so far the irish are the only ones yet to do so. i fully accept that parliament would wish to examine the issues raised in these papers and these reports in the fullest manner possible, without any interference in or pre-emption of the outstanding ratification procedure. can i say that i object to the opportunistic bleating of a few eurosceptic fossils in our back benches, and what they say should be recognised for what it is. my message to them is clear: butt out of an irish sovereign decision, because nobody will tell the irish electors what to do. may i thank you, as this is my last contribution in parliament, and all the presidency of parliament, the commission, the czech presidency and all colleagues for what has been an extremely rewarding 10 years for me as a member of the european parliament. i look forward to a ‘yes’ vote from the irish people in our second referendum in october.
mr president, it is nice to be first on anyone’s list these days. can i just, as avril has finished, wish her well as she retires from the european parliament. to be fair to her, she really gave the fossils a good whacking after the lisbon treaty vote in ireland, and will be well remembered for a fantastic turn of phrase. i wish you well, avril, publicly, and hope you will be involved in the ‘yes’ campaign for lisbon in your retirement. it has been a very interesting debate. my body and brain wanted to go home and sleep, but it has been too good to miss, and too important – because i am irish – not to be here. let me say this – and i speak to the electorate: you are in the driving seat. you have a choice. you can vote for the views of a few angry old men – and i say that of men and women, but mainly men – of the extremes in this parliament and the extremes in this european union, on the right and on the left, and you will get plenty of noise and plenty of colour photo opportunities and headlines, but there will be no work done in this house. or you can vote, in both the parliament elections and on lisbon, for positive people who work hard, who do not get headlines, but who are here for good purpose. i believe that the irish people know that the situation is different now. they were hoodwinked in the last debate. we have had a better discussion since the ‘no’ vote and i urge them to vote ‘yes’ for their future, for my children’s future and for the future of the european union.
mr president, i want to make a personal statement in relation to what mr martin just said. the irish parliament is not a ‘karaoke parliament’, and i object to it being described as such by that man. (applause)
mr president, the irish people will certainly be very foolish if they follow the sceptical wing of the british conservative party. i can assure mr hannan that the irish people will not – and have never – followed the sceptical wing of the british conservative party. its agenda is not even in the best interests of britain – it is in the best interests of the conservative party. it is a disgrace that a country that gave us winston churchill has sent these people to this parliament to put their own narrow interests before the interests of the british people and the interests of europe. it is strange to see these british conservatives bedfellows of the abstentionist sinn fein party, neither of whom have been in this house today or yesterday. they do not turn up to this house. they do not participate in the committees of the house. how they draw their salary and expenses, i do not know, but they told this house that to approve this and other reports was the worst thing to happen in this term, and then they do not even come here to vote. that is an absolute disgrace.
in writing. − i voted against the costa report on airport slots, in order to highlight the complete lack of consultation with airport authorities, the lack of debate with meps and the rushed nature of the legislation. this measure will onloy exacerbate problems in the aviation sector.
in writing. − this report on the annual report on human rights 2008 evaluates the state of human rights actions around the world and calls for improvements in some key areas. regarding amendment 2, while i disagree strongly with pope benedict’s quoted stance on the prophylactic use of condoms to prevent the spread of hiv/aids, i could not support this amendment because of the gratuitous and inaccurate drafting.
madam president, this parliament is dominated by a cynical grand coalition between the principal party of european capitalism, the epp, and the social democrats masquerading as a left but in reality implementing the same neo-liberal agenda of forcing working people to pay for the current crisis of international capitalism. now this grand coalition wants the lisbon treaty forced on the irish people and the people of europe because lisbon represents the neo-liberal agenda – including attacks on workers’ rights – and the enhancement of militarisation and the armaments industry. the so-called guarantees given to the irish people change nothing, mean nothing and are irrelevant. as an irish socialist, i challenge this coalition. i challenge president buzek, mr barroso, mr schulz, and mr verhofstadt: come to ireland in september, debate with us in front of audiences of workers why they should support your lisbon project, which is entirely hostile to their interests. bígí ag súil le feachtas láidir in aghaidh chonradh liospóin in éirinn. beimid ag caint do na milliúin eorpach nach raibh aon seans acu vótáil in aghaidh chonradh liospóin, nach bhfuil ar mhaithe le tromlach mhuintir na heorpa ach atá ar mhaithe leis an maorlathas, le corparáidí móra agus le tionscail mhíleata.
mr president we have only a minute so i shall dispense with the pleasantries. i should like to defend your honour against one of my irish colleagues, joe higgins. i would remind mr higgins that you, in your work in the solidarity movement, defended workers and their rights, and i think the historical facts should be reflected it in this house. a little bit of controversy is no bad thing but it is quite extraordinary that this morning we have nigel farage on the one side and sinn féin and joe higgins on the other side – the extremes of the right and left –talking against the lisbon treaty. i think that should be a good enough reason for the rest of us to vote ‘yes’ to the lisbon treaty and for irish voters, who will be making up their own minds on 2 october, to listen to the voices who are urging them to vote ‘no’ and to listen very carefully to judge what they stand for, and then to listen to the voices of reason and reflect on the fact that the european union has been very good for ireland and ireland good for it, and that we will continue to remain at the heart of europe by supporting this treaty.
mr president, we will not overcome the deep financial, economic and jobs crisis – or climate change – as independent, protectionist nation states. without europe and the euro we are sunk as a continent, but neither can we continue as a union as though nothing was wrong except a few greedy bankers: budgeting discipline will not solve the problem. the system is broken and must be deeply reformed. already the financial institutions are resisting the regulations we need to prevent a future meltdown. we need more integration of our social and economic and climate and energy policies, with the objective of job retention and creation with decent living and working conditions. we need a breakthrough in the climate change summit in december. we need, more than ever now, a recommitment to the millennium development goals and, more immediately, mr president-in-office, i regret you did not call for an immediate lifting of the siege of gaza or indicate any wish to re-energise the search for peace alongside president obama. as a member from ireland, i would like to remind the house that political irony is a trait much appreciated in ireland. jonathan swift, the author of gulliver’s travels, once proposed to the british government that the way of solving poverty in ireland was to encourage us to eat our babies. well, i do not think the historical irony of the united kingdom independence party proposing to come to ireland to campaign for the independence of the united kingdom from the european union will be lost on the people of ireland as a subject for a good belly laugh. it will be something to see mr nigel farage, dressed in his union jack and leprechaun hat, arm in arm with gerry adams, the former leader of the ira, and joe higgins, my colleague up here in the back, calling for a ‘no’ vote on the lisbon treaty, each with their own lemming-like contradictory agendas. i am confident the irish people will tell this particular circus what they told libertas: get lost! (applause)
a uachtaráin, is é an reifreann ar chonradh liospóin, a bheidh ar siúl in éirinn ar an dara lá de mhí dheireadh fómhair i mbliana, ceann de na himeachtaí is tábhachtaí do thréimhse uachtarántachta na sualainne. tá ráthaíochtaí dlíthiúla faighte ag éirinn i réimse polasaithe éagsúla agus tá sé seo ag cabhrú go mór le tabhairt faoin imní a bhí ar mhuintir na héireann sa reifreann an bhliain seo caite. anois, tá sé mar dhualgas orainn go léir a chreideann go mbeidh vóta i bhfábhar an chonartha chun leasa na héireann, an obair a dhéanamh leis an socrú nua seo a chur chun cinn i mo thírse. má éiríonn le conradh liospóin – agus tá súil agam go nglacfar leis an reifreann – beidh na tíortha éagsúla in ann ball a ainmniú don choimisiún. ní féidir leo siúd atá ar son an chonartha, ní féidir linn a bheith bogásach, nó complacent, in aon slí. ar ndóigh caithfear ár ndícheall a dhéanamh chun glacadh leis. [chuir an tuachtarán deireadh le caint an fheisire. ]
a uachtaráin, ós rud é gurb é seo mo chéad seans labhairt sa pharlaimint ba mhaith liom tosú i mo theanga dhúchais. mar is eol daoibh, tá an feachtas do reifreann liospóin faoi lánseol faoi láthair in éirinn agus táimid dóchasach go mbeidh an toradh dearfach ar an dara lá de dheireadh fómhair. ceann de na rudaí atá ag déanamh difríocht mhór an uair seo ná na ráthaíochtaí atá tugtha ag an aontas eorpach do rialtas na héireann maidir le cáin, ginmhilleadh agus cosaint. chomh maith leis sin agus níor luadh é in aon chor an uair dheireanach tá an inniúlacht nua don spórt i gconradh liospóin an-tábhachtach. as one who has been involved in sport all my life at different levels of playing and administration, i believe that the possibility under lisbon of the eu taking sports seriously and supporting both indigenous and international sports has struck a chord with the irish sporting public. for that reason, and for the other more obvious reasons such as the health, social and physical benefits of sport, it is imperative that substantial funding is provided post-lisbon to…(the president cut off the speaker. )
mr president, i just want to say very briefly that an erroneous and somewhat condescending statement was made this evening about the lisbon treaty in ireland by a british colleague. ireland has not been forced by anybody to vote a second time on lisbon. it was a decision taken independently by the irish parliament and will be carried out independently by the irish people. in fact we have not been forced to do anything since we gained our independence from britain in 1922.
mr president, i was listening to this debate in my office. obviously and thankfully, in ireland we do not experience the severity of the fires that our southern european colleagues do. two thoughts struck me. one is that in this house we tend to speak only on those issues that directly affect our own countries and, given that we are having a debate in ireland on the lisbon treaty – where we are talking about solidarity across the european union – i think it is a habit we should break. i think more of us should speak about issues of concern in other member states that we know of, so that there is a sense in which there is greater solidarity among members of this house regarding the concerns of their citizens. i would, for example, like other people to take up concerns that might arise in ireland for my citizens. i think it would help us to promote the idea that europe works for all and that we are not just looking after our own. that has been one of the failures of the european union, and it is something we are grappling with in the debate on the lisbon treaty. let me support what you are doing here and express my solidarity for the problems in southern europe. deal with those who deliberately destroy. look at prevention. much more must be done by management and, lastly, the solidarity funds should be released to those who need them.
mr president, just very briefly, this is all new to me and i found the discussion very stimulating and educational. when lady ashton first spoke i thought this was a fantastic deal for the european union and i wondered if there were any benefits in it for korea. then speaker after speaker gave the opposite view, so i hope that the questions put and the points made by mr arif, mr theurer, mr campbell bannerman and other speakers could be answered specifically by lady ashton when she replies and also she might tell us if there are any other negotiations going on right now with specific asian countries for bilateral agreement and also how far they have progressed.
in writing. − the fine gael members of the epp group voted in favour of draft amending budget no 8/2009. we note that this vote includes the creation of a budget item to provide supplementary funding to the high flux reactor (hfr) at petten, netherlands. originally the facility was set up to evaluate materials used in fusion and fission reactors. it has become an indispensible facility for the production of radioisotopes for the medical sectors, covering some 60% of european demand. the report also provides support for, among other things, a strengthened budget to eradicate the bluetongue disease and assistance with european policing and anti-fraud. on balance, given the nature of the hfr and the mix of budget items covered, the fine gael delegation voted to support draft amending budget no 8/2009.
mr president, i opposed the nomination of mr barroso as president of the commission. mr barroso is using the eu commission to interfere with the democratic right of the irish people to freely decide to accept or reject the lisbon treaty in a referendum on 2 october. with great cynicism his commission has sent employees of the commission into schools all over ireland in recent days to speak, supposedly, of how good the commission of the european union is – in reality a signal to their parents that they should vote ‘yes’ for lisbon. moreover, a senior civil servant of the commission has openly participated in public rallies of organisations campaigning for the lisbon treaty. like caesar augustus, mr barroso is sending his emissaries to tell the irish people what they should do. we will embark on democratic debate with anybody, but it is a gross abuse of taxpayers’ funds that civil servants should intervene on one side of this debate. níl na polasaithe de chuid an uasail barroso ar mhaithe ar chor ar bith le lucht oibre na heorpa ná níl conradh liospóin ar mhaithe le lucht hoibre na heorpa ach tá sé ag cur an míleatachas agus an príobháidiú chun cinn agus de bhrí sin ní ghlacfaimid ar chor bith leis an uasal barroso mar uachtarán as seo amach.
mr president, i just want to clarify that ireland is not having to vote again because someone has said so: the irish people are voting again because they have decided to do so of their own accord, and they will take their own decision. secondly, the vote now is different to the last time. we have guarantees that clarify matters for the irish people, and we also have a guarantee that we can keep our commissioner. (the president cut off the speaker.)
president-designate of the commission. − mr president, i will start with issues of policy, then politics if i have the time. regarding mr hughes’ questions, i think it is important to clarify those issues that are very important for your group and for me, and for our commitment to a social market economy. on the posting of workers, my commitment to a regulation is intended to address the very problem you highlighted, mr hughes. the implementation and interpretation issues that have created uncertainty are the problem. i remind you that a regulation is directly applicable and will take less time than overall revision of the directive. in any case, i have said that, if necessary, we can look at revising the directive. on laval, commissioner špidla, a member of your socialist family, has, in agreement with me, conducted a very complete search for practical solutions. you must be aware that the problems you raised do not arise in all member states. the diversity of labour law in the member states means that a laval situation can arise in some member states but not in others. you, of all people, know that member states, social partners and trade unions stick to their labour law acquis. we needed to fully assess the situation to make sure that the remedy was not going to create a bigger problem than the one it set out to solve. mr špidla has carried out that analysis, and that is why i can now propose a solution, trying to get a broad agreement in this parliament. on public services, mr hughes asked why the commission has not yet proposed a framework directive. i will point out that my commission has done very important legal work on clarifying the application of state aid rules to public services. that was the most important issue five years ago, and the truth is that these clarifications have taken much of the heat out of the age-old debate on public services in the internal market. i did not say that there are no more problems. on the contrary, i recognise them. i am committed to completely assessing the situation and i will not hesitate, if necessary, to go further. i have made an honest and loyal offer in discussions with your group, and i look forward to working on it with you, including on the appropriate legal instruments. on gender balance, i am committed to this and my commission has a record number of women. i can tell you very frankly that it was a very hard fight to get some member states to send competent women to the commission because they did not want to send women. as you know, the initiative on that comes from the member states. i am committed to doing my best once again. i remember the first delors commission had no women and the second had only one. at one time i had nine women members of the commission, which i believe is very important. i nominated the first woman ever as secretary-general – the most important civil servant in the commission – so i am very committed to that issue and i need your support there. but, once again, please also work with your member states so that they do not resort to this routine, because for 50 years some member states were incapable of making one single proposal for a woman for the commission. regarding the issue of social matters, let us put this bluntly. if you want to attack the caricature of mr barroso, then do so, but you know very well that i have often made proposals that were refused by the council – including, by the way, some governments from your family. let us be honest about it. at the last european council, i proposed that we no longer have cofinancing for the social fund for those countries that do not have this possibility, namely the new member states that are having difficulties. i made that proposal. it was refused by several governments, including some whose leadership, or whose finance minister, is from your party. so i completely disagree. it is not intellectually honest to attack the commission all the time. you are missing the target. it is easier for you, but the reality is that we are pushing hard. after that council, i put a proposal on the table – that is now being considered by the council – to suspend the social fund cofinancing rules for countries that are in difficulties. i am committed to social cohesion. how could i not be committed, coming from a country like portugal that benefits so much from the european union? i am committed to social and economic cohesion, and that is why i believe this caricature that some try to present is damaging europe. i agree with what mr lambsdorff said before. i would prefer to have the support of the main pro-european political families, but some are excluding themselves from that. that is your choice, not mine. i want to bring the broadest possible consensus and exclude nobody. let us be frank: in the history of european integration, it is not only the epp, not only the socialists, not only the liberals, who have made great contributions. from lord cockfield, a conservative, to a communist like altiero spinelli, to the green movement, there have been many contributions to our european integration. after the election, and with this diversity of views, it is important that we work together for europe. we need a strong europe, but there is a contradiction there. on the one hand, you say that you want a strong europe, you want a strong commission, you want me to stand up to some member states that are going national, but at the same time you say ‘we are not going to vote for you. we are going to reduce your influence. we are going to weaken you in front of the member states'. there is a contradiction there, so let us be honest about it. if you want a strong commission that has all the rights and initiative to defend european interests, at least give me the benefit of the doubt. we are living in difficult times and i have made an honest offer to you, a loyal offer to all members of the parliament, in full transparency. you cannot say that i am saying different things to different groups because this is the same programme i am presenting to all of you. today i have added some complements and clarifications, but it is the same programme. of course it is a compromise, but europe only works as a compromise. europe cannot work on fanaticism, or on dogmatism. i thank the epp for the support it has given me. i am really grateful for the support you have given me, but the epp was the first to say that they do not want this because it is alone. no party has a majority alone, so we have to build a consensus in europe. building this consensus in europe is critically important. of course we keep our ideological differences and keep up the political debate, but we make an effort to have a stronger europe. i am committed to that. are you? that is my question.
mr president, mr barroso did not reply to my charge of interference by the commission in the democratic process in ireland on the lisbon treaty... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would first of all like to wish mr barroso well for tomorrow in the vote. unfortunately, i was of the opinion that the vote should have been held in july so as not to allow a lacuna of uncertainty to develop. however, in saying that, i think the political guidelines which you have produced, mr barroso, clearly outline the kind of vision and ideas that you have for getting things back on the road. maybe my biggest appeal to you – not only about coming back to parliament – would also be to be a bit more critical of governments when they fail to live up to their commitments. because, even if we look at the lisbon strategy, 90% of the lisbon strategy has failed to be implemented because member states have failed to take action to make us the most competitive and the most dynamic economy of the future. i know it is difficult to try and pinpoint any one individual state. i would not dare to do so, but if we are leading by example, and, if we are putting down ideas between parliament and the commission about the ways we can see of regenerating new growth and about being innovative within the new economy, then the member states must also step up to the plate and take those actions. finally, it saddens me, at a time when there are unprecedented economic difficulties throughout the globe, when we in europe are seen to take the lead with regard to banking regulation and other areas like that, that we have lost the opportunity because of juvenile political games among certain groups.
madam president, i am very confident that mr barroso will tomorrow secure another five-year mandate as the next president of the commission. i believe he is the right person for the job and his track record has been impressive. i also believe that the eu will operate more effectively if the lisbon treaty is passed in my country. those opposing the treaty in ireland are spreading scurrilous information about the minimum wage to be eur 1.84. people speak of the green shoots as part of the economic recovery in europe. the ratification of the lisbon treaty is a green shoot in itself. the investment community and people who create jobs want the lisbon treaty enacted. the fact that we in ireland, since the last referendum, have secured the right to nominate one member of the european commission into the future is a serious change. in addition to that, the legal guarantees relating to neutrality, tax, the right to life, education and the family are important. these guarantees are important to us. protocols are the same as the treaty and of course ireland needs europe; europe needs ireland. guím gach rath dé ort amárach.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner dimas for his answer. very briefly, do we know what the real position of the united states of america is, now that there is a new administration, and are they using the same reduction figures that the eu is proposing? secondly, with regard to brazil, russia, india and china, which are huge producers of co2 emissions and other emissions, what role will they play, and what pressures can we in the european union put on them to meet the same standards that we are demanding of our own?
a simple question: how does the commission suggest that member states should balance the increased use of renewables with the need to keep electricity prices low for competitive purposes?
i know that human rights are a high priority, and i am at a loss to understand why the european union, which prides itself on being the champion of human rights in the world, should even contemplate a trade agreement with a regime like that of colombia. twenty-seven trade unionists have been murdered since the beginning of january 2009. this figure speaks for itself, and it has been proven in the past that the way to get the message across is to hurt these countries economically, as happened in the case of the sanctions against south africa. i genuinely believe that we should be sending a delegation to colombia to see the actual situation at first hand, rather than holding a dialogue with them. we should have people out there on the ground, and we should suspend any trade negotiations with colombia until such time as we are assured that human rights there are on a par with the rest of the world.
can i ask the commissioner if she would consider a thorough and full examination of the food promotion budget? it has been in operation since the 1970s, is very restrictive and needs to be reformed. furthermore, would the commissioner agree that improving the competitiveness of the european union food sector will help the european union pull itself out of the economic recession?
it is well known that european beef and lamb products comply with the highest standards. what measures is the commission taking, if any, to encourage or demand that similar standards apply to trading partners, particularly in brazil?
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? i have the honor of answering a question from marian harkin. the council shares the mep's concern about animal welfare. the regular submission of proposals by the commission has led to the progressive establishment of a considerable body of community legislation in this field. the swedish presidency aims to maintain the debate on animal welfare and good animal husbandry. these issues are priorities in the agricultural field for our presidency and a special conference on animal welfare will be held in uppsala, sweden, on 8 and 9 october. the conference will focus on the final results of the eu-funded welfare quality project. since 2004, the project has developed a scientifically based system to assess the management of livestock on farms. the project will also explore the best ways of providing feedback to farmers, consumers and other stakeholders. more than 40 institutes and universities from the eu and latin america have participated. another issue to be discussed at the conference is how to improve animal welfare globally. speakers will come from international organisations such as the wto and fao, global companies and the international meat industry, as well as representatives from the united states and namibia. the outcome of the conference may be relevant to the conclusions that the council is planning to draw in response to the commission's expected communication on animal welfare labelling. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. the swedish presidency is currently working on a commission proposal for a new directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. at this stage the commission has not yet put forward any other legislative proposals on animal welfare which we will be dealing with during the swedish presidency.
i am very pleased that you are saying that you want to keep the debate going and that you are having a conference in uppsala on the matter. the truth is that the legislation that we have in place is really only in effect for about two years. i know that we in ireland have certainly bought into it. we have ensured training for handlers. we have upgraded transport systems and, as a result of all of this, our trade is working very well, but, if we stop it, obviously competition will be gone in the market at home etc. what i am asking is whether it is important to change legislation that is really only in place and only working effectively for two years. the other question was about what robust scientific data is in place to show the need for this.
president-in-office of the council. − well, as you said, it is important to evaluate this properly and see what is being done; what the results have been. we are gathering scientific evidence. at the conference in uppsala, we have invited both experts and scientists to be the background for the discussions at that conference. as i said, we hope that these can be the basis for the council’s response to the communication that will come from the commission. this is what i can say at the moment. but we also very much welcome the opinions of the european parliament. we hope that this could be a very good start for the discussions and gather as much information as possible.
one point: i hope that science is prevailing over emotion in relation to the transportation of animals. i would ask you to address the issue of the transport of horses, which, i think, has not been addressed sufficiently, and i think there is huge concern about that at the moment. i would suggest that animal welfare concerns on farms may increase because of the disastrous prices that farmers in many of our member states are being paid for their produce. they are doing their very best to keep welfare standards up, against the background of very poor commodity prices and, therefore, no income on farms. so i think we need to be sensitive to this issue.
this is a very controversial topic in ireland and is grist to the mill of those advocating a ‘no’ vote on the lisbon treaty. in view of that and in view of the fact that ireland is an island, and that without live exports there will be a cosy cartel operating, particularly for beef and sheep prices, can you give us any hope that this will be addressed or compromised prior to the vote on the lisbon treaty on 2 october?
president-in-office of the council. − i do understand the concerns of members of this house and of the citizens. unfortunately, i cannot promise that this will be solved before the referendum. we are currently awaiting the commission proposal. it has been delayed for reasons i do not know. as soon as it comes, we will throw ourselves at it and start to discuss it. i cannot tell you more because we are waiting for the proposal from the commission. i hope we can do this without dramatising it, but rather evaluate it and look at it from a scientific and evidential point of view.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? the swedish presidency shares the mep's concern about the trafficking of children for sexual exploitation or other purposes. this form of modern slavery is one of the most lucrative forms of international organised crime. it is, of course, abhorrent and it is a serious problem both within the eu and the rest of the world. trafficking in human beings has long been a major issue on the eu agenda and it is clear that we must continue to put in place a combination of measures to combat this abhorrent violation of the most fundamental rights. europe must step up its efforts to prevent and combat organised crime, but also to protect victims of crime. the eu's commitment to combating trafficking in human beings is clearly demonstrated by the adoption and implementation of both legislation and non-binding instruments on this issue. the first was the adoption in 1997 of a joint action to combat trafficking in human beings. the most important piece of legislation is the 2002 framework decision on combating trafficking in human beings. in march 2009, the commission presented a proposal for a new framework decision to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings and to protect victims of such activities. this would thus repeal the 2002 framework decision. one of the aims of the proposal is to provide special treatment for vulnerable victims, children, in criminal investigations and criminal proceedings in order to prevent so-called secondary victimisation. this proposal is linked to another proposal, which is even more specifically targeted at children's needs, namely the proposal for a framework decision on combating sexual abuse of children, the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography and repealing framework decision 2004/68, which was presented by the commission on the same occasion. the aim is to create a more consistent legal framework, increase efficiency and strengthen the penalties for offenders. both proposals are currently being discussed in the council. they are based on a significant international consensus, in particular in the un palermo protocol and the european convention on action against trafficking in human beings and the council of europe convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. in the context of a ministerial conference organised by the presidency in brussels on 19 and 20 october comprehensive eu action against trafficking in human beings , the report of the fundamental rights agency will be presented and specifically discussed and the conclusions will be presented to the council. the swedish presidency also intends to include trafficking in human beings and sexual abuse of children as priorities in the so-called stockholm programme, which we intend to adopt at the december summit.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? thank you anna hedh. i know anna hedh is very involved in these matters. it is very unfortunate that the brussels conference coincides with the session. the reason it is on those dates is that it is to coincide with the eu anti-trafficking day, which is exactly those days. that's why it's a coincidence. i'm really sorry about that. as regards the second question asked by the honourable member, on the reasons for its withdrawal: i didn't know that. i shall check that and come back and perhaps convey an answer to the member on that question.
president-in-office of the council. − yes, ms lynne, i will bring this to the attention of the organisers.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? we're moving between many different issues. the un fao conference will open on 18 november. one of the main issues on the agenda is the reform of the fao. the reform process is based on the plan of action agreed in 2008 by all members of the fao. this action plan involves reforms in many different ways. in particular, the future work of fao will be governed by a performance-based management system that will promote greater efficiency in the allocation and use of scarce resources. we also believe that the reform process will have long-term effects on the work of fao on matters relating to its staff and decentralised offices. the conference will also address issues related to amendments to the fao statute and the reform of the committee on food security. this reform is important because it is linked to the establishment of a global partnership for agriculture, food security and nutrition. to discuss these issues at political level, the fao is organising a world summit on food security in rome from 16 to 18 november. the presidency is represented there and we will be presenting a declaration based in part on the council conclusions on food security to be adopted at the fao meeting. in its conclusions on the fao of 11 november 2008, the council recognised that the current food crisis requires a joint, coherent and coordinated response by the international community, supported by civil society and the private sector. to this end, the eu should support a global partnership for agriculture and food under the eu's millennium development goals (mdgs) action programme. this was welcomed by the european council in june 2008. in its conclusions, the council also welcomed the ongoing reform of the fao, which is being implemented constructively by all member states of the organisation within the framework of the conference committee. in this context, the presidency believes that the summit should have a clear political objective and launch a new management system for food security in the world, in which a renewed and strengthened cfs should take a leading role. the presidency believes that this summit is necessary to establish a forward-looking and action-oriented system to address the current food crisis and to step up efforts to achieve the first mdg to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger. in order to organise this, the cfs reform and a broad commitment to the global partnership will be of paramount importance. the presidency believes that the summit should have this clear political objective, to launch a new system of governance of the world food supply in which the renewed and strengthened cfs should have a leading role. at the operational level, the presidency believes that this summit needs to establish a coherent and actionable system to address the current food crisis and strengthen efforts to achieve the mdgs.
i do appreciate the detailed response. can i just hone in on what the attitude of the swedish presidency is in relation to the role of the common agricultural policy in assisting the concept and the desire for global food security. what role do you think our policy can play in that? do you think it is important that we have a common policy in europe, given our concerns about global food security?
president-in-office of the council. − we have not discussed that in the council in the light of this particular conference, but it is clear that the common agricultural policy can play a role and can also, when we discuss it in the future, play an increasing role in facilitating the poorer countries to be part of the common market, as well as in where we can help to mitigate and to eliminate the current acute crisis. we have done that. now the world situation looks a little bit better. there are positive reports coming from almost all the different markets. that is excellent, and i would give it a little bit of time to reflect on how we can address those conflicts in the future and how we can use a slightly reformed common agricultural policy to help those poor countries and to avoid a similar situation.
we are talking here about global food security, but i would like to just briefly mention food security in the eu. in my opinion, food security in the eu depends on food production in the eu. just today the alde agri group had a meeting with commissioner fischer boel and we were discussing that very issue and the future, as has already been alluded to, of the cap, particularly post 2013, and the fact that the budget may be cut etc. there are really serious implications for food production in the eu. i know that is only part of the wider discussion we are having here this evening, but nonetheless it is hugely important for those who are involved in agriculture. you have already given an answer, but, if you have any further thoughts on that as far as the swedish presidency is concerned, i would appreciate them.
thank you very much for your very concise response. i have just one other query. i understand that there is strong opposition within the council to the proposal to frontload the european social fund to 100% for the upcoming two years. if that opposition is maintained, can the council suggest any alternatives that have been put forward to maintain the momentum of the european economic recovery plan?
i would like to thank you, madam president-in-office, for your comprehensive reply. can i ask you what action the european union has taken, or is in the process of taking, to assist the thousands of refugees that have fled burma’s northern shan state into china as a result of august’s violent clashes between the junta and ethnic minorities?
thank you very much minister. it is great to have you back here, albeit in a different guise. specifically on the two issues where i think we can most cooperate: on proliferation, number one; and secondly with regard to the financial crisis. does the swedish presidency – representing the council, of course – have specific ideas that they want to bring to the us-eu summit that will take place very shortly, in particular about the differences there appear to be between france and britain on one side and the rest of the european union with regard to the financial regulations that would apply? the us appears to be closer to the others within the eu, maybe, than they are to the french and british ideas that were announced yesterday by gordon brown.
madam president, when farm women start protesting you know there is a serious difficulty. at the weekend i met a group of irishwomen called ‘farm women for a fair price’ and i think we should note the words ‘fair price’ because producers are not getting a decent or fair price – and that is what this debate is about. it would be churlish not to welcome the comments from the commissioner about a stability coming into the market place, although at a very low level, and i acknowledge that the commission has taken steps and spent money to bring stability to the market place. it is just that it is not enough and it did not happen quickly enough and we have a severe crisis. i want to say that, in relation to the future, your comments are particularly welcome. i am worried that this house is divided on the issue of milk quotas because when we have codecision, if the lisbon treaty comes into force, we are going to have to think more coherently as a group and give clear signals to farmers rather than divided messages, so let me repeat that your comments about making links between producers and processors, about production levels, are something we need to explore, something we have to have a further debate on. but we need to ask you, commissioner, what type of market support measures do you think will exist in the absence of quotas that can ensure a fair and decent price to our producers? and, also, please tackle the marketplace: it is not working. everybody says they are making no money from milk, including the supermarkets –which i doubt profusely – but we need more clarity, and we need fairness for farmers.
madam president, in the last 12 months the majority of dairy farmers in ireland and across the european union have been selling their milk for less than the cost of production. the livelihoods of dairy farmers are under serious threat. while the commission’s decision to extend the intervention period for butter and skimmed-milk powder until 2010 is very much welcome, short-term measures would not alleviate the pressure on dairy farmers in the long term. actions must be taken now that will manage, not just the current difficulties, but are long-term and will ensure a sustainable and successful industry into the future. financial assistance is required by dairy farmers immediately. the creation of an eu dairy fund of eur 600 million, as called for by parliament in the 2009 budget procedure, is urgently needed. dairy farmers are entitled to fair prices, and an appropriate system of price supports is required to guarantee milk producers a reasonable minimum price per litre and a reasonable income for them to survive. irish and european dairy farmers must not be forced out of business and i urge the commission and the council to take immediate and effective action. commissioner, may i say to you that you have been a very successful commissioner, and i pay tribute to the immense work you have done. you have recently announced that you are stepping down, and i would urge you to solve, or to make as much of a contribution to solving this problem as possible, before your departure.
in writing. – milk quotas need to be cut by between 5 to 10 per cent in order to push prices back up to a sustainable level. but quotas alone will not save the dairy sector. while the commission is correct to adopt a long-term view, it cannot detach itself from reality - and the stark reality is that the agriculture industry, in particular the dairy sector, is in real danger. the lowest milk prices since 1983, together with high costs, poor weather and lack of credit, have created an unprecedented cashflow and income crisis for dairy farm families in 2009. while the indications are that markets have bottomed out, badly needed price increases still appear some way off, and eu action is needed. i agree with ifa president padraig walshe and dairy chairman richard kennedy that the quickest way to speed up price recovery is for the eu commission to make more aggressive use of all market supports such as: - export refunds- processing aids - extended full-price intervention- longer private storage scheme for butter - careful handling of stocks
in writing. − this is an explanation of vote on behalf of the fine gael delegation to the european parliament. the fine gael meps abstained on the votes on lithuania as the legislative/legal processes have not yet been completed there. when the lithuanian legal process has been finalised the question as to whether it conflicts with eu treaties can be examined. this is the normal and correct procedure. we also note that the resolution sets one form of discrimination above others and is in itself a form of discrimination.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the group leaders for their comments. i see that many of them want to see some haste in this process, and i can understand that. i think we should be clear that we are moving into more or less unknown territory. if you look at the legal ground, it was actually foreseen that the lisbon treaty should already have been in place from 1 january this year. we are now trying to act flexibly in a new situation arising from the situation in ireland but also in other countries. it is often true in swedish debates that when you make your point you make a reference to democracy. that is good. that is also what i am trying to achieve here. if a new treaty is to come into force, it is very clear that it has to be ratified by the 27 member states. that is what we need to have in place and that is why i am so precise in saying that we are now at number 24. there are three countries still outstanding, and the longest wait will probably be for the czech republic. once the 27th country has ratified, we will move on. ireland has not ratified. it needs parliamentary ratification before the process is complete. you might say this is easy but you have to be thorough, so you never know. when we have all 27, then the package is clear and we will move over to the lisbon treaty. in doing so, it is also very important to say that all the treaties we have been discussing have come about by balancing different views, and it is pretty clear that i and others here present need to follow these treaties. it happens very often that you do something else that is not in line with the treaties. that is what we are trying to achieve here with the swedish presidency. that is why i am telling you we will try to act quickly on a situation which at the moment actually lies in the hands of a constitutional court in prague, czech republic. when they give their say as to whether they are going to take up this complaint or not, that is when the swedish presidency will give its next reaction to this process. that is democracy at work, because we are following exactly the treaties and the reactions from these different countries. my message to you is that with this clear majority we have to get the lisbon treaty in as soon as possible because we believe this will get us a better functioning europe, but i will do this thoroughly. i will follow the treaties and also respect the fact that all 27 member states must ratify before we can make that move. thank you very much for your comments, and thank you for your support.
president of the commission. − mr president, i will just make some comments on the comments made by the group leaders, and i thank all of them for their contributions. these institutional issues of transitions between two treaties are very difficult from a legal and political point of view, and they require wisdom from all institutions. of course, we would like to have the new treaty approved as soon as possible. the majority of members of this parliament want it, all the governments want it, and the commission certainly wants it. the point is, as the prime minister has just pointed out, that the treaty will not be approved before the end of the mandate of this commission. the commission’s mandate lasts until the end of this month, so we will inevitably have a period where the commission is a ‘caretaker’ commission. that is why i think parliament took the right decision some time ago in already deciding on the president of the commission, because that gives the president of the commission the authority, the political authority, to represent the commission in very important international obligations. that was a wise decision of the european parliament. the important point now is to see how to deal with this transition. today we have discussed this in the commission, and our opinion in the college is that we should, if possible, already bring in the new commission under the lisbon treaty. that is our opinion because this is the treaty we want; this is the treaty which gives you, parliament, more rights in terms of the formation of the commission itself. for instance, the high representative will be vice-president of the commission, and so you will vote on the high representative. that will not happen if we implement the nice treaty, and so it is our opinion that we should if possible bring in the new commission under the lisbon rules. but that, of course, is a question of wisdom and of timing as well. we have in the past, namely in the first commission that i took part in, also started with a prolongation of the previous commission for three weeks. so the question is: how long does it take? and that is why i stated very quickly – and prime minister reinfeldt knows what i think about it – that it is one thing to wait for some weeks and another thing to be waiting we do not know until when. that is a question of judgement, political judgement, and i hope the european council will take the right decisions based on the information we get from our czech partners. this is the question which has to be decided in the european council at the end of this month. certainly we do not want – i think it is in nobody’s interests – to have a commission that is without full legal competences. it is not in the interests of the commission and i am sure it is also not in the interests of the european parliament. that is why i have said i am ready: i am ready to start the formation of the new commission as soon as we have the legal clarity and the european council starts the process. for that i need the council to take some decisions. i need the european council to propose a high representative because the high representative, according to the lisbon treaty, has to be approved by the president of the commission as vice-president of the commission. regarding some comments, i want to underline certain points, and to reassure some members of parliament. some of you said that there will be a ‘president of europe’. i am sorry: there will not be a ‘president of europe’. if we have the lisbon treaty, there will be a president of the european council: it is different. there is a president of parliament, there is a president of the commission, and there will be a president of the european council. it is important to underline that point because sometimes i think there are ideas about certain dérives institutionnelles, and i will not accept, and the european commission will not accept, the idea that the president of the european council is the president of europe, because it is not in the treaties. (applause)it is not in the treaties and we will have to respect the treaties. we have to respect the institutions. there is a president of the european parliament; there is president of the commission. if we have lisbon, there will be a president of the european council. it is very important to understand that all our decisions have to be taken in the framework of the current treaties. that is why i now believe that, as soon as the czechs verify their situation, we should move forward. that is why i think we should work on those points i made before, from the citizens’ initiative to the external services, with that spirit of cooperation between all institutions so that, when the decisions are formally taken, we can implement with determination everything that the lisbon treaty brings, which i believe is more accountability, more democracy and more efficiency for our union.
mr president, as the first irish person to speak in this debate, may i thank colleagues for their kind comments about the irish electorate. i also note the people who have been thanked here so far. i would like to point out that two people who played a stalwart part in this campaign in the ‘yes’ vote and put their countries’ interest before their own party political interests – mr enda kenny td, leader of fine gael, and mr eamon gilmore td, leader of the labour party – have not been thanked. they did more than anybody else selflessly to ensure that this campaign was carried and i want that acknowledged on the record here today. the lisbon treaty process in ireland demonstrates that when we make the effort to bring people with us, they are prepared to respond to leadership. the european project remains the best hope for the people of europe and elsewhere for a peaceful and prosperous future. we cannot assume that people will appreciate its benefits. we have to be as open and as inclusive as possible while explaining these benefits to them. enlargement has not blunted the project. rather it has enabled us to let others share in its benefits. there is indeed unity in diversity. some people in ireland were unsure of the contents of the treaty; others were concerned about abortion being forced on a member state, about neutrality, about the loss of the commissioner and about the potential for the country to lose control over its own direct taxation policy. the irish parliament, through a special committee, identified the concerns of the people following the first referendum and the government got guarantees on these matters from our partners and crucially the change in relation to the future composition of the commission. that was democracy in action at every level. the reason the irish parliament had a right and a duty to do what they did is that the sovereign people of ireland gave them that right and duty. from the high turnout and overwhelming ‘yes’ vote, it is clear that the democratic will of the people was served. mr president, i support what you said about concerns among some of our peoples. let me now raise one issue which i feel needs to be raised. some people in ireland and elsewhere believe that the eu is becoming a cold place for christianity in particular, and religion in general. i have to say that i personally have experienced disrespect from people here who see themselves as fair-minded and liberal, but who are anything but that when it comes to trying to see things from the point of view of people who have religious belief. i respect those who do not have religious belief, but i fully expect them to reciprocate that respect. that is what the whole eu project is about. i repeat: unity in diversity. the second irish referendum shows what can be achieved when we are truly inclusive. i put these words out there for those who have ears to hear, and for posterity. let us now move to complete the ratification and then to deliver on the promises that lisbon contains of greater democracy and transparency, a coherent role in the world, applying the same tolerant and inclusive principles in our dealings with other regions of the world, especially the poorest parts, as we must apply internally.
mr president, when we last debated this issue, i predicted that the irish electorate would reject the political circus comprising gerry adams, nigel farage and joe higgins. i am happy to say that i called it correctly. the nigel farage bombast, it has to be said, did add to the gaiety of the irish nation for a while, but of course the contempt that he holds for irish democracy oozed from every pore of his body here today. his manoeuvrings to get the irish electorate to get britain to leave the eu demonstrated, i believe, his poor grasp of the shared british and irish history. more importantly, the irish electorate have overwhelmingly declared that our future is with europe, that europe is good for ireland and that ireland has a positive contribution to make to the development of the union. i am hopeful that all member states will have ratified the treaty within a short while and that the institutional and democratic and social reforms can be implemented without further delay. the world needs a more effective union to ensure that we can vigorously pursue the objectives of a sustainable development economically, environmentally and socially. i want to make it clear to you, president barroso, and to you, mr president-in-office, that the peoples of europe are demanding action from the union. they no longer need to be persuaded that we need global as well as domestic solutions to the problems we face. what they want to see is the action to actually begin to deal with these crises. they want tangible action, not rhetoric. i do hope that we get a commission which is effective, which is able, and capable in particular of shaking off the dead economic ideology which has brought us to the brink of disaster in europe and indeed around the rest of the world. we must put in place the objective that we have outlined in the lisbon treaty: a social market economy which will bring jobs, which will bring prosperity and which will bring a decent standard of living to all of our peoples.
mr president, last week the irish people, by a victory of 619 000 votes, gave a resounding vote of confidence in the european union project. i would like to thank the other 26 governments in europe and the political groups in this parliament who worked very closely with the irish government over the past 15 months so that the concerns expressed by the irish people in the lisbon treaty i were comprehensively addressed. this was a victory for the irish people, not necessarily for the government or political parties. the irish people overwhelmingly said that ireland’s place lies at the heart of the european union. bhí na páirtithe polaitíochta a bhí ar son an chonartha ag obair as lámh a chéile an iarraidh seo, níos mó ná mar a bhí le linn an reifrinn dheireanaigh. bhí ról lárnach ag grúpaí cathartha, ar nós ireland for europe agus we belong, i léiriú a dhéanamh don phobal nach an córas polaitíochta amháin a bhí ag iarraidh go nglacfadh pobal na tíre leis an reifreann. bhí grúpaí feirmeoireachta láidir ar son an chonartha agus bhí siad iontach gníomhach san fheachtas seo. athrú suntasach atá ann ón reifreann deireanach, agus bhí sé sin le feiceáil. the legally binding guarantees for ireland in the policy areas of taxation, neutrality and socio-ethical issues clarified key concerns of the irish people. i hope that the treaty will now be ratified shortly, and i am pleased to hear the news from you, mr president, about your country. but i would have to say that the remarks made here this afternoon by mr farage from the ukip party were insulting to the irish people and we will not accept that. the irish people are an intelligent, discerning electorate and they knew the difference between the last treaty and this treaty, that the protocols have legally binding agreement. mr farage, you and your colleagues will be pleased to know that your intervention in the treaty meant about 3 or 4% extra for the ‘yes’ side. that is the respect that the irish people have for you and your group.
mr president, i would appeal to those who do not like the outcome of the irish referendum to stop questioning the democratic procedures in ireland. ireland is a democratic state. it is an independent democratic state. the parliament of the irish republic made a decision to hold a referendum; that referendum has been held. it was supported by 95% of the elected representatives in the irish parliament. so, please, you can have your criticisms of the european union, but you have no right to question the democracy of my state.
mr president, i oppose the lisbon treaty from a left and socialist perspective and reject the intervention of xenophobes and right-wing forces. what happened in ireland in the referendum was not a victory for democracy. the irish people were threatened by a major coalition – the political establishment, big business, most of the capitalist press and the eu commission – that if they voted ‘no’ they would be economically isolated, they would be punished by the european union and there would be a flight of capital and investment, and they were told that if they voted ‘yes’ there would be jobs, investments and recovery. all falsehoods. the irish government’s duplicity was shown by the fact that it asked the management of aer lingus to postpone until today, after the referendum, the announcement of 700 savage job cuts in aer lingus. the eu commission intervened continually: interfered in the process. the three presidents are not here, but i want their representatives to ask them for a reaction to the following scandal. mr tajani, eu commissioner for transport, spent a full day travelling around ireland on a ryanair jet with the chief executive of that multinational, campaigning for a ‘yes’ vote. he is the regulator of transport, supposed to protect consumers and workers. he is hopelessly compromised by going around with the chief executive of one of the biggest corporations supplying transport. what is your answer to that? finally, there is speculation that mr tony blair will be the new president of the eu council. let us be clear. mr tony blair is a war criminal. under no circumstances can he be –(the president urged the speaker to conclude as he had exceeded his speaking time.) i was interrupted unnecessarily, mr president. i think you are in the chair, not the honourable member here. the point i wanted to finish with was that mr blair must not be appointed as the president of the eu. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, i should like to ask mr higgins what would have enabled him to support the treaty.
mr president, the lisbon treaty provides for an intensification of the neoliberal economic agenda that has caused economic disaster throughout europe with 21 million unemployed, an intensification of militarisation and the armaments industry, and more pressure for privatisation. there is nothing in the treaty in that sense that a committed socialist could support. we will support genuine initiatives that will stand for workers’ rights within europe, but when the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights itself in fact institutionalise the judgments of the european court of justice whereby they find in favour of the exploitation of migrant workers by contractors supplying businesses across borders, how can we support that?
mr president, it has been a long debate but not very dramatic. can you imagine if it had been ‘no’, this chamber would be full and heaving with emotion and i suppose the fact that it was ‘yes’ and we are now very calm here in the european union speaks volumes. of course i welcome the outcome of the referendum in ireland along with my fine gael colleagues here in parliament. i worked very hard to achieve that ‘yes’ and i would say that the irish people rose above national problems and other domestic issues and looked at the european question and the lisbon treaty and at the past and our associations with the european union and overwhelmingly said ‘yes’ to the european union, and that is a fantastic result. on the other hand, commissioner wallström, who very kindly came to ireland on a number of occasions, will have picked up a strong undercurrent, which i believe exists in all member states, of people who are disconnected from what the european union is about. i think we are all of us to blame for that. i believe that we do not speak enough about the project, about the european union, about solidarity, about what it really means; we speak more of what we can get or what we give and what is wrong with a directive or what is bad about a regulation. so in our politics we need perhaps to rise above some of those issues because when you are at the referendum stage, as we were, it involves explaining to people on the streets and in shops and in schools about what europe is, how it works, what i do, what the commission does, and that is a great exercise. it really is a very powerful exercise to talk to people directly about the european union. people in ireland know it better now than they did for the last while because we have engaged so well with them. so i would urge us all here in this house to do more of that at home in our own countries. and to avoid knocking the european union where it is not appropriate. criticise by all means where it is needed, and to those, like nigel farage, who worry about the irish being bullied, i would say: we are not easily bullied. it did not happen. it will never happen. and can i say, commissioner, that if i am not here for the end of this debate, it is not out of any disrespect to you or to the president or to the presidency; it is other commitments, but thank you all for your support throughout the last while.
mr president, i stand here today as a proud irish mep. it took the blood, sweat and tears of public representatives, athletes, business groups, farmers and trade unionists to secure a historic ‘yes’ vote. i am also proud that last friday i was in my home area of tipperary, watching a landslide victory come through, which showed something that i have always believed in, that ireland is a huge supporter of europe, and we fully intend to play our role in the future. now i know that the leprechauns in ukip, who attended the house last year following the previous referendum, have disappeared. many of you will be glad to know that i firmly believe that the irish people have banished them forever from here. the lisbon treaty verdict was a victory for truth over the damned lies and myths perpetrated in some cases by extremists on the ‘no’ side who tried to take advantage of people’s genuine concerns. those extremists met their match last friday. however, it is a lesson we have to learn. all of us who support progressive politics and a progressive europe need collectively to provide citizens with a greater incentive to engage with our european institutions. we can never take them for granted.
a uachtaráin, mar fheisire nuathofa, ba mhaith liom a rá go bhfuil mé bródúil as ucht an toraidh dhearfaigh a thug muintir na héireann do reifreann liospóin dé haoine seo caite. táim bródúil freisin as ucht na díospóireachta bríomhara atá againn anseo inniu. people have asked why ireland changed its mind. there were perhaps four key factors. one, i think, was the fact that we gained a commissioner; two, the guarantees; three was that we had a proper debate and people were properly informed this time, not like the last time. also the economic crisis was a factor. but the key one was that the ‘yes’ campaign got mobilised this time and it did not last time. civil groups and politicians got together and, for the first time that i could recall, political parties – mainstream political parties – put their differences aside and campaigned for the good of ireland. the irish people responded. the ‘no’ campaign was also well organised and everyone had their say, including the united kingdom independence party, who ensured that this document – the truth about the treaty: stop the eu bulldozer – was distributed widely in ireland. well, the irish people decided that they much preferred to be on the eu train than the ukip bulldozer. last weekend was a triumph for communication. you have often heard about communication deficit. this was a triumph for communication and if we continue in this way we will bring europe closer to the people. now it is up to the czech president to sign the agreement and bring it into being because, if he does not do so, it would be i think the greatest act of dictatorship in the history of the world and a complete negation of democracy. thank you very much for all your support, and we look forward to being positive europeans from ireland long into the future.
mr president, of course i am delighted that the lisbon treaty has passed in my country. however, it has been seen this afternoon that the debate on the reform treaty has been poised between a reality and a distraction, and we must not stand still in its wake. the reality is that the world has changed fundamentally over recent decades, as a much greater proportion of it is now competing with us in a global market. quite simply, europe must behave more coherently if it is to prosper. the treaty now obliges the european institutions to be more democratic and more responsive to individual european people. the charter of fundamental rights insists on this. we do not have the luxury of acting only in the interests of our own nations; we need to strengthen the union which every one of us represents. as we did in our referendum, we need to continue to communicate who and what we are.
mr president, it is with extreme urgency that i call on parliament to see that the eur 14.8 million promised to the workers in the mid-west of ireland in areas like limerick, kerry and tipperary who worked for dell computers and its suppliers is allocated as soon as possible. this money was promised by the commission president under the globalisation adjustment fund in a recent visit to limerick. there is no going back on it and, whatever the issues relating to protocol and how this fund is administered may be, these need to be overcome immediately. parliament should not delay this money, which would give the region a much-needed economic stimulus. it was estimated at one stage that dell and its suppliers employed one in every five people throughout the mid-west of ireland, so this area has been hard hit. that is why i urge the commission to review the rules on state aid support. these were drawn up in 2006 before the massive shock that the loss of dell and the other industries created. i urge the commission to include the mid-west of ireland as an area of serious unemployment in the review of state aid rules next year, so that it can qualify for the now much-needed eu funding.
mr president, there has been much talk in the last two hours and the last couple of weeks in ireland about a communications deficit and the need to bring europe closer to the people. i have a suggestion to make: i think that we should discuss this at some future time in this parliament, particularly to get the views of meps on how the commission and the meps themselves can be involved in this whole area, because national governments have proven reluctant in the past to give credit to the european union for what it does, and as a result the people are not aware of it. we now, with our increased powers and increased opportunities, should take that opportunity to discuss this issue here in parliament and come up with ways and proposals on how we can actually help to clear that deficit and bring europe closer to its people. it would be an exercise well worth doing.
mr president, i welcome the endorsement by the united nations human rights council (hrc) of the recommendations of the goldstone report and their call for an end to the illegal siege of gaza, which is causing so much human suffering. i propose that our relevant parliamentary committees should now examine without delay what steps the european union should be taking to ensure that the goldstone recommendations are pursued in an effective way. i was shocked that four member states of this union – italy, the netherlands, hungary and slovakia – voted against the hrc resolution. human rights and international law are not optional extras to be defended or ignored depending on the relevant political advantages. all our member states must defend international law and human rights without fear or favour, otherwise our credibility is undermined as a force for justice in the world – and, indeed, as an honest interlocutor for peace in the middle east. finally, could i ask that, in the spirit of the lisbon treaty, you insist that no new agreements with israel are signed by the commission or the council in the coming week.
mr president, the imminent closure of independent network news, a dublin-based news agency providing a first-rate national and international news service to the majority of ireland’s local radio stations, raises serious and legitimate questions about the ownership, plurality and regulation of the media in ireland. local radio stations in ireland are required to ensure that 20% of their news content is national and international. this service has largely been supplied by inn in recent years. on foot of inn’s demise, the newstalk station owned by communicorp – which is also a major shareholder in inn – has been awarded the contract to provide a replacement service for the next six months. utv, whose withdrawal from inn precipitated the service’s demise, has also been centrally involved in the efforts to source a replacement service. the national union of journalists has raised important questions over the appropriateness of the involvement of these two bodies in this process, in the context of diversity of media ownership in ireland. these questions must be fully explored.
madam president, it is with great regret that i am addressing the house as a member from a country that has not yet opted into the schengen agreement. it is something i would support entry into. it is my hope that the schengen evaluation working group will finally demonstrate to the irish state, and indeed our neighbours across the way in britain, the undoubted benefits of schengen. freedom of movement is a basic right and a pillar of eu citizenship for which we are all striving. being able to reduce borders and allow the freedom and benefits of travel to eu citizens has been quite remarkable, especially considering european history. the fact that this was done while increasing the ability of our authorities to tackle crime associated with crossing borders has been a major historic achievement and one of the great successes of the eu to date. it was the schengen agreement that prompted ireland to build a full data system of criminal information that will hopefully be linked up to a european system in the coming years. schengen has worked extremely well and it is visible for all to see. it is because of this remarkable achievement that it is regrettable that my own country is only taking part in schengen on a piecemeal basis. while there has been full cooperation between the irish security authorities and our european counterparts in the whole area of police matters, the full benefits of the eu are not being shared by irish citizens. the abolition of border controls requires mutual trust between all member states involved. unfortunately the irish government’s position so far is that it cannot trust its european neighbours in full and it is operating on a minor level when it comes to free movement of people in europe. i very much regret this. what we really need is an eu-wide visa system to which schengen and today’s debate will hopefully contribute. regarding the proposal in front of us, i would ask the commission to withdraw it. i believe that it gives too much power to the commission. in real terms it tries to disregard the european parliament. it should come back to us with proposals that respect the codecision procedure and, besides this debate, post-lisbon there will be a requirement to bring in new proposals anyway.
madam president, we must look at the opportunities that can flow from striking a comprehensive international agreement in copenhagen so that we can effectively arrest climate change. the union is committing to ensuring that 20% of all our energy needs will come from the renewable energy sector by 2020. europe – and indeed my own country, ireland – can become world leaders in developing new and innovative wave and tidal technologies. the development of such technologies is a vital component of our strategies to achieve our climate change targets. we must ensure that we maximise funding under the seventh and eighth eu research and technology framework programmes between now and 2020. cuideoidh an infheistíocht i dteicneolaíocht ghlas le poist a chruthú san eoraip ag am ina bhfuil géarchéim eacnamaíochta ann. tá a fhios againn faoi na deacrachtaí móra a bheidh ann mura dtabharfaimid faoinár ndualgais idirnáisiúnta. tá a fhios againn na dúshláin atá romhainn. mar sin, tabharfaimid faoi na dúshláin seo go diongbháilte agus go freagrach.
madam president, the issue of food security needs to be mentioned in this debate on climate change, for the developing world in particular. it is very difficult to ask people to look at climate change mitigation if their basic needs for food are not met. we need to allow them to use the best available technology to produce, in a sustainable way, food which does not harm the environment, and to tackle the issue of climate change. i have a concern in relation to the world trade organisation and a deal on agriculture which does not take into account the impact, for example, of deforestation in brazil as it supplies beef to the european union. these are very complex issues. we might solve a problem in one place and create another elsewhere. we obviously need a global agreement which tackles climate change but we also need to recognise the very serious issue of food security.
madam president, deforestation has been mentioned by many speakers and absolutely correctly so – both industrialised deforestation and individual deforestation. i myself noticed that, when i worked on a voluntary basis in africa, day in day out, i saw people climbing up the mountain, spending the whole day with their little axe cutting down timber, and coming down in the afternoon carrying their little bundle of timber on their head or on their bicycle. it is quite obvious that this cannot be tackled without dealing with the whole question of global poverty, because individuals are not going to stop chopping down wood for the greater good of society if it means they themselves are going to starve. so climate change and global poverty will have to be tackled hand in hand.
in writing. – negotiations for a new global climate agreement are now on a knife edge. the us seems unable to pass legislation to curb its excessive co2 emissions. china seems unwilling to accept binding targets. developing countries claim correctly they did not cause this crisis. europeans have a historic responsibility to clean up the climate mess we helped create. it is actually our reckless abandon of the environment that has led to this dangerous changing of our climate. this is not only an environmental issue and it is not just an economic issue, but also an issue of international social justice. i join my colleagues in supporting calls for europe to make a real offer of financing to the developing world to help it fight climate change, in order to break the deadlock in the current negotiations. this financing must be new and additional (the existing promises of 0.7% should not be touched) and it must be adequate enough to allow developing countries to fight climate change, with the necessary mitigation and adaption measures. some say we cannot afford such new financing. however, when the banks came begging, most governments, including the irish government, were only too quick to provide them with billions in taxpayers’ money. our economies will recover, but our environment will not...
in writing. − i support the conclusion of the statute of the international renewable energy agency by the european community. the international renewable energy agency aims to become a centre of excellence for renewable energy, which will enable it to help governments harness renewable energy sources, to disseminate know-how and best practice, and to provide training in this field. it is thus desirable for the community to be represented in an institution whose goals coincide with an area of its competence, and whose statute has already been signed by 20 member states.
in writing. − the issue voted on refers to the need of the european institutions to repeal council acts, which have through the passage of time and the development of technology, become obsolete and irrelevant to the correct functioning of the union. this vote refers to certain council acts in the field of the common agricultural policy. i believe that certain aspects of the cap have long been in need of review. if the policy is to be correctly implemented and used for the benefit of european citizens, the acts which it has created must be relevant to the world of agriculture as it is today. it is also my firm belief that something must be done to rid the union of its red-tape image amongst the people of europe. acts such a these serve simply to confuse, without serving any real purpose. aspects of eu policy such as this tarnish the image of the union amongst its citizens and discourage people from interacting with it. in conclusion, it is my firm belief that if the union wishes to remain relevant, then modernisation of its laws and policies must always be voted in favour of.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom, i dtús báire, mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leis an uachtarán barroso as teacht anseo agus ceisteanna a fhreagairt go hoscailte, go macánta agus go líofa. unfortunately president barroso was accused of not being democratically elected and of bullying the irish into submission. i would like to tell mr farage that he certainly was not democratically elected to speak on behalf of the irish, and his use of the word ‘bully’ was also unfortunate because for 700 years ireland was known as the john bull’s other island, when john bull – namely england – tried to bully the irish into submission. thankfully that day is now over so i will go on to my question. with the new competences which the lisbon treaty gives to the european union, would president barroso consider giving one commissioner exclusive responsibility to bring forward new proposals and new measures to enact these competences?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − madam president, i do not want to ask for the budget to be bust; all i want to ask is that we meet the commitments we have given to the developing world. eleven million children die every year in the developing world. these are people who are hit not just by the financial crisis, in the way we are, but by the fact that they do not even get the remittances – which were greater than the financial assistance we gave them – from their families living in the developed world because they, too, are suffering. these people are suffering doubly: they are also suffering from the consequences of climate change. all i want us to do is to meet our commitment to these people. if our gnp goes down a percentage, our contribution to these people also goes down. so let us meet the percentage contribution we said we would make. clarity in the budget line, so that we can measure here in parliament that you are meeting those commitments, and additionality are absolutely central to this. please, in all of this, do not ask the poorest people in the world to carry a burden they are not able to carry.
madam president, recently the irish government decided to scrap the reps scheme for farmers: that is the rural environmental protection scheme. that scheme, like many more, was cofunded by the european union. i want to know: what happens to the money when it is not utilised by the particular government; whether the same happens in other countries; where this money goes and how is it utilised when it is not used within the country for which it is designated.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank the members for their commitment to this issue. we fully agree on the need to strengthen democracy in the eu's foreign policy. it is particularly important that this dimension should not be forgotten in the present economic crisis. we know that many developing countries are being hit very hard by the crisis. the recession is leading to discontent and social unrest. if there are no well-functioning democratic institutions, things can go very badly. it is therefore important that there are secure, democratic institutions and a strong civil society to deal with these crises. the eastern partnership is a very important instrument, not least for strengthening democracy. we are putting a lot of work into this. we will have a foreign ministers' meeting in december and we hope to be able to launch a number of concrete measures in early 2010. the eastern partnership is an important instrument for strengthening democracy in our immediate neighbourhood. heidi hautala raised the issue of uzbekistan. of course, this is a very serious matter. the human rights situation there is far from satisfactory. as heidi hautala knows, the council must be unanimous in its decision to extend the sanctions. such unanimity does not exist today. but we agree on the objective of strengthening democracy and human rights in uzbekistan. we hope that the way to get there is a stronger commitment. we hope to find alternative ways of strengthening democracy by continuously assessing the human rights situation and considering our relations with uzbekistan. there are other means of influence which may be more effective than an arms embargo, and very few countries trade in arms with uzbekistan, so an arms embargo might be more of a symbolic measure than anything else. maybe there are other ways. but as i said, first we need unanimity in the council and we don't have that today. if the eu is to have credibility in its relations with the outside world in the field of human rights and democracy, we must also be strong within the eu. there are flaws. we may not want to compare them with the terrible abuses committed in other countries, but there are shortcomings within the eu. we must be vigilant about this at all times in order to have credibility on the outside. finally, i would like to thank you for this debate and also for the excellent resolution which i have seen parliament put forward. i have not yet had a chance to look at all the amendments, but i think the resolution that exists is very good. it is fully in line with the ambitions of the swedish presidency. as i said, we hope to be able to adopt the council conclusions at the general affairs and external relations council in november. we look forward to further discussions with parliament on this issue.
in writing. – i fully support this call for a more coherent and effective framework for eu support for democracy-building, the promotion of democratic values and respect for human rights in the world. the european union itself is founded on the very values of democracy and human rights. indeed, the copenhagen criteria governing conditions of eu accession demand of candidate members "stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities". moreover, the lisbon treaty enhances union's commitment to continue its external action according to its founding principles. indeed, a key objective of the common foreign and security policy is to consolidate democracy, rule of law, and, respect for human rights. i urge that the european external action service (eeas) be established speedily not only an aid to democracy building but also be established as a democratically accountable service to european parliament. democracy is a universal value. democratisation and good governance are not only ends in themselves but are vital for poverty reduction, sustainable development, peace and stability. indeed, democracy, development and respect for human rights, including economic, social and cultural rights, are interdependent and mutually reinforcing.
mr president, we have this conversation every year, and it strikes me that the politics needs to change if we want to have more people – and specifically more women – involved in the commission, council and parliament, which does not seem to want that. the way we function as a parliament does not suit parents with children – be they men or women – and one has to make a choice. i chose this career but i have somebody who has chosen to be at home. i think we need to be realistic in our discussions about what is practical.
leaving aside the jobs which have been undermined in registered businesses, the health implications of this are extraordinary. half of all the patients admitted to the largest hospital in ireland, st james’s hospital, are admitted with smoke-related illnesses. if you care to check in all the other member states you will find a similar situation. these cigarettes are contributing to that problem but not making any contribution to the cost of treating it. i understand that the figure that has been put on the amount of illicit trade coming into the european union by way of cigarettes is eur 9.5 billion, and 97% of it goes undetected. is it not time for a comprehensive approach by the commission, including, for example, looking at the possibility of a coastguard to deal with this problem?
clearly education is largely a matter for member state governments, but one issue that the commissioner could help to coordinate is putting an end to what i would call apartheid in the educational system. in whole sections of our community, people just do not have access to third-level education. if you take dublin, for example, i could identify five areas which make up 75% of the prisoner population at mountjoy jail, which is our biggest prison. needless to say, access to third-level education in those same communities in the 21st century is still at an all-time low. i presume that is the case right across europe. could you not promote standards to end apartheid and open up third-level education to everybody?
member of the commission. − you are absolutely right that, under the current circumstances, the commission and the member states must be very creative in improving conditions for young people to enable them either to keep their jobs or, if they have lost them, to retrain them and better prepare them for the next opportunity, the next possible employment. the commission is working very closely with the member states and experts, and in the current situation they are focusing on three areas: how to use this period to ensure that they achieve the right basic skills and key competences, how to make high-quality education more equitable and how to ensure the quality of teaching and learning in schools. i believe that these are basic preconditions for preparing young people to overcome this very difficult period and better prepare them for the next wave of jobs which, hopefully, will be created once the crisis has subsided.
member of the commission. − volunteering in third sector activities plays an important role in the eu policy-making, given the benefits for society in terms of cohesion, inclusion, democracy, citizenship and also bringing us very clear, inherent, economic value. volunteering provides many occasions for non-formal education and deserves to be adequately recognised. while volunteering takes place in many sectors, there are structural specificities regarding the field of sport. voluntary activity in sport forms the basis for the organisation, administration and implementation of sport activities in new member states and plays a fundamental role in supporting the entire sport structure. this importance of voluntary activity in sport has repeatedly been acknowledged at the eu political level: in its 2007 white paper on sport, the commission explicitly recognises the role of voluntary activity as one of the common elements of the european approach to sport. in its ‘pierre de coubertin’ action plan, the white paper therefore seeks to promote volunteering in sport and non-profit sport organisations through specific actions including a study on volunteering and exchange of good practices within the informal eu ‘non-profit sport organisation’ working group. in addition, projects relating to volunteering in sport have been financed through the ‘europe for citizens’ and ‘youth in action’ programmes. a new study on volunteering was launched in spring 2009 and it described volunteering and it will describe the volunteering in all 27 member states. this will bring deep analyses of the main opportunities and challenges, and it will be followed by the recommendation to the european union member states, civil society and sport organisations. the study results are expected before the end of 2009 so we will definitely be receiving them in the coming weeks. we believe that this study should contribute to an increased understanding of volunteering in sports, in both societal and economic terms, as a basis for responding to the political demand to promote voluntary activities in sport and its underlying structure in an eu context. as stipulated in its proposal, which is still subject to the legislative procedure, the commission also intends to promote voluntary activity in sport under the framework of european year on volunteering 2011. provided that the lisbon treaty enters into force, the implementation of new provisions on sport which include the specific reference to the promotion of sports structures based on voluntary activities at eu level will require due reflection. in that event, the commission will hold consultations with all concerned stakeholders to develop policy and suitable initiatives with a clear eu added value.
i would like to thank the commissioner, particularly for his references to the white paper on sport, which i welcome. i want to refer to obesity, which is one of the most serious public health problems in europe at the present time. it is estimated that there are 22 million overweight children in the european union, of which 5.1 million are considered obese. the increase in child obesity is extremely worrying. as childhood obesity is also strongly linked to obesity in adulthood, the best time to address the problem is early in life. how does the commission intend to link volunteerism in sport and the ‘sport for all’ concept with the battle against rising obesity levels amongst children within the european union and within member states? is there any possibility that an education programme could be run by your department to ensure that message is got across throughout europe and in each member state?
member of the commission. − thank you for raising this very important topic, which is a little bit related to the subsequent question. i agree with you 100% that obesity in children and, later on, among adults is one of the urgent problems we are facing in the european union. i will speak later about the studies which we have completed and evaluated on this subject, and it is very clear that there are two sides to the coin. on the one hand, we have to work very hard on improving sports activities in schools and on encouraging sports activities among adults; on the other hand we have to be very careful about nutritional guidelines. as i am sure you are fully aware, the latest studies have clearly established that we probably had a higher intake of calories in the 1950s. at that time we consumed more fat, but we did not have the problem with obesity. the answer is very clear that people then moved about much more and had much more physical activity. one of the conclusions is therefore that we cannot win the battle against obesity through dietary recommendations alone, but that these must be combined with adequate physical activity. in this respect, the european union is still waiting for real competences in sport. we are waiting for the completion of the lisbon treaty ratification process, and then the commission will engage in wide consultations with all stakeholders so that we can prepare very good, widely accepted and positive initiatives. this will be one of the topics on which we should concentrate, as one way to positively improve the situation among children is to increase the number of hours in school devoted to physical activity. this will not be so difficult to introduce and i am sure it would bring very important and positive results.
you said in your response to mr aylward that volunteering brings clear economic value. indeed it does, and social value as well. given that you also mention 2011 as the european year on volunteering in your response, i would like to ask why the commission has only proposed a budget of eur 6 million for this year; the year 2010 will have a budget of eur 18 million. volunteering is free in the sense that it is freely given, but that is not a good reason for the european commission not to invest in the 100 million volunteers across the eu. i would therefore like your views on the amount of funding that has been allocated to the year, because i genuinely believe it is not sufficient.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his response. in fact it was not related to the previous question; i was taking a different angle. the commissioner touched on two points that i wanted to bring up: first of all with regard to the nutrition and health group that is meeting with regard to types of food and dietary conditions, but also with regard to false advertising by many people involved in saying that sport is linked to certain types of products and additives, which can be very harmful to health. instead of using natural products to create a better, healthy environment for those people who want to train in sports, they are using supplements such as growth hormones condensed into certain drinks and high-performance drinks, which are sold on the basis that they give you extra pep or extra zip but, in reality, cause huge health problems. this is why i wanted to link the very finest of sport and what sportsmen and women do to get to the condition they are in, while also encouraging those at lesser levels of sport to understand that taking a quick drink is not going to make you the best sportsperson in the world.
mr president, i would say this to the commissioner: if you will forgive the pun, the milk crisis is something the commission has made a pig’s ear of, a saying we have in ireland when somebody has made a complete hash of something. only 18 months ago you were saying that milk prices would increase substantially, only to see them fall by half in some countries. this is why the commission must be able to intervene more quickly in the market, and this motion is positive in that respect. in my constituency of munster in ireland many in the dairy industry, both big and small farmers, and particularly family farms, are just subsisting or are just teetering close to bankruptcy. they are looking at their difficulties and the paltry amounts being offered while others, like banks and bankers, are being bailed out to the tune of huge sums. (the president asked the speaker to speak more slowly)the eur 280 million milk fund announced yesterday is welcome but is merely a sticking plaster over a much wider problem. the house voted last september that eur 600 million should be made available. in the interests of showing solidarity with small farmers in particular, this figure should be maintained. the next priority for the commission must be to address the whole issue of milk supply. i firmly believe this. until this is addressed, we will be facing more problems and we are quickly going to run out of sticking plasters.
mr president, the most important words that came from the commissioner are that market prices are beginning to rise. we should acknowledge that in this house and push to ensure that they are passed on to farmers. we are saying there is eur 280 million available to them, but every additional cent they receive is worth much more than the doling out of payments to them. that is most important. i think it is important that some have criticised the commission hugely. let us acknowledge that intervention and export refunds have been used to maintain prices, even with that horribly low price for producers, so i think some of the criticism is unnecessary and harsh. i support the extension of article 186 if you needed to pay out this eur 280 million, which i regard as symbolic rather than significant. let us look at the lessons. we need to look at what is going to happen to cap reform post-2013; the high-level group is focusing on it. i would say to those political groups who tonight support funding for dairying: make sure that you also support a properly funded common agricultural policy after 2013; otherwise your words are empty.
mr president, firstly, i am pleased to see my former colleague cecilia malmström here, particularly in light of the convincing ‘yes’ to lisbon in ireland, followed by the signature of the democratically elected polish president. i think these two further endorsements will, i hope, facilitate the swedish presidency to preside over the full ratification of the lisbon treaty. however, most european citizens are far more concerned about what the eu is doing to deal with the current economic crisis rather than the detail of lisbon. so i say to my eurosceptic friends: ‘get over it’. before the irish ‘yes’ vote, 27 million eu citizens voted ‘yes’, 24 million voted ‘no’. that is democratic legitimacy. so let us deal with the real world. in this context i want to speak about the progress microfinance facility, which will give those who are unemployed a chance of a new start and open up the way to entrepreneurship. this facility will provide eur 100 million and could leverage a further eur 500 million of microcredit. but i am saying to the commission and to the council: this is not nearly enough. this is a real opportunity for the eu to be responsive to the real needs of its citizens, but we need greater investment.
mr president, in our debates about these summits, you will find if you go back over 10 years that many ideas, many similar plans or proposals have come forward from members within this house, from members of the council and also from commissioners, and, if anything, the last year has proven one thing to me, namely that when the union acts together in solidarity with big plans and big ambitions, it moves the world. maybe now is the time for greater plans and bigger ambitions as regards how we move forward. many have spoken about the scourge of unemployment which has come upon so many people in the last number of months, and have said that now is the time to take serious action to remove the dead wood of regulation and get rid of the dead wood of blockages to businesses and to entrepreneurs creating those businesses. could i say that when we speak about solidarity it is not about the big against the small, and one fear that i have is that the new g20 could impact negatively on small countries and medium-sized countries which are emerging in these new markets. finally a word to the president-in-office: you might put the issue of copyright term extension on the agenda for the council as well under the swedish presidency.
mr president, within a generation the population of the european union will be about 6% of the world’s population. we are not far beyond that now, which is why we simply cannot continue to rotate the presidency of the european council every six months and have up to five different people speaking on foreign-affairs-related issues for the union. but also within that generation, the population of the world will have increased by about two billion people. ninety per cent of that increase will be in what is now the developing world, where up to 11 million children die each year, about five million of them for want of medicines that have been available in what we call the west for over 30 years. in that context it is not only important that we are organised well to run europe internally; it is also important that we are equipped to deal with situations like this in the developing world, which is why i want to make a case for a strong, independent, separate commissioner for development aid, who will have his or her own clear budget and remit and will be accountable to this chamber through our committee on development. it is crucially important that the high representative, minister for external affairs, whatever title you want to give that person, will have a lot on his or her plate, much to do, but here is one single issue which commands and must command our particular attention. i want to advocate strongly that not only do we continue to have an office of commissioner for development, but that this portfolio is given to somebody who is equal to the task and determined to ensure that these, our neighbours who are a short journey away from the european union, are treated with respect. this for selfish as well as selfless reasons.
mr president, one of the lessons to be learnt from the recent referendum in ireland is that a good pr campaign makes a big difference. in june 2008 the irish people voted against the lisbon treaty. a little over a year afterwards they voted by a two-thirds majority in favour. did the european union have a much greater impact on their lives in the interim? no. but the message of the european union was sold far better by the ‘yes’ side in the second campaign. particularly now with the lisbon treaty coming into being, i think it is important with the new competences that much good work will be done. however, the commission must also engage in a proper pr strategy to bring that good work home to the citizens. so i would ask the commission what plans they have in that regard so that future referenda will be passed much more easily than in the past.
mr president, i am very pleased with the outcome of today’s resolution because italy is a member state of the european union and to include it individually in a motion before us would be somewhat superfluous. however, i hope that in the future we have an opportunity to discuss freedom of information, freedom of the press, and the freedom of individual journalists, within the organs they work for, to express their opinions. and we should ensure that this applies right across the european union, as we should not be discussing only one particular country. today’s result was a good day for the european union and a good day for democracy.
in writing. − today we voted on a variety of resolutions and amendments. in essence there were proposals before us which condemned the running of media services in germany, portugal, hungary and italy. as members of the leading party in the irish government, we have consistently opposed proposals put forward in the european parliament which condemn the internal activities of individual governments and individual countries within the european union. we have consistently opposed political strategies since we joined the european union whereby the european parliament is asked to adjudicate on political divisions and arguments that take place internally within individual countries in the european union. that has been our policy stance in the past and that is our policy position now. we have always been consistent. we will always uphold the freedom of expression, which is a fundamental right of all citizens in europe.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls for a directive on media concentration and the protection of media pluralism. unfortunately, the eu's legislative framework on media pluralism and media concentration is still inadequate. the european union guarantees freedom of expression and information in article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights and article 10 of the european convention on human rights. indeed, art. 11 of the charter explicitly states "the freedom and pluralism of the media shall be respected" media freedom and pluralism are essential to a free, healthy, and, democratic society. the increasing concentration of media in the hands of wealthy patrons clearly stifles open debate. we need be very wary of wealthy business interests controlling the flow of information and pushing a self serving market driven, anti-regulation, and, often, anti-trade union agenda. equally, and for the same reasons of ensuring impartiality, public media operators should be independent and not subject to interference by governmental authorities.
in writing. − i voted for this joint motion due to my deep concern at the contrentration of media ownership in italy and accross europe. in ireland we have a possible similar situation developing and i hope the european parliament will explore this issue again. these questions must be fully explored and a watching brief should be maintained by the parliament in relation to these developments and trends in media ownership in ireland and across the eu. i also note my disappointment fianna fail tds voted against this modest motion on media ownership in italy.
in writing. − the issue voted on refers to issues of regulation of media ownership. many people refer to the democratic deficit of the eu, however given the concentration of media ownership throughout europe, the greatest threat to real democracy are the media barons of the world. if people think owners do not influence newspapers think again. rupert murdoch owns almost 200 news outlets throughout the world. only a minority of those had an anti-war stance on iraq. democracy depends on the public being informed. concentration of media ownership means that enhancing the business interests of an elite minority can be disguised as independent editorial. the public must always be given choice when it comes to news dissemination. in ireland we have our own problems with media ownership that we must regulate. this house must support freedom of speech and freedom of media expression. it is with regret that colleagues on the right differed.
mr president, i want to welcome the brok report and urge rapid progress on establishing the eeas as a democratically accountable service. i have great hopes that this service can lead to greater coherence between our policy objectives and decisions, particularly as they impact globally on sustainable development, on human rights, and on the eradication of poverty. we have failed so far to ensure that our policies are coherent. often our trade policies conflict directly with our development cooperation policy. i also want to warn against any thoughts about subsuming development policy as part of our foreign policy. we need an autonomous development service answerable to an autonomous commissioner for development and humanitarian aid. to ensure coherence, we need benchmarking, screening and impact assessment for proposed decisions as they impact on development policy objectives.
in writing. – relations between the us and the european union have always been strong. it was with american aid that a shattered europe was able to reconstruct and develop in the post war years. now the world again faces a crisis and it is more vital than ever that we retain this link and work together to resolve the problems which have beset the world economy. the european union and the united states have a strategic role to play in the recovery process. combined our gross domestic product represents more than half the global gdp, and we have the worlds strongest bilateral trade partnership, making up almost 40% of world trade. however further developments must be implemented if we are to combat the economic crisis effectively. the trans-atlantic economic council has created for itself the goal of an integrated trans-atlantic market by 2015. this will be done by reducing barriers to trade. if this goal is accomplished economic growth can re-commence and the recovery process can begin. the risk of a further “credit crunch” is not over. to avoid further economic collapse and unemployment the ec must ensure coordinated economic policies are put in place in both areas.
president-in-office of the council. − the whole european union has, on several occasions, said that we are against the american embargo and that we think it does not facilitate a future solution on cuba. the european union has also said that we are willing to enter into a closer cooperation with cuba, including trade, depending on their progress on human rights. for the moment, however, in view of the lack of progress on human rights and respect for democracy and of the number of political prisoners, it is not possible for us to make any progress on this situation. it is up to the cuban authorities to show whether they want this relation with us to show concrete progress. unfortunately there has been very little progress so far.
acting president of the council. - marian harkin raises an issue which is very relevant today, when an increasing proportion of our population is getting older. action in this area is primarily a matter for national competence and the community can only support and complement the work done by the member states. the swedish presidency, however, wants to draw attention to the issue and we are doing everything we can to improve the quality of care for the elderly and to combat the problems of abuse of the elderly. in this connection, i would like to recall a conference held in stockholm a month ago on the subject of healthy and dignified ageing. the conference brought together 160 participants from 27 countries. it was a high level of participation. the commission was there, the member states, officials from health and social ministries and many ngos. the aim was to highlight the very problems the honourable member is referring to: how can we address the need for increased collaboration between the health and care sectors to meet the needs of our older citizens? the presidency intends for the council to adopt conclusions on this issue on 30 november at epsco. the draft conclusions call for deeper and closer cooperation in the area of healthy and dignified ageing, including through the exchange of information between member states. the commission is also invited to draw up an action plan for the dignity, health and quality of life of older people. i would also like to recall that the council adopted conclusions in june this year entitled 'equal opportunities for women and men: active and dignified ageing' precisely to facilitate the provision of high quality care in the home care of older people, taking into account the specific needs of older men and women. more specifically, as regards the issue of elder abuse, council directive 2000/78/ec already prohibits discrimination on grounds of age in employment. the commission proposed that the protection afforded by this directive be extended to a number of other areas, such as social security, health care, social benefits, education, access to goods and services, housing, etc. this proposal contains many relevant elements dealing with elder abuse. this includes home care, institutional care and health care. it prohibits harassment, which is a form of discrimination defined as unwanted behaviour that leads to 'the violation of a person's dignity and the creation of a threatening, hostile, humiliating, humiliating or abusive atmosphere'. this proposal is currently being discussed in the council and the european parliament has already delivered an opinion. the adoption of the proposal requires unanimity in the council. we cannot of course prejudge the outcome of the council's discussions, but i would nevertheless say that we are making every effort to introduce legislation which will help to eliminate all forms of abuse and neglect of the elderly, which is entirely in line with the opinion of the european parliament. of course, it is our firm belief that no human should be subjected to harassment or abuse, least of all our elderly who are so dependent on care.
thank you, president-in-office malmström, for your considered reply. according to the communication from the commission in 2008, the right conditions have to be put in place in terms of resources, training and support for carers. i absolutely agree that this is so, and i also understand that this is a national competence. there are, however, some areas where the eu can help. one of them is in the whole area of the cross-border dimension. i just wanted to know your opinion on the setting-up of a formal structure for exchange of information with regard to health professionals, in this case care-givers, who cross borders.
president-in-office, ms harkin has asked a very important question and you have answered it very well but, broadening out the scope of the question, ageism is generally regarded nowadays as 65-plus. would you consider recommending, on a union-wide basis, increasing, or being more flexible with, the retirement age and having gradual retirement rather than permanent retirement, which seems to happen for most people now? that would help enormously in improving the quality of life and ensuring more respect for the elderly.
thank you for your comprehensive answer. i share the concerns about animal welfare, but i want realistic regulation that also allows trade in animals which is legitimate and properly policed and i would suggest that we do not need additional regulation. we need absolutely proper implementation of existing regulations and i think your comments about navigation etc. are helpful in this debate. please let science dictate. i would ask you to concentrate, perhaps, on horse transport. that is a particular problem, and there the regulations are not being implemented. perhaps you would have a comment on that.
following on from my colleague mrs mcguinness’s question: ireland being an island nation is very dependent on transport of animals overseas and the restrictions that are being implemented and being proposed to be implemented are regarded by many people in the industry as cost-prohibitive. so would you take that into consideration when you are doing the review? otherwise, if we do not have live transport, you will have a cosy cartel amongst the factories, which will pull down prices further and drive more and more people out of farming.
thank you very much firstly for taking my question: i appreciate it very much. thank you also for your answer, which was comprehensive. i think you have outlined very clearly the value of sport, especially the health value of it, and i am quite sure that, when the lisbon treaty comes into being, we can walk hand in hand to ensure that sport, as a competence of the european union, can get its fair share of promotion and publicity.
thank you for taking the question, because mr kelly is very shy and he has not said that he was a former president of the gaelic athletic association, the most important sporting movement in ireland, and that is why his interest is in sport. he has been very coy about that, but i thought you should know.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the inevitable arrival and recurrence of a flu pandemic has thrust the issue of vaccination to the forefront of the news agenda. however, this has been a long-standing and persistent problem for the developing world. the oral question this morning raises an excellent point about the hypocrisy and inequity of the western world demanding materials for vaccines from developing countries to protect their rich citizens, and then having the audacity to sell the selfsame vaccines back to the poor. above and beyond the need for the developing world to have similar access to flu vaccinations, we must strive to set up a system whereby the poorest people of the world, who are almost invariably more exposed to disease, have the opportunity which we in the west take for granted to protect themselves from preventable diseases. tuberculosis is a good example of the contrast between us and our neighbours in the developing world. in europe, children are routinely given the bcg vaccination, which has greater than 80% effectiveness. this has led to a situation in europe where tb is not the persistent threat is once was. contrast this with the developing world, where 26% of avoidable deaths are caused by tuberculosis. the effect of tb in these countries is exacerbated by the fact that it is a highly infectious airborne disease that spreads easily within confined spaces such as the squalid shanty towns so prevalent in many developing nations. add to this the fact that 50% of aids patients in sub-saharan africa where hiv/aids is rife will develop tb, and we can see how lucky we are to be in the relatively controlled immunised area, having programmes such as we do. for a shining success story of the power of immunisation and the need for development aid in general, look no further than the example of measles in africa, where, largely due to vaccination programmes, deaths from the disease fell from 90% between 2000 and 2006. mr president, it is clear that vaccination works and it is clear that we have a responsibility to the people who are suffering from the absence of vaccinations. i urge that we in this house keep the pressure on to ensure that this facility is made available to the poorest of the poor. may i make a point of order before i sit down: please do something about the lifts in this house. i was going up and down in the lift when the doors jammed and i could hardly get here in time for the debate. everybody complains about it. something has to be done.
mr president, firstly i would like to say that i too am delighted that we have today voted through the budget funding for the dairy sector, which does show that the european union listens and reacts – obviously within the limits of its budget. it would be better if we could have more money to give to the dairy sector but hopefully we can improve that matter in the future. half a loaf is better than no bread at all. secondly, i would like to point out that in the english interpretation today a number of mistakes were made. mr buzek very kindly said that it may have been because he was speaking too quickly. it does not matter, and it is not a question of blaming anybody, but 908 was called 909, 444 was called 445, and 440 was called 444, so, if there are queries subsequently, that matter should be taken into consideration. of course, the screen unfortunately did not work for a while either, but that was an electronic error, not a human one.
in writing. − dairy farmers are under serious pressure right now. in ireland, where the dairy industry is strategically important, almost every dairy farmer in 2009 will be making a loss. this is not a sustainable situation for one of europe's key industries. i voted on today's amendment to show solidarity with the farming community at a time of crisis. my only regret is that we are not voting to give them €600 million instead of €300 million as was originally suggested by this house. however the vote on that matter was blocked at committee level by the centre right parties in the parliament. €300 million is better than nothing but more drastic action is needed in future to support this industry.
mr president, i fully agree with the comments of mr czarnecki. the attack last july on the iraqi pmoi camp at ashraf in iraq can only be described as savage and barbaric. eleven people killed, and a lot more could have been killed; numerous people brutally injured – you have to see the video to realise the barbarity which actually occurred. the army and the military indulged themselves in the most sadistic form of brutality. as a result, 36 people were arrested; they had no option but to go on hunger strike. they were released two weeks ago because of international pressure – and international pressure after 72 days on hunger strike: that is what brought people to heel in relation to the malaki government. so these people are refugees; they are entitled to go to bed at night and get up in the morning, safe. we need, as mr czarnecki said, two things: first of all, we need a permanent un presence there to replace the united states, and, secondly, an absolute guarantee of no displacement.
author. − mr president, i support this resolution even though i think it is not critical enough of the sri lankan government. earlier this year we witnessed the appalling military assault on the area held by the tamil tigers, without any regard for the lives or well-being of citizens who, in my view, are used as pawns by all sides, resulting in 90 000 dead. the world stood horrified and helpless, yet still today there are more than a quarter of a million sri lankan citizens who are interned without adequate medical facilities, without clean water, sanitation or living space. today’s resolution is a relatively mild call on the sri lankan authorities to respect the rights of their citizens. it is my own view that, if there is no measurable progress soon on the demands in this resolution, then the european union must bring economic and political pressure to bear on the regime in sri lanka. sri lanka depends for its economic recovery on foreign direct investment and on eu economic support. we must use that leverage in the interests of the sri lankan peoples, including the tamil people.
author. − mr president, the policy pursued towards the tamil people by the government of president rajapaksa has resulted in a nightmare for both the sinhala and tamil peoples in sri lanka, with massive repression by the sri lankan state against individuals and groups who have stood up against its chauvinist policies. after the defeat of the tamil tigers, the nightmare continues for the tamil people, especially in the north of sri lanka, with 300 000 people – including 31 000 children – forcefully detained in camps where disease and malnutrition are rife. now a new horror threatens, with reports that the rajapaksa government plans to settle sinhala people in the east and north of sri lanka – in other words to colonise the areas where tamil-speaking people are in the majority. that would be a recipe for communal strife in the future. the rajapaksa government is, in fact, a dictatorship with a very thin democratic veneer. i welcome the opportunity through this resolution to condemn it. i do have a reservation about paragraph 4 because the main terrorism, in fact, has come from the rajapaksa government against the people. while, as a socialist, i believe that guerrillaism under the conditions in sri lanka will not bring a solution, the tamil people do have a right to defend themselves against military repression. the best way to defend the tamil people is through a united struggle of tamil and sinhala workers and poor against the current government and its new liberal policies, and through the socialist transformation of sri lankan society, under which the marvellous resources of that country could be used for the benefit of the entire population. i am proud to be associated with the united socialist party in sri lanka, which is a sister party of the socialist party in ireland, and which has heroically stood up against the chauvinism of the government for the rights of the tamil and sinhala people and the rights of the tamil people to self-determination.
mr president, i am very pleased as an irish mep that my colleagues from ireland, joe higgins and proinsias de rossa, have outlined various concerns in sri lanka and iran, and i concur with them. it is appropriate that ireland should be concerned about these issues because it saw discrimination and loss of life in northern ireland for many years. nevertheless, at the end of the day, the only solution comes through diplomacy and discussion. for that reason, i would hope that when the lisbon treaty is enacted the new powers and the status which the president and the high representative have will be utilised to bring, hopefully, common sense and good understanding to these places so that they will mend their ways and commit to the diplomatic and democratic way of life.
madam president, in ireland they are asking us whether there is great excitement now that the lisbon treaty has been ratified. in truth, i tell them there is not because it took so long and the birth and delivery were so difficult. there is relief and some pleasure but a realisation, as there is in this debate, that the real work begins now and that it is a tough job to appoint the right people. it is not about jobs for the boys and girls, but about appointing the right people for all of those very important positions that have been created. i am sorry that it is taking extra time to do that because it does delay the final formation of all the institutions – and we have a lot of work to do – but perhaps it is better that we have that slight delay and get the right people in place. the top jobs, as we have described them, are important, and they will require people with commitment, dedication and a desire to improve the european union, not just to be in a job. lastly, on strong institutions, mr barroso is absolutely right. you need to hear what we are saying in this parliament. listen carefully. we are the closest to our electorate. we are directly elected.
madam president, it is a great honour for me, like my colleague, mrs mcguinness, to be here today on the 20th anniversary of the fall of the wall and on the eve of the lisbon treaty coming into being. this is a privilege, especially as ireland voted by 67% in favour of the lisbon treaty which was a reflection of the endorsement of the work of the european union over many years. in years to come, people will also look at the dismantling of the ussr and see that civil wars were not widespread as a result, as happened in so many countries, my own country included, when peace and freedom came to the country but led to civil war. historians will point to the role of the european union in offering support and guidance and comfort to these countries so that civil war did not follow on a widespread basis. finally, there has been much talk about the names of people to fill the functions of president and high representative. i think we should also look at the title. if the president is not a president per se, then say he is a chairman; why not call him a chairman? having three presidents is confusing for the public.
madam president, i would like to say first of all how pleased i was to attend the development days in stockholm and to congratulate the presidency on the way those days were organised. i took part in a debate recently on the irish public service radio, rté, with a woman who was very concerned that we were cutting health spending and not doing enough to cut back on development aid spending. i had to explain that it was not a matter of either/or but that it was a matter of both. we can do both. i would urge, given that we are concentrating so much on the need for recovery in europe and the need to deal with the crisis we find ourselves in – which of course must be at the top of our domestic agenda – that we do not lose sight of the fact that 11 million children are dying each year in the developing world, five million of them because they do not have medicines we have had for 30 years. so please keep that at the top of the agenda and make sure, when we appoint the new person in charge of external relations, that dealing with this issue remains one of our key objectives. well done on what you have done so far.
in writing. – our european leaders failed yet again to break the deadlock in the negotiations for the conference in copenhagen. of course this summit was spun in the media as a success, when in truth we got nothing but waffle. our european leaders had the chance to make a just and credible offer of financing to the developing world to cover the costs of climate change, which is affecting their countries the most but is caused by us in the developed world. this summit did not meet the standard set by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of this parliament and by civil society around the world, which have called for no less than eur 30 billion to be pledged by the eu and, crucially, for a firm commitment that this would be new and additional to existing overseas development aid. copenhagen or no copenhagen, climate change will be with us for decades to come. this is the biggest test so far of the 21st century. we must reach a legally binding agreement in copenhagen, and for that, we need from our european leaders real political courage and less of the waffle.
mr president, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is to be thanked for highlighting this important issue, the implementation of the services directive. in particular, the economic crisis which we are in must not be allowed to be used by countries, entrepreneurs or anybody else to drive us back to protectionism, which would be a disaster in the overall context. on the broader front, trade in services can be the driving force for economic recovery and, indeed, ireland has prospered since we engaged in foreign trade. the new crisis would be far worse in ireland if we did not have the broader base to trade internationally, facilitated by the internal market. indeed, opening up our borders to foreign competition has not brought any negative consequences for domestic services. it has, in fact, fostered competition and innovation. so, what has been proposed today is something i support 100%. finally, i would just like to say that it was good to hear somebody here say something good about the irish commissioner, charlie mccreevy, who is a friend of mine although he is from a different political grouping.
madam president, as a former health-care professional of over 30 years, it was distressing to learn that parliament would not be consulted regarding the commission’s new proposals on alzheimer’s disease. however, we must move on. as europe’s population becomes older, the impact of alzheimer’s will become deeper too. the number of alzheimer’s cases worldwide is predicted to grow from 35 million today to 107 million cases in 2050. one of the most harrowing aspects of alzheimer’s disease is the many people it affects apart from the patient. in ireland, for example, there are 50 000 listed carers to cater for ireland’s 44 000 sufferers. this disease is often called a family disease because of the chronic stress of watching a loved one slowly decline. the further role of the european parliament in the fight against alzheimer’s disease should not be discounted. any new direction by the eu should take account of parliament’s unique voice on the matter and should move to assist not just alzheimer’s sufferers but also the many carers who work to increase their quality of life.
madam president, obviously, coordinating research in this area is really important, and this is not just about alzheimer’s disease, as the term ‘neurodegenerative’ covers a multitude of diseases. parliament actually has a very significant role to play in how that research will be done. i draw attention to the ongoing discussions between parliament and the council on the issue of the welfare of animals used in scientific experimentation. i am concerned – and hopeful, because of our rapporteur and the direction of the talks – that we continue to allow necessary research using animals in a way that is more welfare-friendly than perhaps it is now. this is because we need research in this area in order to do the things that have been spoken about to prevent, and to treat people – and we may be amongst them ourselves in time – who unfortunately may be affected by these diseases. i hope we can have an early agreement at second reading on this very important directive. while we may not have had a great input into this particular issue, we will have had one into the ongoing research.
in writing. – i support this resolution welcoming the proposed pilot project for joint programming of research activities in the field of neurodegenerative diseases. neurodegenerative diseases such as alzheimer's and parkinson's disease affect more than seven million citizens of the european union. no cures are currently available for neurodegenerative diseases and knowledge about prevention, treatment, and identification of risk factors is very limited. indeed, most of the research effort in the field of neurodegenerative diseases is carried out by member states, with a relatively low level of transnational coordination, leading to fragmentation and limited sharing of knowledge and best practices among member states. joint programming could be highly valuable in reducing fragmentation of the research effort, leading as it would to a pooling of a critical mass of skills, knowledge and financial resources. however, article 182(5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as inserted by the treaty of lisbon, which establishes measures necessary for the implementation of the european research area, could provide a more appropriate legal basis for future joint programming initiatives in the field of research. the commission should consider using article 182(5) as a legal basis for all future proposals for joint programming of research activities.
madam president, eur 465 million has been allocated to the leader funding programme in ireland for the period 2007 to 2013. however, just two years into the five-year programme, only 18% of project funding has been spent because the local development companies who manage the projects have found themselves caught up in red tape and excessive bureaucracy. there are reams of pages of rules, accompanied by an extensive inspection procedure. part of the problem is that interpretation of the myriad rules can vary from one inspector to another. the other part of the problem is that some of the rules are mindless in the first place. one project worker said that he spent 50% of his time recording what he was doing in the other 50%. of course we need accountability, but it has reached a stage where there is now a disincentive for local groups to apply for funding. millions will go unspent, which would be criminal given the need to kick-start our economies with whatever funding is available. we need common sense in dublin, and we need to ensure that the european commission ensures that this happens.
madam president, today the eu commission is demanding of the irish government savage cuts in ireland’s budget, involving the slashing of public services and the living standards of working people, possibly even for pensioners and the unemployed. the commission should know, however, that it is conspiring with the irish government in a lie to pretend that the money given to bail out the banks is not a state aid, while at the same time hammering the public sector. however, irish workers and community activists are fighting back. tens of thousands marched in protest last friday; thousands of workers marched in dublin today; and on 24 november a public-sector workers’ strike is scheduled, in order to stop these attacks. in view of the seriousness of the situation, that should now be upgraded to a 24-hour general strike to bring down this appalling government, which has no mandate for these policies, and to halt the policy of the commission and of the irish government to slash and burn the living standards and services of working people.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the problems in latvia or hungary or romania, which are the three countries of the european union which are currently receiving loans through the balance of payments facility, are problems which have not been created by this parliament, the european commission or the european union; they are problems which have been created by the economic crisis but which have been aggravated by mismanagement and bad policy on the part of the politicians in those countries, because there are countries in the same region of the european union as latvia, or in the same region of the european union as hungary, or in the same region of the european union as romania, which are not having the same problems, which are being able to cope with the crisis under better conditions, with the support of european budgets, through structural and cessation funds, with the protection of membership of the european union and the prospect of integration into the euro, but without having to ask for the balance of payments facility. why did these three countries have to ask for help? why did we have to lend them money? it is not the fault of the commission, parliament or the european union in general, but of the mismanagement of these countries. how are we helping those countries? we are lending them money, and nobody lends without conditions, and we have no authorization from this parliament or the council to lend without conditions. we lend on conditions, and we impose on these countries conditions which are hard, because their situation is extremely difficult, but we say to them: 'do not cut money to confine the structural funds and the cohesion funds; do not take retrogressive measures; do not cut money to harm the weakest.' sometimes we succeed and sometimes, unfortunately, we don't succeed, because it's not up to us, it's up to them. i therefore share your concerns, and not only do i share them, but i am conveying them to those governments on behalf of all of you, and i am also giving them money on behalf of the european union: eur 3.1 billion in loans to latvia and very large sums to romania and hungary. but beware: nobody gives without conditions, and i am not authorized to do so on your behalf, on behalf of the member states, and we cannot, for better or for worse, take decisions which are the responsibility of the governments and parliaments of those countries. what we do is remind the governments and parliaments of those countries: one, of the responsibility for bringing their countries into a crisis that other countries are not suffering so severely; and two, we remind them that there are measures that cannot be taken, and we are not prepared to lend money for measures to be taken that go beyond what is strictly necessary to adjust public finances and put those countries in a position to face their future without having to borrow from the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the eu’s social-protection and social-inclusion process is core to ensuring the achievement of the european union’s strategic goal of sustained economic growth, more and better jobs and greater social cohesion. during an economic crisis, there are increased risks of poverty and social exclusion for many citizens, but particularly for those on the margins of society, for those who become unemployed and for those who rely on the various social safety nets that operate within the different member states. this question asks the commission if it is attempting to mainstream the social protection and inclusion process in the provision of medium-term financial assistance for member states’ balances of payments under council regulation (ec) no 332/2002. i am always sensitive to the imposition of too many conditions and excessive red tape on recipients of assistance, and that goes for member states right down to smes and individuals. however, when that imposition would help to realise a core eu principle such as social inclusion, then it is indeed important. we cannot aspire to a social inclusion process and produce lots and lots of documents outlining how to achieve it, if at the same time we do not ensure that this process is mainstreamed in our initiatives. the commissioner says that we have attached harsh conditions to these loans. but i was not exactly clear as to what these conditions are, and indeed if they include social conditionality. regardless of the circumstances whereby eu funds are disbursed, we cannot wash our hands and hope for the best. we have been asked to trust member states. trusting member states is fine, but trust has always to be earned and if there are concerns, i believe they need to be dealt with.
mr president, the ilo said recently – in june when it launched its global pact for jobs – that the world should look different after the crisis. i fear that is not what is happening. what we should have at the end of this crisis is a more sustainable economy with decent work, with quality public services and fair globalisation, moving towards the implementation of the millennium development goals. but that is not what we are getting. what we are getting is a retrenchment by the banks and by the financiers in europe and around the world who are simply trying to retain their privileges. at the same time that the commission is sanctioning the pumping of billions of euros into the saving of the irish banks, we have an irish government which is planning this very minute to destroy local development, to destroy community development programmes which are supported by the european union. they are setting out to destroy our education system. today we had the launch by the european foundation for living and working conditions of the report entitled restructuring in the recession. if i could just quote two lines here: ‘ideally it would be preferable to ensure that measures to address the immediate problems caused by the recession are aligned with long-term goals’. surely the commission should be insisting that all member states should at least seek to do that.
mr president, it is interesting – if somewhat depressing – to listen to the discussion and debate here this evening, particularly when the european union is acting in good faith in trying to help countries in difficulties. our own country, ireland, has benefited to a certain extent, and particularly the globalisation funds, which should be upcoming, are an example of that. at the same time, one wonders how, when money is made available to these countries under what are described as harsh conditions, there is maladministration taking place. one would imagine that part of those harsh conditions would be to ensure that there would not be maladministration and, if there was, that there would be a correction put in place. can the commission ensure that these funds can either be cut off or withdrawn or some fines or other put in place? because it is not acceptable that, if something is given – as my colleague, ms harkin said – on trust, that trust is not returned. secondly – and finally – we will never get to the situation that proinsias de rossa spoke about of having a better society post-depression than we have now.
mr president, in many cases we already have country-of-origin labelling for food and other products, so this is not new. the trouble with some of the labelling of food products is that it is not always accurate, so, whatever we do on this proposal, let us be able to test the veracity of a label, i.e. that what it says on the label is accurate, so that consumers can get the information that they are looking for. one specific question: i had a call from a manufacturer who works within the european union asking me if the commission, council and parliament are looking at a ‘made in the european union’ label which would enable them to promote the fact that they are producing within the european union. could the commissioner perhaps address that point for me please?
mr president, this whole matter has caused a lot of problems, particularly in the agricultural sector in ireland. almost every time i hear the leader of the farmers’ union, padraig walshe, speak, he refers to the difficulty of having proper, accurate labelling, as mrs mcguinness said. it seems that products can be imported into ireland, reprocessed by adding spices or whatever to them, and passed off as of irish origin. this is a gross deception of the consumer, and i think that everybody is entitled to know the country of origin, rather than the country of processing, of every product. can i take it that this practice is about to end, and that we can have clear and accurate labelling so that we will know exactly which country every product comes from?
mr president, i want to congratulate the rapporteur on a very comprehensive report, and the ombudsman and his staff. the service is improving year on year. a job well done. however, when you read through a report and you agree with its contents and then in the explanatory statement you see a substantial paragraph which relates to yourself, you cannot ignore it. what, of course, i am referring to is the paragraph where the ombudsman criticises parliament because, back in 2005, it rejected a request for information about the allowances paid to maltese meps. of course, the real issue was that, if that information was released, then information regarding all our allowances would have to be revealed. as far as i am concerned, this is public money, and the public have a right to know how it is spent. we have published the amounts paid to farmers under the cap, yet we are not publishing our own travel expenses and other allowances. as far as i am concerned, they are legitimate costs. they are incurred in doing our job on behalf of citizens. again, my allowances for staff, for office, for travel etc. in order to represent my constituents are entirely legitimate, and i do not need to apologise for them and i do not need to conceal them. i am not suggesting that the privacy of my staff be compromised in any way: it does not need to be. but i am saying very clearly that, until we allow freedom of information on our allowances and expenses, citizens will see parliament as a place which preaches transparency but does not enforce it in its own house. i know individual members can and do publish their expenses on their websites, but we as a parliament have a collective responsibility to make the information available. maybe it sounds like i am taking the high moral ground; i am not. i am merely saying it will happen, and it would be better that parliament facilitate it rather than be pushed to do so.
mr president, i would like to begin by complimenting mrs paliadeli on her excellent report. all of us in this chamber are playing a role in what we might call ‘citizens’ trust building’. however, it is extremely important that we build our european institutions on the visions and ideas of those selfsame citizens and on what they believe democracy should be. the function of the office of the ombudsman has never been more important and the work of that office must be commended. however, we must recognise that the lack of transparency, and our citizens’ view of this, still remains a major issue, especially in the commission. while i welcome the development of the new website, i do not believe it is the be all and end all. after all, over one third of complaints relating to european institutions are related to the issue of the lack of transparency. if the promises made to the irish people, and indeed to all european citizens, during the course of the lisbon treaty are to be achieved, then it will be necessary for every institution in europe to be made more transparent and seen to be operating behind a pane of glass. this report is a progressive step towards that goal, although more work must be done, especially on the issue of cooperating with national ombudsmen’s offices and on that of the manner in which this parliament operates.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution opposing the draft proposed by the commission for the progress annual plan of work for 2010 because the commission has clearly overstepped its power. it has attempted to reallocate budgetary resources from the progress programme to the microfinance facility before the european parliament has reached a decision. the commission must respect parliament's prerogative and wait until all three institutions, european parliament, council and commission have reached agreement on the microfinance facility before submitting a draft progress annual plan of work.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because of the importance of tackling alzheimer’s disease in europe. as a member of the committee on environment, public health and food safety, i am used to investing time and effort in an issue now in order to benefit future generations. as europe’s population becomes older, alzheimer’s disease is set to become more prevalent across the eu. as such it is crucial that the european parliament tackle this problem now to try and offset some of the damage that this rise in alzheimer’s will cause.
mr president, tomorrow, tens of thousands of public-sector workers in ireland take national strike action. low-paid civil servants, nurses, teachers and local-authority workers are sick of being scapegoated for a crisis in irish and world capitalism and being forced to pay for that crisis, for which they are not responsible. i want, from this european parliament, to send the warmest support to those workers on strike tomorrow. this irish government has no democratic mandate for its savage programme of cuts. i urge workers in ireland to extend the action, to bring down this undemocratic government and force a general election, and let the people decide. the eu council and commission are also culpable in demanding savage cuts in ireland. these institutions have even less credibility this week after another cynical deal between the epp and the social democrats for the presidency, and for appointing as high representative for foreign affairs a lady who was never elected to a public assembly but derived the new position by being placed in a chamber of feudal fossils, as a result of being a labour party british trustee. clearly, workers all over europe have to stand up and fight, themselves, rather than depend on this neo-liberal majority in this chamber.
mr president, we have all heard of the flooding in ireland over the weekend, with considerable damage caused to many homes, to businesses, to farms, to roads and to water schemes. the restoration costs, while much too early to estimate, could be in the region of eur 500 million. however, to put the appropriate measures in place to deal with this type of flooding and to ensure it will not happen again could cost billions. it appears that the european solidarity fund may be too restrictive to deal with this situation. however, i am still hopeful that an application could be considered, but, if not, i suggest that a regional application could be favourably considered, as the north, the west and the south of the country have been affected. many people in my european constituency, including the counties of galway, mayo, clare, leitrim and roscommon, together with the south of ireland, have been affected by the horrendous flooding that has taken place. i am appealing to the commission to assist in a pragmatic and urgent manner. a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl as ucht an deis a thabhairt dom an cheist thábhachtach seo a ardú faoi na tuillte a tharla sa tír.
mr president, as we meet here in strasbourg, half the population of the city of cork, in my constituency of munster, is without water in their homes – and this is 2009! university college cork has had to shut down for an entire week, with many students in my alma mater effectively homeless. shop owners, householders and farmers are facing bills running into hundreds of millions of euros, after the worst flooding witnessed in living memory in cork, tipperary, limerick and galway in particular. following the devastating floods across central europe in 2002, the eu established a solidarity fund to assist member states that had suffered as a result of natural disasters from such flooding. our colleagues in the north-east of romania were the most recent recipients of such aid. the rules state that, in certain circumstances where there are extraordinary regional disasters, this aid can be used. i now call on president barroso and commissioner samecki to look favourably on any application received from ireland for assistance under this fund. in particular, i call on the irish government to contact the commission urgently with a view to submitting an application. it is vital that the eu and parliament extend their support to various communities in ireland who are suffering horrendous damage.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá faoi na tuillte neamhghnácha a tharla in éirinn ag an deireadh seachtaine. colleagues have spoken about the unprecedented flooding that took place in ireland at the weekend. i myself visited some of those places in my own constituency – towns like clonmel, killarney, bandon and, of course, cork city, which is without water for at least another week. university college cork is also closed as a result of unprecedented flooding – perhaps as a result of the climate change which we speak about so often here in parliament. two things need to happen. first, the irish government needs to ensure that it and the local authorities implement the eu floods directive. that is of paramount importance and must be done. second, the irish government should apply to the european union for funding under the european union solidarity fund so that emergency aid can be given to those in most need, as was done in previous times for countries like germany, france, the czech republic and austria.
mr president, i am very pleased with what i have heard here this evening and i would like to compliment the rapporteur and the commissioner for the manner in which they have put their case clearly and succinctly. people have referred to the salient points: the rights of citizens, investment, controls, transparency, consolidation of the single market, a level playing field, accountability, proper competition and consumer protection. that is all very important. mr van nistelrooij said we are writing communications history here this evening. what needs to happen now is that this is transposed as soon as possible into national law and implemented, and the key points are three words: there will be free, fair and fast access to internet for people and businesses, whether they are at the centre of the union or in its outermost regions. we have started to write history. we must now continue to do so and implement it for the good of all citizens. well done!
a uachtaráin, bhí díospóireacht an-mhaith againn ar maidin agus bhí mórán le foghlaim ó na cainteoirí uilig. there are just three points i want to make. firstly, if a binding agreement is not reached in copenhagen, then this parliament and the european union should use its influence to name, shame and tame those countries responsible, so that sanctions can be imposed on them to bring them into line. secondly, there is a need for an educational programme for citizens, as many of them have the willingness to reduce their carbon footprint but may not have the know-how or the economic means. thirdly, funding has been mentioned time and time again here this morning. the point about funding is simple. it is not a question of ‘can we afford to do it?’ but ‘can we afford not to do it?’ time is moving on and there will be no second chance. this is the time it must be done.
madam president, while our expectations of copenhagen at this stage are being lowered, it is also true that our ambitions cannot be lowered. as other colleagues have said, if we could accentuate the positives, both for economies and for citizens, in the climate change debate, there might be more traction – because there are positive sides to this debate. while it may be that no binding agreement comes out of copenhagen, i think there is no doubt that there is a momentum for change, and we have to make sure that this momentum is not lost. on the issue of land use – agriculture and land use change – this is a key area of concern. obviously, agriculture is not only part of the problem but also a big part of the solution. we have to link this debate with our concerns about global food security: the answer is to develop sustainable production systems which manage the climate and also provide us with food security. this is a key part of our concern.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? i would like to thank parliament for a long and intensive debate, and also for the strong and broad commitment that has emerged during the debate. it has been said that the optimism we show must be rooted in real realism. however, i would go further and say that it is actually rooted in real experiences. the eu has succeeded in reducing emissions. we have reduced them by half to where we should be in all circumstances by 2020, and to one third if we are to achieve what we all hope will also be the outcome of the copenhagen agreement, namely a 30% reduction in emissions for the eu. this has been linked, not least, to the creation of common rules established by an internationally binding agreement, the kyoto protocol. that is why we have now committed ourselves so strongly to ensuring that the copenhagen process leads to this legally binding agreement. it will not happen immediately in copenhagen. we'll renegotiate the terms of the agreement. the technical part is to translate this into a legally binding text. the eu wants this to happen within months of the copenhagen conference. i would also like to say that the global financial crisis was certainly not due to too much effort to save the climate. on the contrary, large-scale green investment is also part of the economic change, i.e. towards an increasingly 'green economy', which will also bring countries, both poor and rich, out of the economic crisis. the carbon markets are really the way to create enough room for investment, which means that the polluter pays, we cap emissions and the money that the polluters pay for emissions can also be transferred to developing countries to make green investments there. this is sometimes questioned. you may wonder why we should invest in the cdm, but that is what it means, after all, that polluters have to pay for green investment in developing countries. i think that is good and important, but we also need to reform these rules so that the environmental impact is even greater and clearer, and so that we can be even more certain that this also reaches the poorest of the poor. an agreement will also be necessary to avoid carbon leakage. the concerns that have been expressed must therefore be transferred to even greater commitment if the agreement is to be realised. finally, i think it should be said clearly and unambiguously that if the substance of an agreement in copenhagen is no better than the fact that the eu cannot go up to 30%, that is, if we get such a watered-down result that the eu simply cannot go up to 30% for reasons of decency, then it is a failure. it is therefore also important to state clearly that there is something worse than no number, namely a bad contract. that is why the eu has set the bar so high. that is why our work on the content is so intense. it is also because when we talk about the 2°c target, we are aware that it is the highest level we are going to reach. we know that we are already seeing unacceptable results. for example, speak to the government of the maldives, which recently held its governmental meeting underwater, to show the consequences that are almost inevitably going to be seen in parts of the world. it would be cynical not to act very forcefully. the world has waited long enough. it is high time for the world to reach a much-needed agreement in copenhagen. that is why the involvement of parliament and the eu as a whole is so important.
member of the commission. - madam president, it was a very interesting debate with excellent and constructive interventions. many opinions were heard on various subjects. some may not agree. for example, i cannot understand why anyone would be against green, clean, non-polluting industries which are based on new technologies and which are efficient. but i still heard that today. i cannot understand why anyone would prefer polluting old technology industries which, if they make a profit, it is because they do not pay the cost of pollution; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but in a democracy and in a democratic parliament all views are heard. i would also like to make a comment on the world environment organization; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this can be done relatively easily by upgrading the existing united nations environment programme; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would also like to speak about the kyoto protocol, because there have been a number of reports on this subject. i am happy about the performance of the european union, because all 15 countries that have a collective target of reducing their co2 emissions by 8% over the period 2008-2012 will meet their target, but the europe of 27, with the 10 new countries that have a target and cyprus and malta that do not, will also meet the target. the european union thus has the moral argument that what we say we do, and this has undoubtedly been the case with the measures we have taken either at national or european level, including the carbon trading system. i must stress, as mr andreas carlgren has said, that the european union will achieve even greater reductions than we originally committed ourselves to achieving in accordance with our forecasts, and this with economic growth at the same time. i will mention only one number: between 1990 and 2007, the period for which we have data, economic growth was 44 percent and the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions for the 15 countries was 5 percent, for the 27 countries it was 9 percent. and of course the projections are that by 2012 we will have far exceeded the target, which also makes it easier for us to achieve the 30% reduction target by 2020. it should be noted that in 2008 we also had a significant reduction in greenhouse gases in the european union by 1.6%, while economic growth continued, and only in the latter part of 2008 we had the economic crisis which also had an impact on the issue of greenhouse gases. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. after consultation of the ecofin council, the environment council and the european council, we now have a clear mandate to put forward specific proposals on the sources of funding, on the organisational structures and the criteria to be used in order to determine the serious contributions from all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is broad agreement on the need for global efforts to achieve the 2°c target. it is also a general belief that the main foundations of a climate agreement for the period after 2012 will and must be laid in copenhagen. these pillars are mainly ambitious emission reduction commitments by developed countries, including the united states, adequate measures by developed countries to reduce their emissions growth, and financial assistance to developing countries to mitigate their own emissions and adapt to climate change. we're closing in on the thread. let us make the best of copenhagen and let us crystallize the main commitments of all the countries in an agreement that will be historic. what we have to achieve in copenhagen is a substantial agreement on all the elements of the bali action plan. all these elements must be agreed in copenhagen in a binding way and then, in the next three to six months at the latest, they must be legally processed so that we have the binding agreement which is the aim of the european union and which will secure the objective of limiting the greenhouse effect to 2° celsius. i am sure that the european parliament will support the efforts that will be made in these days, particularly at the crucial meetings in copenhagen, and i would like to thank you again for all the efforts you have made.
in writing. – over the last number of days, ireland has been struck by severe flooding causing devastation for ordinary families, for small businesses and for farmers across the island. flooding from the river barrow, the second longest river in ireland has meant much of carlow has been under water for over four days! the deluge in neighbouring kilkenny is the worst in 60 years! while flooding has always been a fact of life in ireland, its increasing frequency and severity is another real reminder of the effects of climate change caused by the reckless abuse of our environment. no matter what happens at the un climate conference in less than two weeks in copenhagen, extreme weather conditions, like the flooding in ireland, will become more frequent. we must build up our resilience to the effects of climate change. mr. president, i call on the irish government to immediately apply for natural disaster aid relief under the european solidarity fund. the irish people only recently displayed their commitment to the eu by voting strongly for the lisbon treaty, the eu needs to show it commitment to the irish people, including the people of carlow and kilkenny, by fast-tracking these relief funds.
ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leis an gcoimisinéir as ucht an freagra a thug sí. fáiltím roimh an staidéar agus roimh an bhfiosrúchán atá ar siúl ag an údarás eorpach um shábháilteacht bia ar dhéantús an bhia ós rud é go bhfuil sé cruthaithe anois go bhfuil lucht siopadóireachta sásta níos mó airgid a chaitheamh ar bhia a bhfuil buntáistí sláinte ag baint leis. is é an rud is tábhachtaí ag deireadh na dála, go gcaithfimid na rialacha nua a chomhlíonadh agus brú a chur ar na comhlachtaí éagsúla a bheith lán ionraic leis an méid eolais a thugann siad agus nach mbeidh siad ag insint bréag ar bith do na daoine atá ag ceannach na rudaí seo.
i thank the commissioner for her response. can i ask the commissioner whether she is aware that people who, as she mentions, purchase on the internet, say, loyalty cards for hotels, or whatever it happens to be, have real difficulty finding someone to actually take a complaint? there might be some sort of a box number, but rarely a telephone number or proper email address. commissioner, will you require anybody selling goods to have a direct contact number where people who have difficulties can make direct contact with those who have sold them defective goods or services?
let me thank the commissioner for her response and wish her well in whatever she decides to do after this commission. this practice is prevalent throughout the union, that consumers hiring a car feel they have got a reasonable deal – we understand the issue about insurance, which is all important – but are then told that they must return the car empty. there must be some directive which the companies are breaching. i believe it is not sufficient for the commission to say that this can be dealt with by communicating with the consumer centre in various countries. i think this is a major problem. a very clear message should go out that this is extortionist. people who go on holiday often just take a car to their destination and return; i know many of my constituents have used eur 15 worth of petrol but it costs them eur 60. eur 45 is the difference since for the average car it costs eur 60 to fill the petrol tank. this is something i believe we should deal with and i would hope that an incoming commission and commissioner will take responsibility for this and do something practical about it.
i hired a car in frankfurt for my first day in parliament here. the tank was full and was paid for by the company. i had to return it full again. that is straightforward best practice. can the commission ensure or recommend that that practice will be applied right throughout the european union? it is fair, it is transparent and it is proper.
initially, i was a bit taken aback by the opening remarks of the commissioner, but then he clarified the situation. i am quite happy, as he says that the new commission can look at it. there are great opportunities there to develop tourism right throughout the european union, and i am quite happy to work with the commission and to do anything we can because it is an opportunity. it is very important to show that the lisbon treaty works for people and that it creates jobs, particularly in tourism, so i am quite happy with the answer and there is no need for a further answer.
member of the commission. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his support for the commission's proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in response to redundancies in the textile sector in belgium and in the computer industry in ireland. mr rapporteur, your support is accompanied by a number of comments, and i shall confine myself to the budgetary aspects, since we shall have the opportunity later to discuss the other points you mention in your report. the first budgetary item you mention concerns the sources of funding. you remind us that the european social fund must not be the only source of funding. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a specific instrument from a budgetary point of view, as it does not have its own resources. it shall be mobilised over the financial year, in particular by determining the budget lines available and, secondly, by proposing to the budgetary authority the amounts to be mobilised by means of an amending budget. this work is done on a case-by-case basis, depending on the needs. it is true that until now the european social fund has been technically the main source of funding. i want to make it clear and emphasise the word 'technically', that at the end of the financial year the european social fund will not be cut in any way. it's a matter of principle. the second point you mention is not strictly budgetary but rather decisive, since you ask the commission to present its proposals for mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund in separate documents. the commission is well aware of the benefits of this individual approach, which reduces to zero the risk of a collision or of the fund being used as a pawn. however, it is also necessary to take account of the new eligibility criteria that we discussed this year and which you have approved. with these new criteria, a significant increase in the number of applications is to be expected in the coming months and it is not certain that the examination of the relevant documents will be quicker if they are submitted individually. however, in any event, the commission notes that, regardless of this risk, the more advantageous approach, for a certain technical complexity of the work, is a case-by-case approach which is of a higher quality, and therefore the commission has noted your interest and fully agrees to adapt its procedures on the basis of the next financial periods. so in both cases, i think i can make myself clear as i have. as regards the second question, the commission welcomes the adoption by parliament of the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to support redundant workers in the textile industry in belgium and in the computer industry in ireland. in this context, the question of a possible link between the relocation of businesses within the european union, the role of the european union financial instruments and the commission's control of state aid was raised. firstly, the commission is aware of and sensitive to the negative consequences of relocation of businesses for workers, their families and the region. however, the commission is not required to intervene in the decision-making of companies, unless community law has been infringed. the commission also recalls that it has no power to prevent or delay individual companies from taking decisions and that companies have no general obligation to inform the commission as to the legality of their decisions. in this context, the commission is also aware of the concern that regional state aid, including possible contributions from the structural funds, could be used as a means to divert business investment from other regions. the commission recalls that the objective of the community rules on state aid is, inter alia, to ensure that aid intended to influence the choice of location of investments by companies is granted only to disadvantaged regions and is not used to the detriment of other regions. this issue is also addressed in the regulation laying down general provisions on the structural funds and the cohesion fund and in the regional aid guidelines for the period 2007-2013 in order to ensure that these investments make a real and sustainable contribution to regional development. according to article 57 of the general regulation on the structural funds, member states must ensure that the project preserves the investment for which the grant was granted for five years after its completion and for three years for projects in smes. where the project is modified as a result of a change in ownership of the infrastructure or the cessation of production activities and this modification affects the nature of the project or the conditions under which it is carried out, or where this modification confers a disproportionate advantage on the firm or public authority, the grant must be returned. member states are required to inform the commission of such substantial changes each year in their reports on the implementation of operational programmes. the commission shall inform the other member states. in addition, during the 2007-2013 programming period, special legal provisions were introduced to ensure that undertakings subject to a procedure for the recovery of undue payments following a transfer of production activity within a member state or to another member state cannot receive a contribution from the funds. similarly, point 40 of the rag stipulates that the aid must be conditional on the investment concerned remaining in the region concerned for at least five years after its completion. moreover, if the aid is calculated on the basis of wage costs, the jobs must be filled within three years of the completion of the project. all jobs created by the investment must be maintained within the region concerned for a period of five years from the date on which the jobs were first filled. in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, member states may limit this period to three years. these provisions aim to avoid a subsidy-driven and plant closure motivated exclusively by a higher level of public support elsewhere, taking into account that state aid is only one of the factors influencing a company's relocation decision and that other factors such as wages, skills, taxes and geographical location usually play a more significant role. ladies and gentlemen, i think it is clear that it is right and natural to discuss the use of european money at the strategic level, there is no doubt about that. let me conclude by saying that the money that has been or will be used under the european globalisation adjustment fund is going to the people who are affected, that is to say, to the individual workers in belgium, ireland or any other european country, and not to the company. it's a fund designed to support people, individuals, not companies.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to the cases we have to deal with in the globalisation adjustment fund, for which we are working, of course, in the interests of employees to develop their employability when unemployment hits their economic sector. but let us return to the case of dell, which mrs berès was asked to discuss. the irish plant is focused on the production of desktop computers. at the moment when we in the commission are supporting the setting up in poland of a factory of the same company focused on the production of laptops, then it is announced, at that moment, because the market is made that way and there is a higher demand for laptops, that the irish production unit is going to be closed down. the choice between the two production sites foreshadowed the difficulties we were going to face for irish employees. we have therefore asked the commission, in our working group on the globalisation adjustment fund, to be vigilant in examining each case, with regard to all the aid given to each unit, whether at european level or regional aid, because the european support policies we are developing must not be used in an unbalanced way and come back as a boomerang against the employees. we therefore want to see more vigilance in advance on these problems, to avoid problems for employees.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, on 8 january 2009, the mid-west of ireland, and especially limerick, tipperary and north kerry, experienced an economic trauma they had never seen before. the announcement of over 2 000 jobs leaving the region from dell, together with thousands of ancillary jobs, represented a loss of historic proportions. the eu, through the globalisation fund, has allocated a fund that will directly help the economically vulnerable in the area. when we vote tomorrow, the eur 14.8 million will represent a hand-up and not a hand-out to over 2 400 people to help them restart their lives. this will be very welcome. the money will be used to re-train workers, help start businesses and provide people with job placements, which are very necessary. the very fact that we have dell workers’ committee representatives here tonight watching this shows just how deeply this fund has reached the workers of dell and how they welcome it so much. i must, however, stress that we are only halfway there. we now have 18 months in which to spend it, and i am calling tonight on our local minister in ireland, the minister for enterprise coughlan, to personally intervene and see that there is a plan in place to spend the money. it is a one-off fund for ordinary working people and they will never get this chance again. minister coughlan, please, please get organised and leverage this unique opportunity for the mid-west of ireland. i would like to thank the members, and especially my own colleagues, for their support for the dell application and ask as well that they will support further applications in similar circumstances coming down the road from waterford crystal and sr technics.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my first comment is that the european globalisation adjustment fund is a real expression of solidarity between eu citizens and states. secondly, as an irish member i am indeed very pleased that the workers in dell who have been made redundant at least now have an opportunity to look forward and to plan for the future. however, as alan kelly has said, it is very important to ensure that any programmes or training courses that are put in place are tailor-made to respond to the needs of workers and that the possibility of re-entering the labour market, or setting up one’s own business, is the clear objective of any assistance. finally, i want to acknowledge the role of parliament in approving the fund for dell workers. despite some of the very serious issues that have been raised here this evening, we did not hold the workers hostage and we approved the eur 14.8 million application. however, the commission must ensure that there is coherence in eu industrial policy and that the eu budget is not used to increase shareholder value in some companies, while eu workers pay a price.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ba mhaith liom m’fhíorbhuíochas a chur in iúl don choimisiún as ucht an ciste fial flaithiúil seo a chur ar fáil do na daoine atá dífhostaithe in dell. go háirithe, cuirim fáilte roimh gerry agus denis atá tagtha anseo anocht. without doubt, great credit is due to the european union and particularly to the commission for helping the workers in dell and i would like to pay tribute to them. also to former colleagues, two of whom are here tonight, marian harkin and brian crowley, and also my immediate predecessor, colm burke, for initiating this fund back in may. the commission made two major changes which were very important to us: reducing the 50/50 funding from 35 for the national government and 65 for the commission and also reducing the numbers from 1 000 to 500, which will hopefully make funding available to people in waterford crystal and sr technics in due course. there are two caveats i would add. one is that the two-year extension of the time-span should be extended to three, because many people will be doing third-level degree courses which normally take three years; and the second is that the commencement date should not be the date of application but the date of signing-off here in parliament and council. having said that there are just two points i want to make. people are very grateful for what has happened. you have given hope where there was despair. you have shown solidarity instead of isolation, and this fund will be well used and i have no doubt it may well be the best fund and the best funding ever given by the european commission. thank you very much indeed.
mr president, like my colleagues, i want to thank the commissioner and the rapporteur for their work on this. indeed, the commission will remember back in january when i and one of my former colleagues, colm burke, met him to try and kick-start the globalisation fund for the workers in dell. i think it is a clear indication of how much we, at european union level, put in with regard to treating people first, ensuring that the people are at the core of what the policies are, trying to ensure that their lives are protected and, when there is trouble or difficulty, that the european union can respond quickly. on a personal level, i want to thank the commissioner personally for his active involvement in this, not just here in parliament or with me personally, but also for going to limerick and meeting the workers. and if i could say to other colleagues, who occasionally try to raise red herrings with regard to other issues, that the globalisation fund, for all its faults, is a positive from the european union and one that we should be encouraging to grow and to prosper and, most importantly of all, to go back to the old saying: give a man a fish, you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish, he can feed himself for life. that is what the globalisation fund allows us to do.
mr president, a few weeks ago i was at the meeting of the delegation for relations with canada. they were discussing a free trade agreement which the european union was conducting with canada. prior to that, we here in parliament were discussing a free trade agreement with south korea. tonight we are discussing a free trade agreement in the euromed. could the commission answer how many free trade agreements we are negotiating or have negotiated up to now? secondly, where is the net benefit to the european union countries? thirdly, where are the opportunities for businesses and entrepreneurs from a job creation and economic point of view? finally, i am not necessarily agreeing with the points made by the earl of dartmouth, but i would like to hear his core question answered, leaving aside the personalities.
mr president, it has been stated that eur 200 million was spent on this area in 2009. i wonder, would the commission consider only funding, from a safety and interoperable point of view, rail systems that are operated electrically, and phase out over a period of time diesel-guzzling locomotives – i know in my own country all the rail systems are operated thus – and set a target date to have safe, interconnected and environmentally friendly rail systems across the entire european union?
in writing. – i welcome the positive attitude of the european commission and acknowledge that progress has been made with regard to the recognition of minority languages, however much remains to be done if we are to place minority languages on an equal level with the prominent languages within the eu. currently irish is only interpreted into english in the plenary session and i have had to stop mid one minute speech (while speaking in irish) and revert to english due to lack of translation facilities. adequate training for irish translators is currently only available in national university of ireland, galway (nuig) and the professional bar organisations in ireland, while this outlines progress i am calling on the commission to provide further funding to establish other recognised irish translation courses - so that an adequate number of irish interpreters will be available in order to enable the european institutions to offer a complete irish translation service as outlined in rule 146 in the parliament's rules of procedures. as you said "we cannot consolidate our inter-cultural dialogue without multilingualism" and multilingualism cannot arise without adequate training facilities.
a uachtarán, ar son na héireann ba mhaith liom cúpla focal a rá ar an ócáid stairiúil seo don aontas eorpach. the lisbon treaty coming into being, particularly on the foot of the 67% vote in favour by the irish people, is a great boost to everybody in the european union. i think this is reflective of the support there is amongst the citizens for the good work that the european project has done over many years. unfortunately the appointment of the president and the high representative has brought a lot of negative criticism which i think is somewhat unfair. firstly, when people are appointed to office, they should be given some time to settle in and they should be judged by results and not by preconceived notions of their ability to do the job. in the case of mr van rompuy, it has been said of him that he is a consensus builder and an effective negotiator, as if these were negative attributes. these are very important attributes in the times we live in. what do we want? a presidential-style guru strutting the world stage, causing trouble? a destroyer, a disrupter? no, what we need now is a good, effective, sensible chairman and i think we have got that. i wish him well. as regards baroness ashton, it has been said she was never elected to office and that is true, but that in itself does not reflect one way or another on her qualities as a person or as an effective politician. i only saw her in action here since i came here and in particular i questioned her on the trade agreement with south korea and i thought she acquitted herself very well. i think some of the comments made today unfortunately by mr farage were over the top, but at this stage i am becoming aware of the fact that mr farage is like a long-playing record. he keeps repeating the same political agenda, harking back to the days of rule, britannia! and nation fighting nation. those days are over. the european union is the greatest peace process ever known. it shall continue to do so and we parliamentarians must work hard to ensure that that is the way it is going to be from now on.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé ar son an rialacháin seo maidir le lipéadú bonn i leith éifeachtachta breosla. tá éifeachtacht fuinnimh rí-thábhachtach ó thaobh inbhuaine comhshaoil de agus ó thaobh acmhainní finideacha a chaomhnú. cabhróidh lipéadú faisnéiseach soiléir le tomhaltóirí na heorpa roghanna níos fearr a dhéanamh amach anseo. ní amháin go mbeidh na roghanna sin bunaithe ar chostas, ach beidh siad bunaithe ar éifeachtacht bhreosla chomh maith. buntáiste eile a bhainfidh le lipéadú den chineál seo ná go gcuirfidh lipéadú ar bhoinn fhliuchghreama le sábháilteacht ar bhóithre.
in writing. − i support this allocation of €14.8 million of european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) support to the 2,840 workers of dell in limerick who have lost their jobs following the closure of their plant because, rather than dell, it will benefit the redundant workers directly. indeed, it appears that while dell was closing its manufacturing plant in ireland, it received €54.5 million in state aid from the polish government to open a new plant in lodz. this state aid was approved by the european commission. what consistency is there at the heart of this policy followed by the commission? it effectively exempts dell from facing the social consequences of its strategy and allows companies engage in a race to the bottom supported by both member state and eu funds. clarity on the coordination of the european commission's policy on state aid and social policy is urgently needed.
in writing. − i welcome the decision of the european parliament to approve aid for the dell workers under the european globalisation adjustment fund. the redundancies at dell have seriously affected the local limerick economy and surrounding areas. we must put in place appropriate re-training measures to ensure that the people who lost their jobs at dell can secure employment in the near future. the approval of the irish application for aid under the european globalisation adjustment fund will contribute to the re-training and up-skilling of the workers in question.
in writing. − today the european parliament endorsed a 14 million euro fund which is to go towards the training of 1,900 dell workers who were made redundant by the decision to move the plant from ireland to poland. this fund can provide for those who have lost their jobs to retrain and acquire qualifications to get back into the workforce. the fund will act as a hand-up rather than a handout; as the money will be forwarded to third level colleges in the munster region to pay the tuition fees of former dell employees. the approval of this fund represents a key example of europe's commitment to helping ireland out of the recession. the fund should help slow the trend of increasing unemployment in munster and will provide a major boost for the local economy as those affected by the closure of the dell plant return to the workforce.
in writing. − it is extremely important that the eu takes action and becomes a world leader in reducing carbon emissions approaching the copenhagen summit. the parliament has already shown more ambition than the member states in relation to a reduction in carbon emissions, and today’s resolution is to be welcomed with calls for real financing, calls for strong targets in the high end from 25-40% in line with the science, and the insistence on a legally binding agreement.
in writing. − the effects of climate change are being felt now: temperatures are rising, icecaps and glaciers are melting and extreme weather events are becoming more frequent and more intense. the un estimates that all but one of its emergency appeals for humanitarian aid in 2007 were climate related. we need a global energy revolution towards a sustainable economic model, which provides for environmental quality to go hand in hand with economic growth, wealth creation and technological advancement. ireland's per capita carbon emission is 17.5 tonnes per annum. by 2050 this will need to be reduced to 1 or 2 tonnes of carbon. clearly, this means radical change in the production and consumption of energy. the first step is a comprehensive agreement in copenhagen binding the international community to mandatory reductions and providing for sanctions at international level for non-compliance. indeed, the international community should show commitment exceeding that shown to tackle the financial crisis. the response to climate change lies in strong international governance and financial commitment. aid to the developing world must be in addition to overseas development aid or risk not attaining the millennium development goals. indeed, climate change will require increased investment in the public sector.
i scríbhinn. − thugas mo chuid tacaíochta don rún seo a iarrann ar an gcoimisiún athbhreithniú a dhéanamh ar an reachtaíocht atá ann faoi láthair agus, ina éagmais sin, reachtaíocht nua a dhréachtú lena gcinnteofar nach mbeidh paisinéirí fágtha i gcás mórdheacrachta de thoradh féimheachta aerlíne. faoi láthair, níl aon fhorálacha ann faoi reachtaíocht na heorpa le cosaint a thabhairt do phaisinéirí eorpacha i gcás féimheachta aerlíne lena bhfuil áirithint déanta ag an bpaisinéir. tacaím go láidir le seasamh chathaoirleach an choiste um iompar agus é ráite aige nach bhfuil mórchuid paisinéirí in acmhainn cailliúintí den sórt sin a sheasamh. mar sin, is ceart go mbunófaí meicníocht um thacaíocht nó ciste cúitimh chun cabhair a thabhairt dóibh siúd a fhágtar i bponc de thoradh féimheachta den chineál seo. caithfear rialacha maidir le cearta paisinéirí a nuashonrú agus a láidriú chun cosaint agus cúnamh a thabhairt i gcás féimheachta aerlíne nó a leithéid de theagmhas nach bhfuil aon neart ag an bpaisinéir air.
a uachtaráin, bhí nasc láidir ann i gcónaí idir an íoslainn agus an aontas eorpach agus mar chathaoirleach ar an toscaireacht um an gcaidreamh leis an éilvéis, an íoslainn, an iorua agus an limistéar eorpach eacnamaíoch, ba chúis mhór áthais a bhí ann domsa fáilte a chur roimh thoscaireacht pharlaiminteach ón íoslainn an tseachtain seo caite. táim ag súil leis go mbunófaí comhchoiste parlaiminteach go luath agus tá rialtas na híoslainne i mbun dlúthchainteanna leis an gcoimisiún i ndiaidh chinneadh airí gnóthaí eachtracha an aontais mí iúil seo caite. táim cinnte go dtabharfaidh ceannairí na heorpa an solas glas chun go dtosófaí idirbheartaíocht idir an aontas agus an íoslainn ag cruinniú mullaigh an earraigh seo chugainn. ós rud é go bhfuil an íoslainn páirteach sa limistéar eorpach eacnamaíoch tá dhá chaibidil is fiche de na caibidilí ar gá a chomhlíonadh clúdaithe aici cheana féin. tá cuid mhaith den obair déanta. táim lándóchasach go dtabharfar aghaidh ar na caibidilí eile ar bhealach dearfach, ar bhealach dírithe agus i spioraid an chairdis
in writing. – today is the international day for the elimination of violence against women. violence against women exists everywhere and among all classes, rich and poor, educated and uneducated, the socially mobile and the marginalised, but a widespread and structural blindness to this problem has persisted. this resolution calls for a targeted and coherent eu policy plan to combat all forms of violence against women, as stated in the eu roadmap for equality between women and men. national laws and policies should be improved through the development of comprehensive national action plans to prevent, protect and prosecute. in ireland last year 1,947 women and 3,269 children were admitted to refuges. over 120 women have been murdered since 1996, a significant number by a partner or ex-partner. eu studies have shown that one woman in five has suffered violence at the hands of her male partner, and that 25% of all violent crime reported in europe involves a man assaulting his wife or partner. domestic violence aims to control and destroy the human spirit. reports of planned cuts of up to 30% by the irish government to some services amply illustrates their lack of real commitment to prevention, protection, and, prosecution.
madam president, during the 2004 european elections, ireland introduced a ban on smoking in the workplace, so we met many irate voters outside restaurants and public houses. they were furious about the ban. but this is 2009, and there has been a huge acceptance that what we did was good for workers, good for employers and good for the public health system. people have come to live with it. this morning i took the healthy option and walked into parliament and i was dismayed to see in cars young parents, with children strapped into the back, smoking cigarettes. there were parents pushing children in buggies, with a cigarette hanging over the child. obviously, we have a lot of work to do to educate adults about the dangers for children. so, i support my colleague, peter liese, in his call for the protection of children. they are so vulnerable, and it is so sad to see that they are exposed to this danger. but let us not demonise smokers. remember that tobacco is a terrible addiction and smokers need all our help and support to kick the habit. those who chose, as others may say, not to kick the habit should carry on with what they wish to do, without doing harm to others, and understand fully the harm that they are doing to themselves. this is a good resolution and, obviously, in ireland, where we are well advanced in this legislation, we are fully supportive.
madam president, firstly i would like to compliment mrs estrela on her initiative. i agree with the points that she made. in ireland, i have also seen the transformation in attitudes to smoking and i have seen a transformation in the habits of irish smokers. i was president of the gaelic athletic association, which is ireland’s largest sporting body. we introduced a ban in our biggest stadium, which can hold 82 500 people. people resisted it but now they accept it. there is a complete change. i have no problem with people smoking but it affects others and that is the problem. passive smoking has basically been eliminated in ireland and adults have also cut back on smoking. many have given it up and also – and more importantly – young people are less inclined to smoke now than they were before. the final point i would make is that, even in terms of their clothes, people find that there is no longer a smell. when you go abroad and go into restaurants, and if you smell smoke, you are inclined to leave, and it is the same for hotel rooms. it is a good initiative and, the sooner it is introduced, the better for everybody. they will not regret it, i can guarantee that.
author. − madam president, i am very happy to support the call for the ratification and implementation of the updated ilo conventions by the eu member states. it is certainly worth saying that, when the ilo was created in 1919 after the treaty of versailles, which ended the first world war, it was to reflect the belief that universal and lasting peace can only be accomplished if it based on social justice. in the intervening 80 years, the ilo has responded to the needs of people all around the globe, for decent jobs, livelihoods and dignity. tonight we are asking all members states of the eu to ratify and implement the updated ilo conventions; but it is not just the authors of this question who are asking – many other agencies and bodies are also. if you look at the united nations supplier code of conduct, you will see that the ilo conventions have served as a foundation on which most of the code of conduct is based, and it is the un’s expectation that any supplier providing goods and services to the un will adhere to the principles of the code of conduct. therefore these conventions need to be ratified and implemented across the globe so that all suppliers can adhere to them. surely we can manage that in the eu. the european commission, in its communication on the renewed social agenda, states: ‘the commission calls upon all member states to set an example by ratifying and implementing the ilo conventions that are up to date’. in a resolution on the renewed social agenda approved by the last european parliament in may of this year, again we state that we consider that strengthening of the implementation and enforcement of existing labour law under national and community law and under ilo conventions must be a priority for eu institutions and member states. so, tonight, we in parliament are reinforcing all of those calls. we are asking the presidency-in-office to be as ambitious as possible on the matter, we are calling on member states to consider the strong social arguments for ratifying and implementing these conventions, and we are asking the commission to consider the adoption of a recommendation to the member states to encourage the ratification of conventions that are up to date. we also believe that the eu must ensure coherence between its internal and external policies. in this parliament we hear again and again about exchanging best practice between member states. surely this is a prime example of where we can achieve best practice among ourselves by all member states ratifying the relevant conventions and promote best practice externally or globally by, as the commission itself suggests, setting an example by ratifying the up-to-date conventions. today, 25 november, 7 650 ilo conventions have been ratified globally, with 47 in the last 212 months. we expect europe to lead the way on climate change in copenhagen; we could do similar good work with the ratification of all ilo conventions.
madam president, the ilo, as colleagues have said, has been around for a long time – since 1919: 90 years of business and still working on the decent work agenda. it is important that member states, as others have said, ratify all of the conventions, especially at a time of economic crisis when workers are under pressure. but i think it is also important in this debate to acknowledge the role of the ilo in the developing world and its links with non-governmental organisations and the many programmes which it runs particularly targeting the most vulnerable, for example working with people with a disability who would never have any opportunity if it were not for these programmes. also, two very important areas that we talk about in this house: forced labour and child labour. so if we are looking to the ilo to do good work, as it does, in the developing world, i think the very least that member states of the european union could do is to fully ratify the conventions, to lead by example.
madam president, as one of the authors of this report, can i first thank the political groups, who worked very closely together to come up with a text which does not have amendments to it; i think we should all be very pleased with that. we have different opinions on many things, but i think, on the general point of wanting to do the right thing to assist in feeding the hungry of the world, this text is a step in the right direction. i was also the author of a report on global food security and the cap in the previous mandate, so i have worked very hard on this issue. can i make one very simple point, which seems to escape many: it is farmers who will feed the world if they are given the right climate – and i mean that in the broadest context – to do that particular job. the rest of us will talk about it. it is our responsibility to develop and put in place the policies to allow our farmers to produce food. they will respond if they have two basic elements: one is decent prices and the other is stable incomes. the recent volatility has hit both of those and farming cannot survive on that. lest i run out of time – and as one of the authors i beg your forbearance on this – please do not demonise the common agricultural policy. some of the arguments made now are historic and out of date; we have reformed absolutely this policy and perhaps without the cap we might have greater problems of food insecurity within the european union. why do we not adopt the best parts of it and ask the developing world to take onboard a common agricultural policy? because let us be very tough on this: we should not let the developing world’s governments off the hook; it is their responsibility to use the development aid properly; it is our responsibility to ensure that more money is spent and invested in agriculture. i think it is time to stop pussyfooting around this issue and be tough with governments and tough with ourselves. we have a moral responsibility and we are prepared to take it on board.
madam president, i would like to ask the previous speaker to be specific about what export refunds. i made this point in my speech, and i accept that in the past damage was done through export refunds and that europe has now reformed its agricultural policy. however, when we introduced export refunds for the dairy sector last year, the only country which complained was new zealand, which is not a developing country. can i please ask for an example of where this is currently a problem.
author. − madam president, i just want to comment on two matters raised in the debate so far. first, the link between hunger and climate change. as ban ki-moon said in rome, at a time when the global population is growing and our global climate is changing, by 2050 we will need to produce 70% more food, yet the weather is becoming more extreme and unpredictable. so any positive efforts we make on climate change will impact positively on food production. another issue raised once again is the easy option: blame the cap – as if the cap were responsible for all of the ills of the developing world. the cap is not perfect, but it has been reformed. if we want our farmers to continue producing and ensure food security for europe, we cannot, by regulation and withdrawal of support, literally force them out of business. for example, has anybody done a study on the recent reform of the sugar industry in the eu to see if the decimation of the eu sugar industry has benefited those in third world countries or if it has just benefited the sugar barons and landowners while leaving the small sugar growers in poverty? in no way do i want to minimise the issue of world hunger, but we need to ensure that when we put forward solutions to the problem, they actually do alleviate it.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, when it comes to the issue of meat imports, we in europe must nail down the principles which form our policy on this, and have a strong but fair system of regulation. those principles must be based on consumer safety and trust, protection of the environment and – vitally – a fair playing field for producers of meat. currently, the system is operating in a way that is blatantly unfair for both farmers and consumers. we are forcing our farmers to go through a range of time-consuming and costly practices, only to allow them to be undercut by meat products from outside the eu, with brazil being a prime example. there is huge evidence from the fvo in relation to this. this situation is simply unsustainable. farm practices in brazil are, in many cases, simply not up to the standard that is known and acceptable to european consumers. if we are not careful, the incentive to produce high-quality, safe meat will disappear because we are allowing inferior quality products to undermine prices and farmers’ incomes. also, naturally, owing to the way the food chain is integrated, once you have meat in the system it will disperse across a wide range of products and become untraceable. how is that fair to consumers in europe? beef producers across europe are getting it in the neck, and the situation cannot last for them or consumers. there is no faith that the new measures implemented recently are actually being taken stock of. there are many examples of claims of cattle being produced and put through farms that are approved, when they do not actually originate from those farms. commissioner, i am not advocating protectionism in any way, but it is time to act. we cannot stand idly by and let this practice continue. it is simply unfair. it is unfair for european consumers and it is unfair for producers in europe, who are having to take on practices which at the same time are not being accepted, and are not practised, by producers in brazil.
madam president, as one of the co-authors of this question, can i just support jim nicholson’s plea, regretting that the socialists, in particular, who are now crying crocodile tears about this issue for populist reasons, refused to support a resolution on this important issue. sometimes late at night we get cross, but sometimes it is justified. commissioner, thank you for your very long and detailed presentation, which i appreciate very much, but can i just say that you missed the elephant in the room. i will be blunt. you were forced to act only because of pressure from, and action by, the irish farmers’ association, which was reported in the irish farmers’ journal and followed up by this house. political pressure brought you to your senses. i listened in detail to your speech, took notes and will read it again. however, i really would like you to accept that you were forced to act. can i draw your attention to your own figures: it is quite staggering that in 2007 there were 10 000 farms eligible to export while currently only 1 700 are approved to export. does that tell us that the others should not have been exporting at all? there are serious questions which we raise and rightly raise in this house about this importation. i have a little time left, so let me stretch this with two points. i do not have faith in the current commission to deal adequately and responsibly with this issue. however, i am putting the next college of commissioners – both president and members – on notice that i and others in this house will pursue this to the very end, because we have got to persuade and cajole our producers to meet high standards. they will revolt in time if they see that those standards are debased by imports from third countries. you may not realise the anger that is on the ground, but let me tell you it is there. we will also face this issue over cereal imports, with tighter pesticide regulations in europe, and we will face it on animal welfare regulations when we ban caged-egg production in a few years’ time and imports of powdered egg from small cages. rest assured, commissioner, that it may be late but we are wide awake, and the next commission had better beware.
madam president, the commissioner said we cannot impose the same standards, but we must ensure they have an equivalent effect. she spoke of eu traceability from farm to table, but she also told us that in third countries, the scope of traceability is much more limited. if the scope is much more limited – and those are the commissioner’s words – then how can it have an equivalent effect? but my issue is the recent fvo report on beef imports from brazil. my problem is that both the commission and the fvo consistently play down the impact of their findings and they minimise any adverse information. yes, additional requirements were authorised; but as my colleague mrs mcguinness said, that was only after sustained pressure from the committee on agriculture and the irish farmers’ organisation. i was a maths teacher for most of my life, and if i gave my students 12 problems to solve – like the 12 visits that the commissioner had to establishments in brazil – and they only solved six of them correctly, i would not stamp ‘satisfactory’ on their exam paper. if three had minor and three had major problems, i would not consider that a good outcome, particularly if i had spent years working with them to improve their grades. eu farmers want fair trade as well as free trade, and eu consumers deserve certainty. the eu commission and the fvo have a responsibility to ensure both. i certainly would not give them an ‘a’ grade for their work.
mr president, i thank the court of auditors in particular for putting forward this morning, in a very clear way, the contents of a massive report giving us the good and the bad – and thankfully not the ugly because, to some extent, we have cleared up the worst aspects of our accounting practices. i want to concentrate in particular on agriculture, which because it has been given a relatively clean bill of health has virtually been dismissed in this debate. i do so because i want to caution that we may be going back to the future. it is worth remembering this morning that agriculture has improved because we have decoupled, to a large extent, payments from production. we are giving the payments directly to active farmers, active producers, and therefore the possibility of errors has much been reduced. however, through the vehicle of modulation we are now taking that money and using it in the area of rural development, about which serious concerns have been expressed. hence my comments about our possibly going back to the future. i also worry about how we can account for issues like water management, climate change and biodiversity. think of the complexity of the rules that will surround all these things – and rightly so – if public money is being spent in that direction, and the difficulties and cost of complying with those particular rules. we are looking at a review of the european union’s budget thanks to the former british prime minister, tony blair, whose government does not have a particularly clean record when it comes to its own sets of accounts. again, under that review we will be looking at spending money in areas which the court of auditors clearly has concerns about, particularly in the field of research and innovation. let us therefore be very careful that the good work we have done will not be unpicked by what we are about to do.
madam president, a simple question. it has been stated that many of the breaches in compliance are due to a lack of understanding of the procedures and regulations. do you accept that this is the case? and, if so, what percentage of breaches would be due to this unfortunate situation, not to deliberate breaching of the rules?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i welcome the action of the committee on legal affairs in putting this timely question to the commission. the book digitalisation project impacts on several european and member state policy areas, such as copyright, competition, library digitalisation and culture, and as such requires both debate and measured consideration. the digitalisation of books has many clear benefits in both cultural and economic terms. it will make literature and learning more accessible to the digital generation. it will contribute to the dissemination of knowledge and culture. it will give students, academics and universities increased access to information and research. for europe to be at the forefront of a successful knowledge-based economy, we must move forward with new technologies and stay ahead in the knowledge race. my own member state, ireland, was known as the island of saints and scholars, with a great tradition for producing literature; and the encouragement and promotion of reading and literature is always welcome. unfortunately i have to say that most of the saints are gone. however, the digitalisation project must not proceed at the expense of the creative process behind literature and the livelihood of the many stakeholders must not be negatively impacted upon. it is important to stress that digitalisation must only be accepted when the rights of the stakeholders, including authors, publishers, illustrators, graphic designers and literary translators, are represented and protected. given the potential threat of digitalisation to the print book market, it is essential to ensure that the rights of holders are fairly remunerated, and this is an issue that i raised directly with the commission last october. in their response i note that the commission has already launched a public consultation and has held hearings to exchange views with stakeholders. i welcome these positive steps and, if the european union copyright legislation is to be adapted, there must be an increased engagement with stakeholders so that the change reflects their interests, while at the same time facilitating a knowledge-based economy.
madam president, google is an american company we all know well, providing online services which many of us use on a daily basis. as their european headquarters is located in ireland, i know they are an excellent employer and real leader in cutting-edge internet technology. the digitisation of books, such as the google books project, has the potential to unlock huge volumes of the world’s collective knowledge and cultural heritage. we should support efforts to make books searchable, readable and downloadable. we all agree that a digital library of the scope google is proposing will mean real benefits. this is especially true for our libraries in europe, which store books dating as far back as the 17th century. few people are able to see those books, but putting them online will allow the world to study and enjoy their contents. however, the question we must, as europeans, ask is whether that vast array of knowledge and culture should be monopolised by one private american company. i have no doubt google wish to uphold their famous motto ‘do no evil’. however, what guarantee would we have that they would not use monopoly power to price these books above the range of ordinary citizens? public access to such resources is of paramount importance. in fact, we must do all we can to support our own digital library. europeana makes available online nearly five million items. its mission is to offer the widest possible public access to cultural collections from across europe. i regret that only france has contributed seriously so far and that others, including ireland, have contributed little. given that my own country has such a rich and impressive literary history, i call on the irish government to participate more fully in the europeana project. we must cherish public access to our shared european culture and heritage. the clear message to all european cultural institutions must be to digitise and to digitise now.
madam president, i have a little story to tell to illustrate my point. probably the first copyright case in the history of the world took place in ireland 1 500 years ago, when a monk called finian invited another monk called columcille to his monastery. finian was writing a manuscript at the time. columcille discovered it and got up each night to copy it. finian was not pleased and he asked for it back. he did not get it back so he appealed to the high king. the high king heard the case and made a judgment, which was – i will say it in irish first – do gach bó a lao, do gach leabhar a chóip, or ‘to every cow her calf, to every book its copy’. that is as relevant today as it was 1 500 years ago, because copyright and intellectual rights have to be guaranteed. so i say, ‘to every cow her calf, to every book its copy’ and to every author and artist their copyright and intellectual rights.
mr president, i come from a country which has introduced a ban on smoking in the workplace. indeed, i was a member of the irish parliament at the time and i fully supported the ban. however, we are in a slightly different position here in the european parliament, where we have to consider the principle of subsidiarity. while indeed there may be an issue with regard to the protection of workers’ health – we have legislation in this area already, such as on exposure to electro-magnetic radiation – we cannot ask, as we did in paragraph 7, that member states, where smoking bans already exist, respect the principle of equality between different types of establishment in the hospitality sector. yesterday we voted on the role of national parliaments and their powers on proposed eu legislation in the area of subsidiarity under the new lisbon treaty, so we have to be very careful that we are coherent in the way we vote. finally, i was talking to my colleague at the very beginning and missed the vote on the european year of volunteering. i want to state that i fully support the parliament proposal for that year, having led the campaign to ensure that 2011 was designated during the last parliamentary term.
in writing. − it is with great pleasure that i have voted in favour of naming 2011 as the european year of volunteering. it is a great boon to the numerous voluntary organisations in all of our member states of the eu. i would like to point out that sporting organisations play a central role in volunteering and, despite this not being stipulated explicitly in the legislative text, nevertheless needs to be acknowledged. indeed, the largest voluntary association in ireland is the gaelic athletic association. the efforts of all involved in this great institution need to be duly recognised and lauded.
in writing. − given that over 40 million people die of hunger and poverty each year, including one child every six seconds, and that the global food crisis is one of the major threats to peace and security in the world, i have voted to support this timely resolution. the resolution calls for the commission to conduct a full impact assessment of the eu's policies and programmes in the areas of agriculture, development and trade in order to guarantee a coherent, sustainable policy approach to global food security. as the resolution stated everyone has the right to safe and nutritious food, the european union must act to ensure these policies can deliver sustainable food security.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission maintains that in recent years there has been a substantial improvement in the general political situation in laos, and agrees with parliament that the ratification by laos of the international covenant on civil and political rights (iccpr) is a welcome step towards respect for the freedoms of faith, association, speech and the press. the commission also welcomes the ratification of the convention on disability rights and the un convention against corruption. in april, the laos government approved a decree allowing the formation and registration of national civil society organisations. this marks a significant step towards achieving freedom of association and allowing civil society a role in the development of the country. however, we share the concerns of parliament regarding political prisoners. as to the three individuals mentioned by parliament, the authorities repeated in october 2009 their earlier statement to our delegation in vientiane, namely that mr keochay had already been released in 2002. two of the other three, mr seng-aloun phengphanh and mr tongpaseuth keuakaoun were reported to be in good health. the authorities claim to have no knowledge of mr bouvanh chanmanivong. the commission has consulted resident diplomats and others about the alleged arrests of several hundreds of demonstrators in early december 2009. however, we have not been able to confirm the information referred to. the commission shares the opinion of parliament that the detention of 158 people held in nongkhai requires urgent solution. the commission calls upon the laos and thai governments to allow the prisoners to resettle in third countries which have offered asylum. regarding other lao hmong in camps in thailand, a proper screening should be undertaken in order to determine the status of the offences. let me now turn to vietnam. the commission shares the concerns of parliament about recent signs of a more hard-line attitude of the government of vietnam on human rights. the recent arrests and trials of peaceful bloggers and human rights defenders, as well as tensions with religious groups such as the peaceful buddhist community and the batna monastery, have caused legitimate concern in europe. we urge vietnam, as party to the international covenant on civil and political rights, to honour its international human rights commitments and to release all those prisoners, in particular human rights lawyer le cong dinh, democracy advocate and writer tran khai thanh thuy and catholic priest father nguyen van ly, who are currently in detention for having peacefully expressed their views. we also agree that a more independent media would have a useful role to play to channel social discontent peacefully in times of economic stress. that is why we encourage vietnam to adopt a press law that will be in line with article 19 of the iccpr on freedom of expression. nevertheless we are confident about our mature human rights dialogue and cooperation with vietnam. we believe in constructive engagement. however, in order for such engagement to remain a sustainable option, dialogue and cooperation need to show tangible results. there will be no better demonstration that dialogue is the best option than vietnam’s own performance.
author. − mr president, i support calls for the end of the death penalty in china, more especially when the death penalty is used to terrorise minority ethnic groups and nations within the chinese state. the european union, the united states and other world powers, however, in their criticism of human rights violations in china, are very soft. in the case of violation of workers’ rights, those criticisms are virtually non-existent. this is because they wish to build business links with chinese business and the bureaucracy that controls the state so that they may profit from the appalling exploitation of workers in china. china is a gigantic sweatshop of exploitation of workers. for example, tens of millions of migrant workers lead lives of shameful misery, with their children suffering the consequences of the horrific conditions under which they live. the eu-based and the us-based multinationals participate in this exploitation to facilitate their super-profits. the chinese regime is increasing its repression, and that repression has increased since the chinese stalinists decided to go for the capitalist market as a means of developing the economy. there is massive repression of journalists and campaigners for justice, for communities and for workers. recently a socialist colleague of my own was banned from china. laurence coates, a socialist who writes under the name of vincent kolo, who is the editor of ‘chinaworker.info’, was detained at the border and banned from china. ‘chinaworker.info’ campaigns for workers’ rights and free trade unions. we should stand with workers in china. independent and democratically-run trade unions and the right to strike should be campaigned for, as well as the release of all political prisoners and detained labour activists. we should call for freedom of expression and assembly and international solidarity with workers in china to fight this horrific bureaucratic regime, many of whose members aspire to be oligarchs, obviously, as they did previously with the same system in russia.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for the outline of the situation. however, i want to concentrate on just one area where we can act, and that is the low-level presence of unauthorised gmos in feed imports and its impact on the eu feed industry, because this is an over-arching issue. i sent a letter to president barroso – signed by a number of meps – and he replied that the commission have moved quickly to authorise three modified gm products, and a fourth on the way. however, we are still playing catch-up. the problem next year will be brazil: they have streamlined their approval system down to 22 months, and the problem will not go away. we are all aware that the agri-sector is beset by low margins, and the least, i think, that eu farmers can expect is that the cost of inputs should not be increased by the failure of the eu to act sufficiently quickly to establish authorisations. it is one thing to have poor output prices, but it is a double penalty when inputs are not available at world market prices. in ireland, since may of this year, the extra cost of delayed authorisations has been eur 23 million. finally, the issue of low-level presence will always be with us, and, while speedy functioning of the authorisation system will improve the situation, we still need a technical solution.
mr president, i welcome this debate. we cannot do much about many of the problems which have been mentioned, but others we can do an awful lot about. colleagues have mentioned particularly the problem of over-regulation; that is something that many farmers mention throughout the european union. people also mentioned gm foods, and i totally agree with them on that: there is need for action in that area. however, one area which i think is also important to us is the area of live exports. there is a danger that we are going to put so many regulations in place that it will be cost-prohibitive, particularly for farmers and people exporting cattle from an island nation like ireland. (sometimes i think it would be interesting to compare, for instance, the travel schedule of meps coming here to parliament today with the travel schedule of animals being exported overseas, and i think sometimes the stress levels on meps might be greater.) in that regard we would need to be very careful and not over-regulate and price ourselves out of the market.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his support for the commission's proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to deal with redundancies in the automotive sector in sweden, austria and the construction sector in the netherlands. mr rapporteur, your support is complemented by a number of comments, in particular two budgetary points, which i had the opportunity to mention in the previous debate and to which i would like to return today. the first budgetary point you raise concerns the sources of funding. you remind us that the european social fund should not be the only source of funding. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a specific instrument from a budgetary point of view, which does not have its own resources. to release it, it is necessary to transfer appropriations, which means, firstly, identifying budget lines offering suitable possibilities and, secondly, proposing to the budgetary authority the release of the amounts thus determined through an amending budget. this is an activity that is carried out as needed on a case-by-case basis. it is true that the european social fund has been the main source of funding up to now. this cannot be explained by the similar nature of the fund alone. the fact that the fund has a significant amount of resources at its disposal contributes greatly to this. in 2009, the european social fund has almost €11 billion in payment appropriations. of this total, 6 billion had been used by the end of november. the total amount of payments to the european globalisation adjustment fund is eur 53 million in 2009, i.e. 0,5% of the allocated budget of the european social fund. until now, the method we have chosen, which in some respects was logical and easier than others, has not hindered or jeopardised the achievement of the objectives of the european social fund. however, i agree that the sources of payments need to be diversified and i can assure you that the commission is working on this. so i hope that next time we can present a few possible scenarios. the second point you mention is not just budgetary but rather decisive, since you ask the commission to present its proposals for the next mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in separate documents. the commission is aware of the advantages of this case-by-case approach, which would, for example, completely eliminate the risk of collusion or hostage-taking. it is true that the original method used was a quite natural one, which facilitated the administrative handling of problems to a certain extent, but i think that the factual and political background speaks very strongly in favour of a case-by-case approach and the commission will continue to proceed in this way in future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the european globalisation adjustment fund is a tangible expression of solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs due to major structural changes in world trade patterns. as members of this parliament, it can give us some satisfaction that we can make a contribution to alleviating some of the more immediate effects of redundancy for these workers, indeed giving them some hope for the future. however, our role should not just be to approve this fund. we have a responsibility to do our best to ensure, first of all, that all criteria are met, but also to do what is in our power to ensure that the globalisation fund ensures added value. one of the relevant issues raised by the committee on employment is that the measures proposed by member states complement other actions cofinanced by the structural funds, and really we need more than a simple confirmation that this is the case. it needs to be demonstrated that this is the case, because this will help to ensure the added value i spoke of. also, the added value will come from the fact that the egf will not replace actions that are the responsibility of companies, but are a valuable addition to measures taken at national level. while we are evaluating the added value of the fund within the process of the 2007-2013 multiannual framework budget review, this should, in my opinion, be an ongoing process, and we need to be vigilant in the area. another matter which is of some concern to me is the implementation of equality between men and women and non-discrimination within the framework of the fund. i have taken a quick look at the gender breakdown of the three programmes targeted for assistance and they run 91%, 72% and 79% male. i have looked at some of the other programmes that we have funded before this, and there seems to be an indication that there is a much greater percentage of the funding going towards male workers that have been made redundant. this may be a statistical aberration or it may be a situation where, for one reason or another, a greater number of the applications are for male workers. finally, we need to carefully evaluate all applications because it is crucial that assistance is made available as quickly and efficiently as possible.
madam president, having sat here a few weeks ago when parliament voted in favour of globalisation funding for my own constituents in limerick, who were made redundant due to the dell relocating to poland – and also in the springtime the waterford crystal workers will be looking for a similar assistance – obviously i support what has been proposed here tonight for sweden, austria and the netherlands. a number of anomalies have been mentioned and i am going to repeat them very briefly. firstly, i think the start date needs to be looked at. secondly, the time span needs to reflect the length of the course, not just the particular two years, as it is at the moment. thirdly, concerning administration, it is very important that it is not gobbled up, particularly by government agencies. fourthly – and more importantly – as much help as possible should be given to entrepreneurs. thirty-five per cent of start-up companies in the eu have been started by people who have been unemployed. if they are helped, they will deliver. necessity is the mother of invention, and i think it is very important that we give them every assistance we can.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by emphasising the importance of this microfinance initiative. the current crisis is leading to a substantial increase in unemployment in all member states and, unfortunately, its effects are once again felt most strongly by the most vulnerable in our society. this microfinance facility is specifically aimed at helping these groups of citizens to find an alternative to employment and become micro-entrepreneurs themselves. i would like to congratulate the employment committee on the excellent work it has done in this area and in particular to acknowledge the contribution of mrs göncz to this initiative. i am aware of the efforts made in the negotiations between parliament and the council to reach an agreement at first reading. the fact that both institutions support this microfinance instrument has enabled considerable progress to be made in terms of the substance of the proposal. this progress is largely reflected in the amendments proposed today. the most difficult issue, of course, is the budget. although both institutions are likely to agree on a total budget of eur 100 million for the instrument, the main obstacle remains the identification of the source of this funding. as you know, the microfinance proposal is part of a package that includes a proposal to transfer 100 million euros from the progress programme. you've decided not to vote on this second bill this week. the transfer of funds from progress is supported by the council and for many member states it is a key element of the whole package. without an agreement on the sources of funding in this area, we cannot therefore achieve our objective of rapidly establishing a new instrument. today, however, we are discussing the text of the decision establishing the instrument. in conclusion, i would like to express once again my appreciation to the rapporteur for the work she has done in presenting the report and the amendments which will allow both legislatures to focus on the main problem that remains to be solved, namely funding.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i am pleased to have the opportunity to say a few words on the proposed microfinance facility. earlier we spoke about the european globalisation adjustment fund and how it can assist redundant workers in certain sectors. the microfinance is another piece in the jigsaw where the eu, in this case, is trying to ensure access to microcredit for those who would not be able to access that credit from what we might define as the normal or usual financial institutions. this would enable them to set up their own business and promote entrepreneurship. in this context, i am pleased to see that credit unions, cooperative banks and other mutual financial institutions can operate the fund, because they are often closer to those who may wish to access this particular facility. indeed, i do not know about elsewhere, but in ireland the only financial institution left standing that did not require taxpayers’ money to sustain it was the credit union movement, which is a not-for-profit institution run by its members. when we speak of social inclusion as part of eu social policy, we need to ensure that, by our actions, social inclusion is integral to the decisions we take, and this programme has social inclusion written all over it. in this context, i want to express my extreme disappointment that after three trialogues we were unable to reach agreement on the source of funding for this facility. in my opinion, the swedish presidency did not seem to have the facility to have any meaningful negotiations on the matter. i do not know about you but, as i said, i was very disappointed that a figure of at most eur 40 million over three years for 27 member states was all that divided us. obviously, many finance ministers did not support real negotiation. i could not help but think that many of those same ministers allocated billions to support banks, but were unable to support other financial institutions that would provide microcredit to those who have lost their jobs and who would have difficulty in accessing credit from the same banks that have been saved.
madam president, i very much welcome this initiative. unemployment is the biggest social problem we face right now, and anything we can do to mitigate its impact is important for the well-being of our societies. however, a proposal for eur 100 million over a three-year period lacks ambition, in my view, given the growth in unemployment. i am likewise surprised that the money proposed is not new money, and that we will in effect be robbing peter to pay paul, as has already been said, at a time when all the money we can find should be used in the progress programme, on existing schemes. we must do all we can to reach agreement quickly with the spanish presidency so that the programme can get under way at the earliest possible date. it is equally incumbent on the council to get its act together and to meet parliament with regard to our concerns. this is no time for the council to haggle over what is a tiny amount of money. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
madam president, i have no problem at all in seeking to answer that usual nonsense from the far right of this parliament. without the euro, the irish economy would be in hell at the moment. as i was saying, this is no time for the council to haggle over what is a tiny amount of money given the scale of the jobs crisis, the size of the overall budget and certainly in the context of the support that member states, and indeed the european central bank, have given to the banking sector – a banking sector, incidentally, which will not lend to the people that we are seeking to facilitate. i have every confidence that if there is goodwill on the part of the council we can reach agreement based on the pragmatic approach of our rapporteur. i sincerely hope they will do so quickly.
madam president, three and a half million people lost jobs in the european union in the past year. eur 100 million is not going to turn that situation around. in fact when you consider that one hundred million people are employed by smes, it only comes to one euro per employee. nevertheless, it is a start, and it is to be welcomed because, as commissioner špidla pointed out, financing is the biggest issue at hand. to illustrate that: i became aware at the weekend of a situation where a company, which had a significant order delayed for three months, went to its bank – the bank it had been dealing with for 15 years – for bridging finance. it was refused. the company director was told that if he took out a mortgage on his own dwelling house, then they would allow him. he did this, and a week later he got a letter withdrawing the overdraft facility on the grounds that they were now in a high-risk situation. the result was that the company closed down and 10 more people were made redundant. that brings me to a point which my colleague marian harkin mentioned, that, as far as possible, this funding should go to non-commercial banks like credit unions which, in my country anyway, are in every town and do tremendous work, whereas all the anecdotal evidence would suggest that the commercial banks, even with the finance they were getting from the european investment bank, are not giving it out but rather keeping it to shore up their own financial situation. for those two reasons i think we should be very careful of not so much where the money comes from, but where it goes to. if it goes to the right people then it would be the best money we will spend perhaps for a long time here at european level. finally, i would like to respond to the rather ill-advised comments by the earl when he spoke about the begging hand. this is not about a begging hand. this is about helping those to help others to create employment and to stay in employment. we are very proud and glad that we joined the euro, and we will be staying.
în scris. – i welcome the fact that the new directive 2009/48ec on toy safety will come into force in 2011, although it is regrettable that the directive will not be in force for the christmas 2010 period next year, when the majority of toys made or imported into the eu, are sold. i hope that member states will see fit to transpose all elements of this important directive before the final deadline for implementation ,in order to give parents, as consumers, greater peace of mind.
a uachtaráin, tacaím go hiomlán le cinneadh pharlaimint na heorpa maoiniú do phlean téarnaimh eacnamaíochta eorpach a chur in ord tosaíochta. tá gá le plean téarnaimh dá leithéid seo le cur le héileamh eacnamaíochta agus chun an cumas iomaíochais a athbhunú sa réigiúin. de thoradh na géarchéime geilleagraí tá leibhéil dífhostaíochta ag méadú san eoraip, rud atá ag cur isteach go mór ar gheilleagar na heorpa. faraor, is daoine óga atá ag lorg poist den chéad uair ina saol is mó atá thíos leis seo. tá sé bunriachtanach go gcuirfear bearta i bhfeidhm le cosaint a thabhairt dóibh siúd is mó atá faoi mhíbhuntáiste. caithfimid pleananna athoiliúna a bhunú ionas gur féidir leo siúd a chailleann a bpost inniu ceann eile a fháil go luath amach anseo. is é an aidhm atá ag an bplean ná gníomhú i gcomhar le ciste sóisialta na heorpa agus leis an gciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú. ó d'aontaigh éirinn le comhphobal eacnamaíochta na eorpa sa bhliain naoi déag seachtó a trí tá ról lárnach glactha ag an aontas eorpach arís is arís eile – nuair a bhíonn gá ann – trí mheán chiste sóisialta na heorpa, chun dul i ngleic le fadhb na dífhostaíochta sa tír. tá an ról dearfach seo glactha arís ag an aontas in éirinn faoi láthair agus tá an plean téarnaimh ríthábhachtach ina leith seo.
mr president, in the last parliament much attention was paid to the members’ and assistants’ statutes, and i think that was quite appropriate. now, at the beginning of this parliament and new commission, it is time we turned our attention to other members of staff of the three institutions and examined the role of those staff. we are very privileged to have very professional and committed people working for parliament, the council and the commission, but the reality of it is that within this parliament we do not have a grasp of exactly what a lot of these staff do. they have done what they have done for years. when there are 27 member states represented in this parliament, 27 commissioners coming together from those member states into the commission, and council ministers going back to their parliaments and coming here, it is very easy for the staff elected to serve us to actually take over the agenda. what i am asking from the very beginning of this parliament is that the incoming commission – i do not know, incidentally, what proportion of the budget is on staffing, but i know it is substantial – require a study on what it is that the staff of the three institutions do, to ensure that they are being efficient and effective and, above all, that they are transparent and accountable in what they do. i think that this would be an important public service. there is a sort of growing belief that there is a faceless bureaucracy. i do not share that view, and i do not mean that as backhanded compliment as we have some very good staff, but that is not the measure of efficiency and effectiveness. we have to know what the staff are doing and, if we are serious about having a lisbon agenda with an efficient and effective economy, then we have to be sure that the staff who work for our three institutions are being applied effectively, efficiently and accountably. i believe that in each of the institutions there should be a deputy secretary-general who reports to those institutions on the efficiency and effectiveness of staff from time to time. i would ask the commission to have this examined independently and fairly in the early stages of the new commission.
mr president, there are two commitments which i specifically want to welcome in the council statement and which have the potential to create a new dynamic: support for the palestinian authority’s two-year programme for ending the israeli occupation and establishing the palestinian state, and the union’s readiness, when appropriate, to recognise a palestinian state. last week i led an official european parliament delegation to the occupied palestinian territories where, once again, i saw with my own eyes the apartheid system being implemented by israel against palestinians, along with the dispossession and destruction of their homes, their lands, their water and their places of worship. within hours of the publication of the council statement, the permission my delegation had for going to gaza was rescinded. that is not the act of a friendly state. it is certainly an interference in the democratic right of this parliament to have decent and democratic relations with our opposite numbers, elected by the palestinian people. we found widespread despondency and hopelessness amongst the people we met and in the areas we visited in hebron, east jerusalem and ramallah. where there is hopelessness, there will be violence. we can make progress now or we can let the situation slide into more bitter violence, which will drive moderate palestinian politicians out of leadership. that is the choice we have to make. i would appeal to both the council and to baroness ashton, whom i wish well, to reinvigorate the union’s engagement with this process – not just looking towards the quartet to reinvigorate its engagement with the process – and to put in place a timetable coinciding with the palestinian authority’s two-year timetable for the implementation of the principles we outlined, so bravely in my view, last week. we must vigorously defend human rights. we must act. we must use access to our markets to incentivise israel. i am not talking about sanctions. i am talking about ensuring that access to our market is used as an incentive to ensure that israel acts in relation to its international responsibilities. we must also, finally, persuade the united states to urgently re-engage on the same basis we outlined last week.
mr president, first i want to say that this is a topic that is very difficult to get a definitive answer on what is right and what is wrong. we all know, ever since 9/11, that we are living in a very dangerous world where there are terrorists at large who have all day, every day, to spend planning their deadly missions, and they have the economic resources, some of it state-sponsored, to carry out their missions. for that reason, it is difficult for those who are trying to combat terrorism to prove how effective they are, but i think we could safely say that, if the terrorists had their way, this place would have been blown up long ago. while it is important that parliament would have oversight on restrictions on individuals’ rights etc., at the same time we have to put our faith in those who are in charge of security. i think the evidence is there that they have done a good job. sometimes we may not be able to know all the details of individuals involved, but at the same time the overall principle is a good one.
mr president, yesterday in ireland a conference addressed the topic of aid and eastern europe. one of the countries we spoke about was georgia, and it was really refreshing to hear how much progress had been made for a particular group of individuals with no voice – children with disabilities, both intellectual and physical, and young adults – but also deeply depressing to learn that those involved believe that they are now set back by 10 years because of the conflict. i would just ask, because i was involved yesterday, that you bear in mind the most vulnerable when we are doing trade agreements and having conversations. this was a very important debate here, but the horrific humanitarian situation has been spoken about by other colleagues, and there is a group of people who is always forgotten; i just wanted their voice to be heard here today.
mr president, politics is merely a job when it is self-serving. it becomes a vocation when it helps others – when the goliaths come to the aid of the davids. in this instance, the european union is the goliath coming to the aid of georgia, the david, and i welcome that. it has, however, another goliath alongside it in the form of russia, with a different agenda for georgia. it is important that the european union flex its muscles in resisting that unwarranted intrusion. i was in bonn last week at the epp congress, and there the president of georgia spoke. he outlined the efforts the country was making in dealing with corruption, its agenda for reform to ensure economic growth, and also its desire to have a free trade agreement. my question is: when does the commission see that free trade agreement being brought into being, when the conditions for it are met?
mr president, i expected commissioner almunia and indeed mr verhofstadt to perhaps offer us an explanation, and an analysis, for the reasons behind the disaster which has befallen most countries in central and eastern europe in the economic arena. twenty years ago we had an heroic movement of working people in those countries which brought down the stalinist monolith. unfortunately, instead of replacing that monolith by going on to genuine democratic socialism, it was the restoration of capitalism which followed. but that was what was prescribed by the entire political european capitalist establishment: the eu, the big business media all promised that capitalism would herald a bright new era for the peoples of central and eastern europe. the market was to be god; competition was to be king. so we have the imposition of the neoliberal agenda so beloved of the european commissioner: the wholesale privatisation of public property – the robbery of public property, in fact – and putting the economies of these countries at the mercy of the sharks on the international financial markets. we even set up a special bank to oversee this process, and it has been an unmitigated disaster. the baltic states are in freefall: latvia 18% down in the third quarter, unemployment 20%. what do the eu commission and mr verhofstadt offer? the prescription of the international monetary fund and of the western european banks. slash and burn the living standards of working people; slash and burn public services. therefore we have in latvia the threat that half the hospitals will be closed by the end of this year. the policies of the eu establishment mean a nightmare for the ordinary people of these countries – the threat of barbaric conditions for the ordinary people. so i would commend the people of central and eastern europe to reject this fatal prescription of the european union establishment, nationalise their banks, put them under democratic control so that they invest for people and for jobs, nationalise or renationalise the major sectors of the economy, but this time under the control of working people so that they can plan their economy for people and not have themselves at the mercy of the sharks, of corporate europe and financial europe, which has brought about this dreadful disaster for the peoples of this region. you may laugh, commissioner, but i await your response.
mr president, that the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) is deplorable and that the effect of the conflict upon the people there is tragic goes without saying. however, there are a number of important points that must be reiterated here and in our joint motion for a resolution. we must remember that the violence in the drc, like so many conflicts of its type, is often driven by greed but also stems from and is fuelled by poverty. fighting over territory, ethnicity, resources or politics are but branches of the same rotten tree of want. increase a man’s prosperity and give him purpose and you will reduce his desire to kill or be killed. that is our development challenge as a parliament. secondly, we must ensure that any military presence in a foreign country is designed and implemented to reduce suffering and violence, not exacerbate it. we must stand as pillars against impunity rather than agents of it. if there is evidence that western missions are not living up to this standard, then their presence and practices must be urgently reassessed. finally, history has shown us that, in internecine conflicts such as in the drc, a political solution is the only hope for peace. dialogue and engagement are the only roads toward such a solution. with the post-lisbon creation of our external action service, the european union must take its place on the international stage as a more proactive facilitator of dialogue and a sponsor of peace.
mr president, i think it is unfortunate that in this christmas season we have spent the last two days discussing violence around the world, be it in chechnya or in afghanistan and now in the congo. but, nevertheless, that is the reality. at the same time, taking the message of the festive season of peace and goodwill, we must, as my colleague mr mitchell put it so well, become sponsors of peace. and this is a great opportunity for the high representative, lady ashton, to use the power and support of the european union in a way that could not have been done before, to bring these countries to order and to try and alleviate the terrible suffering in these places. the long-term solution, though, will come not from economic improvement but from education, and we have to try and ensure free access to proper education in these countries, because that is really the way to peace in the long term.
mr president, in 1960 the swedish secretary-general of the united nations, dag hammarskjöld, asked the irish troops to go as peacemakers into what was then the belgian congo, which became the congo. they did a tremendous job. i am extremely worried about the role of the united nations troops in the congo at present: the moroccans, the pakistanis and the indians. we are talking about rape, violence, trading and so on, but the united nations troops there are not covering themselves in glory and are actually doing a disservice. i agree completely with mr mitchell, that the european union needs to take a firmer hand. we are a european union, totally united. we did excellent work in chad. we need our own peacekeepers in there and we cannot rely on the united nations. the situation is that we have a beautiful people, victims of european colonisation, victims of tribal conflict, victims of international blindness, and we cannot be blind any longer. we simply have to go in and save those people.
president-in-office of the council. − mr posselt, you may be assured that we will continue to survey the situation very closely, and that is also part of the commission’s constant work. they will do that, of course. we are aware of the improvements, and the situation is fragile. but there are improvements, and these institutional arrangements that i refer to, that have been done, are a good step in the right direction. we can only hope that, with our support as well as the support from osce, this development will continue in that direction.
president-in-office of the council. − i was not exactly sure about the question. when it comes to kosovo, there is further work, independent of the fact that not all member states have recognised kosovo. there is works being conducted by the commission in order to see how we can facilitate the situation for kosovo, and that will take some time. there are still difficulties there. they are also subject to visa facilitation in the future but not all the conditions have been met yet.
acting president of the council. - thank you for asking. the current crisis is affecting millions of people very badly. therefore, one of the eu's key challenges is to deal with the consequences of the economic crisis. in view of the ageing of the population, eu countries must reduce current unemployment and avoid making it permanent. the member states are primarily responsible for employment policy. however, the employment council has been adopting guidelines for several years. we have stressed that because the labour market situation is so different, the measures must also differ from one country to another. we have an annual joint report on employment, in which the council and the commission monitor the situation in the various member states. during the current crisis, the european council has paid particular attention to unemployment. in december 2008, a european economic recovery plan was agreed, providing a coherent framework for the actions to be taken. as part of this plan, the council and the european parliament adopted in june 2009 a regulation amending the globalisation adjustment fund. this amendment allows the use of the fund to combat the crisis . several measures may be used depending on national circumstances: temporary adjustment of working hours, reduction of social security contributions, reduction of the administrative burden on enterprises, improvement of procedures of the labour market authorities, targeting of support measures on unemployed young people and facilitation of mobility. these were highlighted in the presidency report following the informal employment summit. in the conclusions of the june summit, the council sets out a series of measures that could help member states, and social partners where necessary, to cope with the effects of the global crisis by applying the principles of flexicurity. this may include providing companies with alternatives to redundancy, the possibility of flexible working arrangements and temporary adjustment of working hours, better conditions for entrepreneurship through a flexible and secure labour market, benefit systems that provide work incentives, appropriate levels of social security contributions, extended and improved activation measures, income support and free movement. at the november debate, ministers were generally agreed that an active employment policy with short-term measures must be maintained. this applies to measures such as short-term employment, improved employability, training aimed at integrating people into the labour market. at the same council meeting, the ministers agreed that employment is a factor in avoiding exclusion. the link between gender equality, economic growth and employment is very important, and therefore member states were called upon to expand childcare and reduce pay and other gender gaps. the focus must be on those most affected by the crisis: the elderly, young people, the disabled and the unemployed. creating more and equal opportunities for young people in education and in the labour market is one of the overarching objectives of the renewed framework for european cooperation in the youth field for the period 2010-2018 adopted by the council on 27 november 2009.
thank you for your answer. i must say i am delighted to see you, minister, and hopefully will be seeing more of you next year; you will be well used to answering our questions. two points which i feel are important but which you did not raise in your answer were: first of all, the encouraging of entrepreneurship: and, secondly, increased spending in r&d. but the real question which i want to ask you related to the fact that up to now we have relied on the open method of coordination, which was really quite a weak instrument and did not work well in trying to achieve the objectives of the lisbon agenda. have you any suggestions at all for strengthening that mechanism?
i would like to thank you, mrs malmström, for your concise, precise and logical response, not just to my question but to all questions since i came here to this parliament last june. you have been a star performer. i am also proud to say that i am part of a european union that is leading the climate change debate and influencing others to do the same. i suppose the best example of that is the arrival today in copenhagen of the president of the united states and the prime minister of china, something unthinkable a few years ago. however, in the absence of a binding agreement, what would our modus operandi be going forward?
i join with mr kelly in expressing my appreciation for the minister’s replies in the house and for the conduct of the swedish presidency in general, which has been exemplary. minister, we have noted in recent days that the president of the united states has been in discussions with certain leaders in the developing world. has the european union joined in those discussions in trying to bridge the gap with the united states and others to try to bring the remaining issues to a resolution? can the minister assure the house that, if there is to be funding for this, for the developing world, that it will be new money, that it will not be money that comes out of existing commitments to the developing world in terms of the hunger and development agenda?
could i just acknowledge, since we are talking about the rights of disabled people, that our colleague, mr kósa, has just been elected president of the disability intergroup of the european parliament. we wish him well in that. specifically regarding the economic crisis, on which we had a debate yesterday and you were nodding in agreement: we have huge concerns about institutional care of children and young adults, and i worry that the economic crisis – and perhaps you share this – will slow the process of de-institutionalisation, and that this is an issue we need to be very careful of, both within and outside the eu.
deputising for the author. – i would like to thank the president-in-office on my own behalf and on behalf of mr crowley for her very comprehensive response and to say that i am very pleased with the approach of both the council and the commission. i hope that you will continue to monitor developments in a pragmatic way.
i want to thank the president-in-office for her response. as chair of the delegation for relations with switzerland, iceland and norway and to the european economic area (eea) joint parliamentary committee, i fully understand that, of course, every application has to be dealt with on its own merits and progress is being made. i think an indication of that is that iceland responded to the many questions within a reasonably short time and, of course, it was helpful that it is a member of the eea. that is an indication of the icelandic government’s commitment. i believe it would be another major step in the further expansion of europe if iceland were to become a member of the european union. however, you mentioned the old democracy as a matter for the icelandic people to take this decision, but i look forward to further progress at the next council meeting and, hopefully, a major step will be taken there and that there would be an announcement by the council.
i think everyone in this house supports the efforts. if you stand, as i have, on a landfill and inhale, it is pretty awful, and i think the public who dump should perhaps take a visit. could you, if you have any, give reasons that you could elaborate on as to why only nine member states are at this stage? we know we need to do this; i agree we need to do biogas. everybody agrees with the principles, but why are we failing to achieve the objectives?
mr president, firstly my thanks to mr samecki for his good work. i think we all agree with the principle we are discussing here this morning, but it should apply not only across the european union but worldwide as well. this is something we discussed recently at the canadian delegation, which is a step in the right direction. however, if we want that utopian situation, we must ensure that professional qualifications are of an equal standard across the european union and, ideally, worldwide. there is anecdotal evidence to suggest that, in some countries at least, when students have not reached the educational standard to qualify for a course, they can go to another country and pay to do it there. so there is a need for independent verifiable evidence that the standards are equal and, if they are equal, then there is no excuse for not transposing this principle across the european union and, hopefully, in due course worldwide, to attain what we desire – the free movement of labour for professionals.
mr president, let us get straight to the point here. the failure of member states to get their act together in terms of the recognition of qualifications is costing us jobs. the failure of member states to actually take this seriously enough is a serious issue. our level of cross-border trade for what is supposed to be a single market is nowhere near what it should be. we are in the process of rebuilding the european economy, and part of this move must involve ways to enhance cross-border trade and make labour more mobile than it is now. we must move to a new area of entrepreneurial innovation, where in europe we are working together to make the world’s most cutting-edge products. given that our manufacturing base has dried up – ireland being a case in point – exporting our services represents a new way of enhancing trade within europe. however, for this, europe must have standards when it comes to qualifications. so far the failure of member states to agree on the rules for this matter is limiting our ability to sell these same services across borders. for the individuals involved it is restricting the free movement of labour. i agree with my colleague, mep grech, that member states are not showing enough respect in particular for the information system they use and somebody needs to be held responsible in each member state for the same. i urge the commission to identify and tackle the obstacles which are preventing the realisation of the single market in this instance.
mr president, like my colleagues, i too have been concerned by some of the trends outlined in the internal document which, in the grand old scheme of things, was leaked recently. the area that is causing me most concern is the suggestion to deprioritise the competiveness objectives. these competiveness objectives have been vital in creating rural and regional development – particularly the technology parks, which have helped to drive the smart economy and will be needed more so into the future. they have also helped with cohesion within, as well as across, regions. i think it is very important to realise that there are huge poverty gaps within regions. this is not always recognised, and i think in particular the criterion of basing everything on national gdp is an erroneous measurement. it should be more on purchasing power, and certainly the purchasing power within some regions is far lower than the national average. i hope these things will be addressed in the forthcoming white paper, as well as the opportunities that exist in synergies between research, innovation and regional development. like my colleague, i too would be concerned about rural development policy – albeit not as part of the cohesion policy, more in line with the cap – but at the same time it is absolutely vital that it is not squeezed in any future proposals because rural development, and particularly the family farm, is vital for the social infrastructure of society. finally, i just want to say also that more needs to be done in combating fraud. i know there have been improvements in recent years, but we must ensure that the money which is given by the eu goes to where it is supposed to go, so that we can have better opportunities for people right across the european union.
i scríbhinn. − thug mé tacaíocht do bhuiséad an aontais eorpaigh don bhliain airgeadais 2010. cuirim fáilte ar leith roimh an gcomhaontú leis an gcomhairle a thabharfaidh cúnamh breise de eur 300 milliún d’fheirmeoirí déiríochta. ba é ceann d’éilimh na parlaiminte ag na cainteanna faoi bhuiséad 2010 ciste déiríochta ar luach eur 300 milliún a chur ar fáil chun aghaidh a thabhairt ar an ngéarchéim déiríochta. cé gur aontaigh an coimisiún leis an togra i dtosach, ní raibh sí ag iarraidh ach eur 280 milliún a chur sa chiste sin. cabhróidh an t-airgead seo go mór le feirmeoirí déiríochta a raibh tionchar tromchúiseach ag praghsanna ísle an tsamhraidh orthu agus a bhfuil fadhbanna leachtachta acu. chomh maith leis sin, fearaim fáilte roimh an tacaíocht atá sa bhuiséad d’eagraíocht na gcluichí oilimpeacha speisialta agus don iarratas uathu siúd ar mhaoiniú do chluichí oilimpeacha speisialta na heorpa in vársá in 2010 agus do chluichí oilimpeacha speisialta an domhain san aithin in 2011. tá eur 6 mhilliún leithdháilte ar na cluichí oilimpeacha speisialta, agus foráil ann do mhaoiniú breise a chur ar fáil in 2011.
author. − mr president, i welcome the attention drawn to the appalling and consistent crushing of human rights in azerbaijan: no freedom for the media, dozens of journalists jailed, some beaten, some even killed in recent years. but we must ask why the regime of mr aliyev is implementing such horrific repression. the reason of course is to try and cover up the regime of enormous corruption which exists in that country. the ruling elite has enriched itself fabulously, especially in the oil and gas industry, while 90% of the population of azerbaijan live in acute poverty and have seen no benefit from the natural resources of their country. western governments and multinational corporations act, as usual, with great hypocrisy in this regard. they routinely deal with the regime to facilitate doing business, and the corporations make massive profits from the exploitation of the natural resources properly belonging to the people of azerbaijan. western governments should be asked why they do not demand that the oil-well be used to transform the lives of the people, instead of propping up this regime. members of the european parliament, quite correctly, are harsh in their condemnation of the crushing of the right to dissent and to demonstrate freely in azerbaijan, and i cannot let this opportunity pass also to condemn the disgraceful repression of protests by the danish police in copenhagen in recent days, who arrested up to 1 000 entirely peaceful protestors, handcuffed them and left them lying for hours in the cold. when i protested and demanded the release of some cwi colleagues, the police themselves told me that it was preventive arrest, preventive detention. what goes for azerbaijan should certainly go for a member state of the european union as well.
